=[[toc]]= 

=Contacts= 

**Aff stuff: jonassplacitis@gmail.com**

**Neg stuff: thenop1@nths219.org**

=Postal Service Affirmative= 
==Contention 1 is Ruralism== 

Current USPS framework is key to sustaining civic communities
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Slentz & McCann 09</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Harvey - earned his MA in Business and Economics at the University of Central Missouri, and JD in Law at the Brandeis College of Law at the University of Louisville Joseph - Dean and Professor of Management in the Davis College of Business at Jacksonville University. He was a member of the Latin America & Caribbean Advisory Board affiliated with The Carter Presidential Center and a Senior Research Fellow in the Center for Leadership & Career Studies while teaching at Emory University. He earned his MA and PhD in Business & Applied Economics at The Wharton School. “UNITEDSTATES POSTAL SERVICE FUTURE BUSINESS MODEL” [[http://about.usps.com/future-business-model/mccannslentz.pdf]]</span>
Finally, U.S. Post Offices have served a role linking the community
AND
presents both significant opportunities for cost reduction and significant opportunities for revenue generation.

And specifically, that’s key to rural communities and thus ruralism – without it, they collapse
Hardie 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter - Executive Director at Campaign for Stronger Democracy, Harvard graduate "The post office as a democratic institution" [[http://strongerdemocracy.org/category/deliberative-democracy/]]</span>
At first glance, it’s probably easy to overlook the post office as being a
AND
for by stamps and shipping fees), it still must answer to Congress.

Ruralist policies perpetuate dangerous stereotypes that constitute violence towards the rural body. Governmental policy is exclusive and ignores the needs and struggles of the minority rural dweller and spills over to other forms of discrimination
Debra Lyn <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Basset</span>, Associate Professor of Law, Michigan State University, “Ruralism,” Iowa Law Review, January, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2003</span> (Lexis)
Our society has a "love-hate" relationship with its rural n1 communities
AND
ruralism serves to exacerbate the impact of other ¶ forms of discrimination. n28

The government treats rural areas as the nation’s trash can causing environmental destruction
Debra Lyn <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Basset</span>, Associate Professor of Law, Michigan State University, “Ruralism,” Iowa Law Review, January, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2003</span> (Lexis)
Ruralism also surfaces in the environmental law arena. The sites selected for undesirable land
AND
air pollution, water pollution, and pesticide contamination in rural areas.233

Post Office key to education in rural areas
USPS 8 united states postal service - no this evidence isn't biased, all done through interviews with local populations, most of our evidence is quotes. shut up. "Universal Service and the Postal Monopoly: A Brief History" [[https://about.usps.com/who-we-are/postal-history/universal-service-postal-monopoly-history.pdf]]
Although one Kansas farmer expressed concern that rural people would become lazy if they did
AND
the cases of suicide and insanity among farmers’ wives fully 50 percent.”26
==Contention 2 is Warming== 

USPS electrification key to hydrogen fuel cell tech
USPS OIG 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Office of Inspector General) “U. S. Postal Service Electrification of Delivery Vehicles” [[https://www.uspsoig.gov/foia_files/da-wp-09-001.pdfV2G]]</span>
The Postal Service owns and operates the largest civilian vehicle fleet in the world including
AND
interested in working with the Postal Service to further vehicle to grid capabilities.

Incentives to the Postal Service are key for hydrogen infrastructure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Melendez and Milbrandt 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Margo, senior project Leader at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory &AneliaMilbrandt, member of the International and Environmental Studies Group in the Strategic Energy Analysis and Applications Center., January 2006, “Hydrogen Infrastructure Transition Analysis”, http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/38351.pdf)</span>
This shows that, given the right incentives, federal facilities could provide a good
AND
, which could use hydrogen, and is dispersed widely across the country.

The plan instantly stimulates demand for hydrogen tech
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Melendez and Milbrandt 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Margo, senior project Leader at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory &AneliaMilbrandt, member of the International and Environmental Studies Group in the Strategic Energy Analysis and Applications Center., January 2006, “Hydrogen Infrastructure Transition Analysis”, http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/38351.pdf)</span>
Because the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) operates roughly170,000
AND
key to transition from a geographic, as well as logistic, standpoint.

Warming is real and anthropogenic – causes extinction and access every impact
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kaku 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michio, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf)</span>
By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in full
AND
methane gas to be released, causing a runaway cycle of global warming.

All authors who doubt warming do so because they are epistemologically and psychologically flawed
<span class="Heading4Char">Gardiner 12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Beth, Freelance journalist, citing: Robert Gifford, psychologist at the University of Victoria in British Columbia who studies the behavioral barriers to combating climate change, Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication, specializes in the psychology of risk perception, “We’re All Climate-Change Idiots”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/22/opinion/sunday/were-all-climate-change-idiots.html?_r=0]], 7/22/12)</span>
CLIMATE CHANGE is staring us in the face. The science is clear, and
AND
something they highly value, so they often dismiss evidence of the risk.

Hydrogen is necessary to make other renewables viable – it stores energy from wind and solar so they can be used all day long
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lokey6</span> (Elizabeth Lokey, Ph.D. Student in Environmental Studies, The University of Colorado, A Critical Review of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 March 23 2006) ScienceDirect
Despite the lack of a coherent goal and roadmap for the entire EPAct of 2005
AND
increases their value and could help supplement growing baseline electrical needs[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319906003752#bib5|[5]]].

Hydrogen cars will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by a billion tons
Paul <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>Thompson, Paul. Evening Standard [London (UK)] 16 Sep 2009 “Obama's greener cars 'will reduce CO2 by 1 bn tons”
PRESIDENT Barack Obama signaled the end of gas guzzling cars in America with a carrot
AND
apply to vehicles imported from Germany and Japan as well as American cars.

CO2 emission from cars is the main source of warming
Zachary<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shahan</span>20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10 </span>ZacharyShahan, former Executive Director of a non-profit organization promoting sustainable development and clean transportation,“Cars Cause Global Warming More than Planes, Study Finds” August 9, 2010
It is rather well known now that transportation is one of the leading causes of
AND
bus or subway or train today in order to help stop global warming.

USFG action is key to getting other countries on board to stop warming
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sunstein 13</span> (Cass R., Felix Frankfurter Professor of law at Harvard University, Bloomberg View columnist, the former administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, “U.S. Should Act Unilaterally on Climate Change”, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-s-should-act-unilaterally-on-climate-change.html]], 1/23/13)
As his second inaugural address made clear, U.S. President Barack Obama
AND
that will ultimately be in the interest of the world as a whole.
==Contention 3 is Solvency== 

The plan saves the postal service
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Davis 13</span> (Scott R., Infrastructure Engineer at PennLive, “Postal Service needs to Go Green”, [[http://scottrdavis.com/political/108-postal-service-needs-to-go-green]], 2/6/13)
Only 10 days after raising the postage stamp rate to .46 cents, theUnited
AND
around, stimulate the economy and reduce our nation’s need on foreign oil.

Fleet transition quick, feasible, and profitable – solves current costs
USPS OIG 9(Office of Inspector General) “U. S. Postal Service Electrification of Delivery Vehicles” https://www.uspsoig.gov/foia_files/da-wp-09-001.pdfV2G
We studied the operational feasibility of current EV technology and found that large-scale
AND
-mile distance requirement. Actual ranges achieved were up to 42 miles.

Debating energy policy joins members of different fields and philosophies to create a consciousness shift towards sustainable environmental policy – how students are trained matters immensely to public policy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Crist 4</span> (Eileen, Professor at Virginia Tech in the Department of Science and Technology, “Against the social construction of nature and wilderness”, Environmental Ethics 26;1, p 13-6, http://www.sts.vt.edu/faculty/crist/againstsocialconstruction.pdf)
Yet, constructivist analyses of "nature" favor remaining in the comfort zone of
AND
the world at an hour that is pressingly calling us to change it.

Switch side debate empirically inculcates portable skills that lead to better energy policy – it gives voice to buried arguments and challenges bias and institutional affiliations
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mitchell 10</span> (Gordon R, Associate Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Communication at the University of Pittsburgh, where he also directs the William Pitt Debating Union, “SWITCH-SIDE DEBATING MEETS DEMAND-DRIVEN RHETORIC OF SCIENCE”, [[http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/Mitchell2010.pdf]])
An additional dimension of nuance emerging from this avenue of analysis pertains to the precise
AND
paradigms of policy planning with situated, contingent judgments informed by reflective deliberation.

Switch side debate over energy policy is a reflexive forum that facilitates effective decision-making and deliberation
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mitchell 10</span> (Gordon R, Associate Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Communication at the University of Pittsburgh, where he also directs the William Pitt Debating Union, “SWITCH-SIDE DEBATING MEETS DEMAND-DRIVEN RHETORIC OF SCIENCE”, [[http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/Mitchell2010.pdf]])
Yet the picture grows more complex when one considers what is happening over at the
AND
where debating exercises are designed to facilitate, not frustrate, deliberative goals.

Taking action against warming represents an opportunity to rebuild progressive politics for a better society – we must set aside differences based on identity in favor of a broad-based coalition
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Smith 10</span> Brendan, co-founder of Labor Network for Sustainability, 11-23, “Fighting Doom: The New Politics of Climate Change,” Common Dreams, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/11/23-1
I admit I have arrived late to the party. Only recently have I begun
AND
said to me, "God help us, I hope you're right."
==Plan Text== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in electric vehicle transportation infrastructure for the United States Postal Service in the United States.

=China Coop Affirmative= 
==Contention 1 is Warming== 

The U.S. and China are the MAIN cause of global warming – this is a relevant question for stopping the problem and people are looking to the U.S. to take the lead on agreements
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Blakemore 12</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bill, Veteran foreign and domestic correspondent, began focusing on extinction and global warming in 2004, and hosts ABC's Nature's Edge, has won most major broadcast journalism awards, some a number of times. He also writes and lectures on the journalistic profession, the Many Psychologies of Global Warming, citing: NASA Goddard Institute Space Studies, “Who’s ‘Most to Blame’ for Global Warming?”, [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/technology/2012/07/whos-most-to-blame-for-global-warming/]], 7/22/12)</span>
Who’s most to blame for global warming? Nobody meant it to happen. But
AND
an issue in negotiations as the effects of manmade global warming grow worse.

Warming causes extinction – decreasing U.S. and China emissions is integral to any strategy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brown et al 11</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Lester, President of Earth Policy Institute, Rev. Sally G. Bingham, President, The Regeneration Project & Interfaith Power & Light Brent Blackwelder, President Emeritus, Friends of the Earth David Blittersdorf, President/CEO, AllEarth Renewables, Inc. Jan Blittersdorf, President/CEO, NRG Systems, Inc. Michael Brune, Executive Director, Sierra Club Lisa Daniels, Executive Director, Windustry Brock Evans, President, Endangered Species Coalition Ross Gelbspan, Author Paul Hawken, Author Randy Hayes, Executive Director, Foundation Earth & Founder, Rainforest Action Network Courtney Hight, Co-Director, Energy Action Coalition Julia Butterfly Hill, Co-Founder, The Engage Network* Chuck Kutscher, Former Chair, American Solar Energy Society & Principal Engineer, National Renewable Energy Laboratory* Eric Lombardi, Executive Director, Eco-Cycle Bill McKibben, Founder, 350.or Erich Pica, President, Friends of the Earth Phil Radford, Executive Director, Greenpeace Kieran Suckling, Executive Director, Center for Biological Diversity Rebecca Tarbotton, Executive Director, Rainforest Action Network Mike Tidwell, Director, Chesapeake Climate Action Network James A. Walker, Former President, American Wind Energy Association Tom Weis, President, Climate Crisis Solutions, “‘US and China must reduce emissions 80 percent by 2020’”, [[http://strongopinions.org/reduce-emissions-80-percent-2020/]], 1/19/11)</span>
Dear President Barack Obama & President Hu Jintao: It is time to publicly acknowledge
AND
to act, their future grows more perilous. We await your response.

Warming is real and anthropogenic – causes extinction and access every impact
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kaku 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michio, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf)</span>
By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in full
AND
methane gas to be released, causing a runaway cycle of global warming.

All authors who doubt warming do so because they are epistemologically and psychologically flawed
<span class="Heading4Char">Gardiner 12</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Beth, Freelance journalist, citing: Robert Gifford, psychologist at the University of Victoria in British Columbia who studies the behavioral barriers to combating climate change, Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication, specializes in the psychology of risk perception, “We’re All Climate-Change Idiots”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/22/opinion/sunday/were-all-climate-change-idiots.html?_r=0]], 7/22/12)</span>
CLIMATE CHANGE is staring us in the face. The science is clear, and
AND
something they highly value, so they often dismiss evidence of the risk.
==Contention 2 is Relations== 

Relations are decreasing now – on the brink
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ikenson 13</span> (Daniel J., director of Cato’s Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, focusing on WTO disputes, regional trade agreements, U.S.-China trade issues, steel and textile trade policies, and antidumping reform, “Soured U.S.-China Relationship Approaches Inflection Point”, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/danikenson/2013/01/29/reading-the-tea-leaves-on-u-s-china-economic-relations/]], 1/29/13)
The claim that the U.S.-China relationship will be the 21st century’s
AND
portrayed as losing at trade and it was losing because China perpetually cheats.

Leadership transitions mean our relationship is fundamentally uncertain now
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CSIS 12</span> (Center for Strategic and International Studies, “U.S.-China Relations and the 18th Party Congress: Uncertainty Amidst Political Transition”, [[http://csis.org/event/us-china-relations-and-18th-party-congress-uncertainty-amidst-political-transition]], 9/26/12)
With a once-in-a-decade leadership transition in China and a
AND
the future course of the most important bilateral relationship in the 21st century.

China relations check Taiwan war – now is key
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Asia Sentinel 13</span> (Asia Sentinel news service, quoting: Former US diplomat Roy Stapleton, “US-China Relations: Be Wary of Rivalry”, [[http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=5197&Itemid=171]], 2/21/13)
With China's leadership in transition and incoming Secretary of State John Kerry heading a new
AND
it forthrightly, it will be more difficult to manage in the future."

Relations are the most important factor
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shirk 7</span> (Susan, former deputy assistant secretary for China, U.S. State Department, CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, 2007, p. 184.)
The ideal solution from the standpoint of the leaders in Beijing is to solve the
AND
in the foreseeable future and its deterioration will be hard to stop."'

Causes nuclear war – draws in every major power
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunkovic 9</span>(Lee J. Hunkovic, Professor @ The American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America,” 2009, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf)
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate
AND
outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.

It’s the most likely scenario
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Johnson 1</span> (Chalmers, political science professor, University of California at Berkeley, THE NATION, May 14, 2001, p. online.)
Taiwan, whose status constitutes he still incomplete last act of the Chinese civil war
AND
forward-deployed US forces on China’s borders have virtually no deterrent effect.

A new Cold War between the U.S. and China is coming now – relations are slipping – causes direct war between U.S. and China
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Pravda 13 </span>(Pravda.ru, Russian global news service, “USA considers scenario of war with China”, [[http://english.pravda.ru/world/asia/28-01-2013/123594-usa_china_war-0/]], 1/28/13)
The fact that the relations between China and the U.S. have been
AND
strong foundation in the form of organizations that China is interested in joining.

U.S.-China relations are key to check North Korea conflict
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zhu 10</span> (Zhiqun, Chair in East Asian politics, Associate professor in political science and international relations at Bucknell University, The Korea Times “North Korea Tests US-China relations” [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/02/198_77935.html]], 12/13/11)
Few in China still consider North Korea an ally. Secret cables made open by
AND
untying the North Korea knot and achieving long-lasting peace in Asia.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">War on the Korean peninsula causes extinction and turns every impact</span>
**Hayes & Hamel-Green 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])</span>
The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to
AND
threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.

War on the Korean Peninsula is close to escalation now
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AP 13</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Associated Press news service, citing: </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Bruce Klingner, a former U.S. intelligence official now at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea specialist at Seoul's Dongguk University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Victor Cha, a former Asia adviser to President George W. Bush</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Ellen Kim at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank in Washington, “History shows NKorean pattern: wait, then attack”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/history-shows-nkorean-pattern-wait-then-attack-112646404.html]], 3/12/13)</span>
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — Recent Korean history reveals a sobering possibility
AND
North Korean provocation in the coming weeks," Cha and Kim wrote Thursday.

Relations are no longer based in power politics – relations can work to check war and preserve global stability
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brzezinski 13</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zbigniew, political scientist and geostrategist, former U.S. National Security Advisor during the Carter administration, Professor of American Foreign Policy at John Hopkins U in Advanced Natural Studies, Scholar at Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The US-China relationship is vital to global stability. Good thing it isn't doomed”, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Global-Viewpoint/2013/0218/The-US-China-relationship-is-vital-to-global-stability.-Good-thing-it-isn-t-doomed]], 2/18/13)</span>
Today, many anxious voices fear that the emerging American-Chinese duopoly must inherently
AND
, or weak and full of suspicion, will affect the whole world.
==Contention 3 is Solvency== 

Status quo investment is insufficient – we haven’t invested in __years__ – China will emulate the transportation infrastructure we do – solves relations and warming
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ACUS 8</span> (The Atlantic Council of the United States, also quotes the US/China Energy & Environment Technology Center at Tsinghua and Tulane Universities, “REPORT ON U.S.-China Cooperation on Clean and Efﬁcient Transportation”, [[http://www.acus.org/files/publication_pdfs/1/Final%20Report%20on%20Clean%20and%20Efficient%20Transportation.pdf]], 5/22/8)
On May 7, 2008 the Atlantic Council of the United States held a meeting
AND
between those responsible for other sectors and functions impacted by choices being made.

The plan __solidifies__ relations – spills over to all areas
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ACUS 8</span> (The Atlantic Council of the United States, also quotes the US/China Energy & Environment Technology Center at Tsinghua and Tulane Universities, “REPORT ON U.S.-China Cooperation on Clean and Efﬁcient Transportation”, [[http://www.acus.org/files/publication_pdfs/1/Final%20Report%20on%20Clean%20and%20Efficient%20Transportation.pdf]], 5/22/8)
The Framework aims to focus on extensive cooperation over a ten-year period to
AND
development coupled with environmental protection leading to greater economic prosperity for both countries.
==Plan Text== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the transportation infrastructure outlined in the Task Force on Clean and Efficient Transportation within the U.S.-China Ten Year Energy and Environment Cooperation Framework.


=Port Security Affirmative= 
==Plan Texts== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.**

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.**

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for the Multi-Modal Passive Detection System for port security in the United States.**

==Advantages== 

===Organized Crime - IHSA=== 

**Organized crime smuggling through ports is increasing in the status quo**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">SLD 12</span> (Second Line of Defense focuses on analysis regarding the creation and sustainment of military and security capability. “THE GROWING THREAT OF ORGANIZED CRIME TO PORT SECURITY” 6-28-12. http://www.sldinfo.com/the-growing-threat-of-organized-crime-to-port-security/)
Organized criminals might seek to infiltrate government and commercial busi­ness and seek change
AND
its reach and its scope of the types of il­licit products.

**Port vulnerabilities make shipping containers a key source of income for organized crime in the status quo**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Global Security 11</span> (“Port Security Systems.” 7-13-11. http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/systems/ports.htm)
Organized crime recognized the potential for big business. Containers, stacked in terminals,
AND
, persons whose employment entitles them access to the cargo that is stolen.

**We are currently accelerating towards extinction because of bio-diversity loss – the tipping point is now**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thorbes 6/6</span> (Carol, citing 18 independent environmental scientists and a study conducted by these scientists, one of which is Arne Mooers, Professor of Biodiversity at SFU, “Study predicts imminent irreversible planetary collapse”, [[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2012-06/sfu-spi060412.php]], 6/6/12)
Study predicts imminent irreversible planetary collapse Using scientific theories, toy ecosystem modeling and
AND
ecosystems and biodiversity to reach a critical threshold of existence in our lifetime.

**Trafficking in exotic animals is the one of the largest sectors of organized crime – large profits provide an incentive**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Delaney 9 </span>Joan Delaney, 3/18, Wildlife Smuggling Nets Big Bucks For Organized Crime, The Epoch Times, [[@http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/13914/|__http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/13914/__]]
Humming birds bound and stuffed in cigarette packets, snakes and tortoises inside a hollowed
AND
turtles; West African songbirds—the list of smuggled species is endless.

**Trafficking exotic animals leads to rapid loss of biodiversity – disrupts habitats**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kunich1 (</span>John Charles, Associate Professor of Law, Roger Williams University School of Law, ARTICLE: Preserving the Womb of the Unknown Species With Hotspots Legislation, 52)
Extinction involves two main variables, geographic range and population size, which both must
AND
species intoextinction, such as with the passenger pigeon and the dodo. n8

**Biodiversity loss means extinction – adaptation is possible as long as we MAINTAIN biodiversity –** __**means we control**__ u**niqueness – all their evidence should be rejected because they are INCAPABLE of thinking in the long term**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Knight 12</span> (Matthew, CNN News Service, siting International Union for Conservation of Nature, “Extinction threat a call to world leaders at Rio summit,” 6/20/2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/19/world/rio-red-list-extinction-species/index.html]])
The[[@http://www.iucn.org/| IUCN]] assessed a total of 63,837 plant and animal species around the
AND
hasn't been either priority or resource given to these tasks," he said.

**Exotic animals are now the MAIN THREAT to bio-diversity – they can easily adapt and outcompete native species**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weeks 12</span> (Jennifer, quoting Harvard Biology Professor E.O. Wilson, “Native Species Suffer When Invasives Thrive”, [[http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2012021700]], 2/17/12)
Invasive species and endangered ones are two sides of the same coin: When invasives
AND
have been disturbed — attributes that help them out-compete native species.

**Russian criminal organizations are inter-woven into the organized crime of the United States**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Haas 6</span> (Yahoo News, Citing: J.O Fickenauer Director of the National Center of Justice, “Russian Organized Crime in America”, [[http://voices.yahoo.com/russian-organized-crime-america-100851.html]], 10/28/6)
Perhaps if Russia had not lost the Cold War and split into various Republics,
AND
next generation, well-trained in "business", has greater ambitions.

**That causes Russian instability, nuclear launch and the sale of nuclear weapons**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ciluffo 97</span> (CSIS Watch, Number 188, October 10, 1997, [[http://www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html|www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html]])
"If the forces of organized crime are not stymied, Russia will complete its
AND
even an accidental nuclear weapons launch is at an all-time high."


===Drug Trafficking - Districts=== 

**Cargo in ports are a vital part of drug trafficking**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Eski 11</span> (Yarin, University of Glasgow. “‘Port of call’: Towards a criminology of port security.” Criminology and Criminal Justice 11:415. 7-18-11. SagePub)
As mentioned previously, international drugs trafficking has been affiliated with the maritime realm for
AND
things easier for those using the port’ (Zaitch, 2002b: 243).

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The U.S. is the root cause of the drug trade**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DAT 10 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(Drug Addiction Treatment drug news service focused on addiction and crime, citing: the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration and Hillary Clinton, “United States Drives Illicit Drug Demand”, </span>[[http://www.drugaddictiontreatment.com/addiction-in-the-news/drug-crimes/united-states-drives-illicit-drug-demand/]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, 3/18/10)</span>
As more and more media attention is focused on the drug wars occurring in Mexico
AND
as the user continues to demand product, it will still be delivered.

**Cutting off the supply to the U.S. solves – serves as a disincentive to produce drugs**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">WC 12</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Latin American Program, “DRUG TRAFFICKING AND ORGANIZED CRIME IN THE AMERICAS”, </span>[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/BB%20Final.pdf]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, 8/12)</span>
The Globalization of Drug consumption Many Latin American political leaders have long argued that if
AND
. Some $37 billion per year may be spent on cocaine alone.

**Cocaine cultivation is causing mass deforestation and biodiversity loss in the Amazon**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Science Daily 11</span> (Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11 [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/01/110128144723.htm]])
ScienceDaily (Jan. 29, 2011) — Scientists from Stony Brook University are
AND
for the global cocaine market has been quantified across South America's biodiversity hotpots.

**Deforestation is the main cause of global warming – outweighs global emissions**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">SA 12</span> (Scientific American news service, citing: Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), a non-profit green group, “Deforestation and Its Extreme Effect on Global Warming”, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=deforestation-and-global-warming]], 11/13/12)
From logging agricultural production and other economic activities, deforestation adds more atmospheric CO2 than
AND
, pasture and cropland drive people to cut down forests,” adds EDF.

**Warming is real and anthropogenic – causes extinction and access every impact**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kaku 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michio, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf)</span>
By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in full
AND
methane gas to be released, causing a runaway cycle of global warming.

**All authors who doubt warming do so because they are epistemologically and psychologically flawed**
<span class="Heading4Char">Gardiner 12</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Beth, Freelance journalist, citing: Robert Gifford, psychologist at the University of Victoria in British Columbia who studies the behavioral barriers to combating climate change, Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication, specializes in the psychology of risk perception, “We’re All Climate-Change Idiots”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/22/opinion/sunday/were-all-climate-change-idiots.html?_r=0]], 7/22/12)</span>
CLIMATE CHANGE is staring us in the face. The science is clear, and
AND
something they highly value, so they often dismiss evidence of the risk.

===Drug Trafficking - HoFlo=== 

**Cargo in ports are a vital part of drug trafficking**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Eski 11</span> (Yarin, University of Glasgow. “‘Port of call’: Towards a criminology of port security.” Criminology and Criminal Justice 11:415. 7-18-11. SagePub)
As mentioned previously, international drugs trafficking has been affiliated with the maritime realm for
AND
things easier for those using the port’ (Zaitch, 2002b: 243).

**US demand drives drug trafficking**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">President’s Commission on Organized Crime 9</span>(“America’s Habit: Drug Abuse, Drug Trafficking & Organized Crime,” Schaffer Library of Drug Policy, [[http://www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/govpubs/amhab/amhabc7.htm]])
A clear example of the relationship of supply and demand is provided by the case
AND
a really tiny role compared to the total consumption of the United States.

**Cocaine cultivation is causing mass deforestation and biodiversity loss in the Amazon**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Science Daily 11</span> (Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11 [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/01/110128144723.htm]])
ScienceDaily (Jan. 29, 2011) — Scientists from Stony Brook University are
AND
for the global cocaine market has been quantified across South America's biodiversity hotpots.

**Curbing Amazon deforestation key to stop warming**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Science Daily 7</span> (“Confirmed: Deforestation Plays Critical Climate Change Role” May 11, 2007. http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/05/070511100918.htm)
New research confirms that avoiding deforestation can play a key role in reducing future greenhouse
AND
the release of the equivalent of six years of global fossil fuel emissions.”

**Warming guarantees multiple positive feedbacks triggering extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, 8/11http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told
AND
warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

===***Terrorism - TOC***=== 


Plan Text
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in cargo scanning transportation infrastructure in the United States.


Status quo port security is insufficient – screening can’t detect radiation – new tech is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13)</span>
Cargo containers arriving at the 22 maritime ports through which the greatest volume of containerized
AND
but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.”



Despite attempts at cracking down Al Qaeda is branching out – terrorism is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Evans 13</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, quoting: Derek Chollet, assistant secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs and Michael Sheehan, assistant secretary of Defense for Special Operations/Low Intensity Conflict and Interdependent Capabilities, “Al Qaeda growing threat in Middle East, Obama officials say”, [[http://freebeacon.com/the-tide-of-war-is-rising/]], 4/10/13)</span>
Defense and military officials testified that al Qaeda is gaining a foothold in several areas
AND
and watch and figure out reasons why we can’t intervene,” McCain said.


Terrorists have the motive to attack
A. The anti-muslim video
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 12</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans slain in Libya this week
AND
here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”


B. The assassination of Bin Laden
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LA Times 12 </span>(Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of Osama bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S. "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,
Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the
AND
militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants.


Nuclear terrorism is extremely probable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jaspal 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zafar Nawaz Associate Professor at the School of Politics and International Relations, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan 12, citing: The Fissile Material Working Group, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), “Nuclear/Radiological Terrorism: Myth or Reality?”, Journal of Political Studies, Vol. 19, Issue - 1, 2012, 91:111)</span>
The misperception, miscalculation and above all ignorance of the ruling elite about security puzzles
AND
the possibility that terrorist groups could acquire fissile material from the rogue states.


Constructing or getting a nuclear weapon is easy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz 9</span>(Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July,[[http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]])
In much the same way that the Information Revolution has enhanced the methods and capabilities
AND
controls, and allows easy access, high speed, and low cost.


Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 12</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service.


A terrorist attack DESTROYS the global economy and trade
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 6</span> (Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards”, 3/9, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074)
It is just a question of time before terrorists with potentially more destructive weapons breach
AND
U.S. Homeland Security priority, but an urgent global priority.


Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


Trade solves all war – empirics and analysis prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griswold 11</span> (Daniel, 2011, Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf]])
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.


A nuclear terrorist attack causes a psychological break down – the world will be fundamentally distinct post-attack
Bostrom et al 8(Nick-Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at
AND
Global Catastrophic Risks”, Oxford University Press, p.430-31)
Unlike the more tangible physical and economic effects of nuclear terrorism, it is almost
AND
the demise of the nation-state as we know it (1957).


An attack kills the South Korean economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, SOUTH KOREA AND THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT keynote address, 3/27/12)
2. Economic Impact: what would the impact on South Korea be of a
AND
recession that would almost certainly follow in the wake of the nuclear attack.


That causes war with North Korea
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ejaz 6</span> (Manzur, World Bank Affiliate, Economist Pak Base http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)
South Korea economic collapse gathered steam when Moody's rating agency downgraded the South Korean debt
AND
instability there, and that can have all kinds of national security implications."


That turns every impact and causes extinction
**Hayes & Hamel-Green 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter & Michael Hamel-Green, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, a member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia” Nautilus, Special Report, 10-001: January 5th, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf] </span>
The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments
AND
by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted.


The Korean peninsula is comparatively the most dangerous hot spot in the status quo
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Telegraph 10/2</span> (news service, citing North Korean Deputy Vice Minister Pak Kil-yon addressing the United Nations General Assembly, “North and South Korea 'on the verge of nuclear war'”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/9580536/North-and-South-Korea-on-the-verge-of-nuclear-war.html]], 10/2/12)
Pak Kil-yon, Pyongyang's vice-foreign minister, put the blame for
AND
are unhappy with the Lee government's hard-line policies towards the North.


Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department last month faulted
AND
. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)


A recent influenza strain was created – terrorists will use it as a bioweapon – this is comparatively the worst impact
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prado 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html)</span>
As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. In the
AND
Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT.¶ Then came the year 2001.


A port attack shuts down naval power
Watts 5 [CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S
AND
before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience?


Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf
The U.S. Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American
AND
as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources.


The U.S. navy’s missile defense makes escalation of war impossible
**Carey 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship, John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis)
Ronald Reagan's vision that the United States would one day need a missile defense system
AND
orders to interceptors at-sea; or in the U.S.


Recent tests prove success
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DON 10/25</span> (Department of the Navy, United States of America, “Ballistic Missile Defense System Successfully Conducts Largest Missile Defense Flight Test In History”, [[http://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=70345]], 10/25/12)
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii (NNS) -- The Missile Defense Agency (MDA)
AND
hit-to-kill intercepts in 71 flight test attempts since 2001.


Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 8</span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)
It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime terrorism, to the ¶ extent
AND
with extremist Islamist intent¶and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.


Terrorists will attack by the end of this year – it’s the consensus of experts
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S.
AND
in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”


Organized crime smuggling through ports is increasing in the status quo
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SLD 12</span> (Second Line of Defense focuses on analysis regarding the creation and sustainment of military and security capability. “THE GROWING THREAT OF ORGANIZED CRIME TO PORT SECURITY” 6-28-12. http://www.sldinfo.com/the-growing-threat-of-organized-crime-to-port-security/)
Organized criminals might seek to infiltrate government and commercial busi­ness and seek change
AND
its reach and its scope of the types of il­licit products.


Russian criminal organizations are inter-woven into the organized crime of the United States
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Haas 6</span> (Yahoo News, Citing: J.O Fickenauer Director of the National Center of Justice, “Russian Organized Crime in America”, [[http://voices.yahoo.com/russian-organized-crime-america-100851.html]], 10/28/6)
Perhaps if Russia had not lost the Cold War and split into various Republics,
AND
next generation, well-trained in "business", has greater ambitions.


That causes Russian instability, nuclear launch and the sale of nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ciluffo 97</span> (CSIS Watch, Number 188, October 10, 1997, [[http://www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html|www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html]])
"If the forces of organized crime are not stymied, Russia will complete its
AND
even an accidental nuclear weapons launch is at an all-time high."


MMPDS technology solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sloane 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Stanton D. Sloane, bachelor’s degree in Professional Studies from Barry University, a master’s degree in Human Resources Management from Pepperdine University, and a Doctor of Management degree from the Weatherhead Business School at Case Western Reserve University, President and Chief Executive Officer of Decision Sciences, Earlier, he was President of Lockheed Martin’s Management/Data Systems, “Cargo Security International: Dr. Stanton D. Sloane of Decision Sciences looks at how passive detection systems can play their part in protecting the global supply chain”, [[http://www.decisionsciencescorp.com/cargo-security-international-dr-stanton-d-sloane-of-decision-sciences-looks-at-how-passive-detection-systems-can-play-their-part-in-protecting-the-global-supply-chain/]], 10/11/12)</span>
In our global, just-in-time economy, even small interruptions in
AND
, the first US Secretary of Homeland Security and former Governor of Pennsylvania.


Only defensive measures resolve terrorism – deterrent measures empirically fail – means their advantage counter-plans will fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CSIS 13</span> (Center for Strategic and International Studies, citing: Meggaen Neely, Researcher for the Project on Nuclear Issues, “Doubting Deterrence of Nuclear Terrorism”, [[http://csis.org/blog/doubting-deterrence-nuclear-terrorism]], 3/21/13)
Although this shift will not make the task of preventing nuclear terrorism easier, recognizing
AND
detonation on American soil and on responding in the event of a detonation.


Obama’s pushing new infrastructure spending now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lederman 3-29 – </span>Josh Lederman, Associated Press, March 29th, 2013, "Obama pitches public works spending to create jobs" www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2013/03/29/obama-to-pitch-infrastructure-investments-in-miami
MIAMI (AP) — Trying to show that the economy remains a top priority
AND
be included in the budget Obama is scheduled to release on April 10.


Their DA links will be about generic investment in transportation—Obama is implementing a plan that increases spending in the status quo
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">White House 2/20 </span>
Office of the Press Secretary, "Fact Sheet: The President's Plan to Make America a Magnet for Jobs by Investing in Infrastructure", Feb 20 2013, www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/02/20/fact-sheet-president-s-plan-make-america-magnet-jobs-investing-infrastru?utm_campaign=GR-20130222-TWiW%20Email&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua
Investing in infrastructure not only makes our roads, bridges, and ports safer and
AND
historic modernization of agency permitting and review regulations, procedures, and policies.




===Terrorism - NDCA=== 





Status quo port security is insufficient – screening can’t detect radiation – new tech is key

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Kimery 13 </span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13) </span>

Cargo containers arriving at the 22 maritime ports through which the greatest volume of containerized

AND

but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.”



Terrorists have the motive to attack

A. The anti-muslim video

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ephron 12</span></span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)

The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans slain in Libya this week

AND

here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”



B. The assassination of Bin Laden

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">LA Times 12 </span></span>(Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)

Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of</span></span> Osama <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S.</span></span> "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,

Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the

AND

militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants.



Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">NPR 12 </span></span>(Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)

As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, the main subject of the summit in

AND

yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.




The black market is still active – despite attempts at cracking down material is being acquired from unknown places

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">AP 12</span></span> (Yahoo News, “Georgia details nuke black market investigations”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/georgia-details-nuke-black-market-investigations-153216292.html]], 12/9/12)

BATUMI, Georgia (AP) — On the gritty side of this casino resort

AND

that a businessman, SoslanOniani, had encouraged them to sell the material.¶



Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Maerli 2k</span></span>(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">-</span></span>2K, p. 111-112.)

A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding crude nuclear weapons production and

AND

and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.




Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">NYT 12</span></span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)

MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing

AND

, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service.




In the charged atmosphere after an attack we would retaliate against Russia – causes all-out war

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ayson 10</span></span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by

AND

for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.




That destroys the environment and causes INSTANT extinction

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Wickersham 11 </span></span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)

Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, humankind still faces the distinct possibility

AND

of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster.



An attack kills the South Korean economy

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Allison 12</span></span> (Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, SOUTH KOREA AND THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT keynote address, 3/27/12)

2. Economic Impact: what would the impact on South Korea be of a

AND

recession that would almost certainly follow in the wake of the nuclear attack.




That causes war with North Korea and collapses the global economy

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Ejaz 6</span></span> (Manzur, World Bank Affiliate, Economist Pak Base http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)

South Korea economic collapse gathered steam when Moody's rating agency downgraded the South Korean debt

AND

instability there, and that can have all kinds of national security implications."




Economic decline causes war

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Royal 10</span></span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict

AND

such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.




War on the peninsula turns every impact and causes extinction

**Hayes & Hamel-Green 10**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> [Peter & Michael Hamel-Green, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, a member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia” Nautilus, Special Report, 10-001: January 5th, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf] </span>

The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments

AND

by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted.




The Korean peninsula is comparatively the most dangerous hot spot in the status quo

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Telegraph 10/2</span></span> (news service, citing North Korean Deputy Vice Minister Pak Kil-yon addressing the United Nations General Assembly, “North and South Korea 'on the verge of nuclear war'”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/9580536/North-and-South-Korea-on-the-verge-of-nuclear-war.html]], 10/2/12)

Pak Kil-yon, Pyongyang's vice-foreign minister, put the blame for

AND

are unhappy with the Lee government's hard-line policies towards the North.






Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">GSN 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9) </span>

The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department last month faulted

AND

. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)





A recent influenza strain was created – terrorists will use it as a bioweapon – this is comparatively the worst impact

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Prado 12</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html) </span>

As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. In the

AND

Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT.¶ Then came the year 2001.



A port attack shuts down naval power

Watts 5 [CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S

AND

before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience?





Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Talor et al. 7</span></span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf

The U.S. Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American

AND

as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources.



The U.S. navy’s missile defense makes escalation of war impossible

**Carey 6**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;"> (</span>Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship, John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis)

Ronald Reagan's vision that the United States would one day need a missile defense system

AND

orders to interceptors at-sea; or in the U.S.




Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Chalk 8</span></span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)

It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime terrorism, to the ¶ extent

AND

with extremist Islamist intent¶and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.



Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Allison 12</span></span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)

Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S.

AND

in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”



Organized crime smuggling through ports is increasing in the status quo

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">SLD 12</span></span> (Second Line of Defense focuses on analysis regarding the creation and sustainment of military and security capability. “THE GROWING THREAT OF ORGANIZED CRIME TO PORT SECURITY” 6-28-12. http://www.sldinfo.com/the-growing-threat-of-organized-crime-to-port-security/)

Organized criminals might seek to infiltrate government and commercial busi­ness and seek change

AND

its reach and its scope of the types of il­licit products.



Russian criminal organizations are inter-woven into the organized crime of the United States

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Haas 6</span></span> (Yahoo News, Citing: J.O Fickenauer Director of the National Center of Justice, “Russian Organized Crime in America”, [[http://voices.yahoo.com/russian-organized-crime-america-100851.html]], 10/28/6)

Perhaps if Russia had not lost the Cold War and split into various Republics,

AND

next generation, well-trained in "business", has greater ambitions.



That causes Russian instability, nuclear launch and the sale of nuclear weapons

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ciluffo 97</span></span> (CSIS Watch, Number 188, October 10, 1997, [[http://www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html|www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html]])

"If the forces of organized crime are not stymied, Russia will complete its

AND

even an accidental nuclear weapons launch is at an all-time high."





===Terrorism - IHSA=== 

**Status quo port security is insufficient – screening can’t detect radiation – new tech is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kimery 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13)</span>
Cargo containers arriving at the 22 maritime ports through which the greatest volume of containerized
AND
but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.”

**Terrorists have the motive to attack**

**A. The anti-muslim video**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans slain in Libya this week
AND
here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”

**B. The assassination of Bin Laden**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LA Times 5/7</span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of Osama bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S. "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,
Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the
AND
militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants.

**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department last month faulted
AND
. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)

**A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Prado 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html)</span>
As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. In the
AND
Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT. Then came the year 2001.

**The information for this strain was released last month – that means it’s a race against time for the aff**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 12/4</span> (Global Security Newswire, “Scientists Air Worries Over Proposed Rules on Avian Influenza Studies”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/scientists-air-worries-over-proposed-rules-bird-flu-studies/]], 12/4/12)
The Obama administration last week rolled out a system to assess the potential benefits and
AND
the dangers of such research outweigh any positive outcome, according to Science.

**Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chalk 8</span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)
It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime terrorism, to the extent
AND
with extremist Islamist intent and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.

**Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S.
AND
in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”

**An attack kills the South Korean economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allison 12</span> (Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, SOUTH KOREA AND THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT keynote address, 3/27/12)
2. Economic Impact: what would the impact on South Korea be of a
AND
recession that would almost certainly follow in the wake of the nuclear attack.

**That causes war with North Korea**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ejaz 6</span> (Manzur, World Bank Affiliate, Economist Pak Base http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)
South Korea economic collapse gathered steam when Moody's rating agency downgraded the South Korean debt
AND
instability there, and that can have all kinds of national security implications."

**That turns every impact and causes extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter & Michael Hamel-Green, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, a member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia” Nautilus, Special Report, 10-001: January 5th, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf] </span>
The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments
AND
by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted.

**The Korean peninsula is comparatively the most dangerous hot spot in the status quo**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Telegraph 10/2</span> (news service, citing North Korean Deputy Vice Minister Pak Kil-yon addressing the United Nations General Assembly, “North and South Korea 'on the verge of nuclear war'”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/9580536/North-and-South-Korea-on-the-verge-of-nuclear-war.html]], 10/2/12)
Pak Kil-yon, Pyongyang's vice-foreign minister, put the blame for
AND
are unhappy with the Lee government's hard-line policies towards the North.


===Terrorism - Long=== 

**Status quo port security is insufficient – new tech is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kimery 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13)</span>
Cargo containers arriving at the 22 maritime ports through which the greatest volume of containerized
AND
but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.”

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NPR 3/26</span> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, the main subject of the summit in
AND
yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.

**The black market is still active – despite attempts at cracking down material is being acquired from unknown places**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AP 12/9</span> (Yahoo News, “Georgia details nuke black market investigations”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/georgia-details-nuke-black-market-investigations-153216292.html]], 12/9/12)
BATUMI, Georgia (AP) — On the gritty side of this casino resort
AND
a businessman, Soslan Oniani, had encouraged them to sell the material.

**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Maerli 2k</span>(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">-</span>2K, p. 111-112.)
A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding crude nuclear weapons production and
AND
and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.

**Terrorists have the motive to attack**

**A. The anti-muslim video**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans slain in Libya this week
AND
here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”

**B. The assassination of Bin Laden**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LA Times 5/7</span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of Osama bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S. "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,
Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the
AND
militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants.

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NYT 6/26</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service.

**Even if the attack fails it causes war with Russia**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by
AND
for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

**That destroys the environment and causes INSTANT extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wickersham 11 </span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)
Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, humankind still faces the distinct possibility
AND
of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster.

**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department last month
AND
Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)

**A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Prado 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html)</span>
As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. In the
AND
Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT. Then came the year 2001.

**The information for this strain was released last month – that means it’s a race against time for the aff**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 12/4</span> (Global Security Newswire, “Scientists Air Worries Over Proposed Rules on Avian Influenza Studies”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/scientists-air-worries-over-proposed-rules-bird-flu-studies/]], 12/4/12)
The Obama administration last week rolled out a system to assess the potential benefits and
AND
the dangers of such research outweigh any positive outcome, according to Science.

**A port attack shuts down naval power**
Watts 5 [CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S
AND
before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience?

**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Talor et al. 7</span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf
The U.S. Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American
AND
as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources.

**The U.S. navy’s missile defense makes escalation of war impossible**
Carey 6<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship, John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis)
Ronald Reagan's vision that the United States would one day need a missile defense system
AND
orders to interceptors at-sea; or in the U.S.

**Recent tests prove success**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DON 10/25</span> (Department of the Navy, United States of America, “Ballistic Missile Defense System Successfully Conducts Largest Missile Defense Flight Test In History”, [[http://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=70345]], 10/25/12)
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii (NNS) -- The Missile Defense Agency (MDA)
AND
hit-to-kill intercepts in 71 flight test attempts since 2001.

**Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chalk 8</span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)
It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime terrorism, to the extent
AND
with extremist Islamist intent and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.

**Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S.
AND
in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”

===Terrorism - Short=== 

**Status quo port security is insufficient – new tech is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kimery 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13)</span>
Cargo containers arriving at the 22 maritime ports through which the greatest volume of containerized
AND
but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.”

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NPR 3/26</span> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, the main subject of the summit in
AND
yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.

**The black market is still active – despite attempts at cracking down material is being acquired from unknown places**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AP 12/9</span> (Yahoo News, “Georgia details nuke black market investigations”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/georgia-details-nuke-black-market-investigations-153216292.html]], 12/9/12)
BATUMI, Georgia (AP) — On the gritty side of this casino resort
AND
a businessman, Soslan Oniani, had encouraged them to sell the material.

**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Maerli 2k</span>(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">-</span>2K, p. 111-112.)
A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding crude nuclear weapons production and
AND
and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.
**Terrorists have the motive to attack**

**A. The anti-muslim video**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans slain in Libya this week
AND
here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”

**B. The assassination of Bin Laden**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LA Times 5/7</span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of Osama bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S. "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,
Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the
AND
militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants.

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NYT 6/26</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service.

**Even if the attack fails it causes war with Russia**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by
AND
for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

**That destroys the environment and causes INSTANT extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wickersham 11 </span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)
Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, humankind still faces the distinct possibility
AND
of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster.

**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department last month
AND
Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)
**A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Prado 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html)</span>
As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. In the
AND
Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT. Then came the year 2001.

**The information for this strain was released last month – that means it’s a race against time for the aff**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GSN 12/4</span> (Global Security Newswire, “Scientists Air Worries Over Proposed Rules on Avian Influenza Studies”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/scientists-air-worries-over-proposed-rules-bird-flu-studies/]], 12/4/12)
The Obama administration last week rolled out a system to assess the potential benefits and
AND
the dangers of such research outweigh any positive outcome, according to Science.

**Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chalk 8</span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)
It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime terrorism, to the extent
AND
with extremist Islamist intent and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.

**Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S.
AND
in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”

===Economy - MBA=== 

**A terrorist attack DESTROYS the global economy and trade**
Flynn 6 (Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards”, 3/9, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074)
It is just a question of time before terrorists with potentially more destructive weapons breach
AND
U.S. Homeland Security priority, but an urgent global priority.

**A port attack spills over to the global economy**
Schanzer and Eyerman 10 (From the IBM Center for the Business of Government, David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, [[http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf]])
Scenario Three: Direct Attack on a U.S. Seaport finally
AND
for almost every consumer need, would quickly run out of food.

**The U.S. marine transportation system is the lifeblood of the global economy – an attack guarantees total economic collapse**
Allen 8 (Admiral Thad, U.S. Coast Guard, “Friend or Foe? Tough to Tell”, U.S. Naval Institute, [[http://www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf|www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf]])
Some Americans take for granted how the shelves remain stocked at Target, Wal-
AND
in the port shutting down and spreading anxiety throughout the global financial marketplace.

**Economic decline causes war**
Royal 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

**Trade solves all war – empirics and analysis prove**
Griswold 11 (Daniel, 2011, Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf]])
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.

===Drug Trafficking - Ohio Valley=== 

**Cargo in ports are a vital part of drug trafficking**
Eski 11 (Yarin, University of Glasgow. “‘Port of call’: Towards a criminology of port security.” Criminology and Criminal Justice 11:415. 7-18-11. SagePub)
As mentioned previously, international drugs trafficking has been affiliated with the maritime realm for
AND
things easier for those using the port’ (Zaitch, 2002b: 243).

**US demand drives drug trafficking**
President’s Commission on Organized Crime 9 (“America’s Habit: Drug Abuse, Drug Trafficking & Organized Crime,” Schaffer Library of Drug Policy, [[http://www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/govpubs/amhab/amhabc7.htm]])
A clear example of the relationship of supply and demand is provided by the case
AND
a really tiny role compared to the total consumption of the United States.

**Drug trafficking fuels FARC – that causes Colombian instability and a distrust of the government**
Chalk 11 (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact and Response” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2011/RAND_MG1076.pdf]])
The Latin American drug trade has had a pervasive and insidious impact that has affected
AND
operate with the efficiency and deadliness of an elite drug trafficking organization.”5

**That causes proliferation of WMDs**
Manwaring 5 (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an
AND
and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65

**New proliferators will feel the need to build up their arsenals quickly – that skews decision making and causes easy escalation of wars**
Horowitz 9 - Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania (Michael Horowitz, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons and International Conflict: Does Experience Matter?” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Volume 53 Number 2, April 2009 pg. 234-257)
This section focuses on how acquiring nuclear weapons influences both the new nuclear state and
AND
be effective, increasing the probability that an adversary will not reciprocate.

**More states proliferating causes accidental nuclear war**
Below 8 (Tim D. Q. Below, Wing Commander for the Royal Air Force, (Master of Arts degree in Defence Studies from Kings College London, “Options for Us Nuclear Disarmament: Exemplary Leadership or Extraordinary Lunacy?” June 2008)
EXPERTS:
-Ivan Oelrich, Ph.D., the Senior Fellow for the Strategic Security Program at the Federation of American Scientists
-Barry Blechman, Dr. Barry M. Blechman, the co-founder of the Stimson Center, and a distinguished fellow focused on nuclear disarmament
Despite his relative optimism that proliferation may not present the dangers that other commentators fear
AND
dangers of nuclear accident or inadvertent use as the greatest short term threat.

**Drug trafficking destroys Latin American Democracy**
Alvarez 11 (GUSTAVO A. ALVAREZ, MAJOR, HONDURAN ARMY. “DRUG TRAFFICKING AS A LETHAL REGIONAL THREAT IN CENTRAL AMERICA” U.S. Army Command and General Staff College)
As stated earlier, drug trafficking is the most lucrative business in the world producing
AND
choice of either being rich or being dead along with their loved ones.

**Latin American democracy is key to GLOBAL democracy**
Fauriol and Weintraub 95 - director of the CSIS Americas program and professor of Public Affairs at the University of Texas (Georges and Sidney, The Washington Quarterly, “U.S. Policy, Brazil, and the Southern Cone”, lexis)
The democracy theme also carries much force in the hemisphere today. The State Department
AND
on all three in Latin America will compromise progress elsewhere in the world.

**Global democracy prevents all war and solves extinction**
Diamond 96 (Larry, Promoting Democracy in the 1990s, “1. Why Promote Democracy?” wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm)
OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-
AND
which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.

===Sex Trafficking - Ohio Valley=== 

**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**
AAPA 3/7[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)
AAPA urges Congress to continue to authorize and appropriate $400 million for the
AND
is a federal responsibility and it should remain at the federal level.

**Port security investment is key to guard against human trafficking**
AAPA 11 SOURCE American Association of Port Authorities “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html
Since 9/11, the Port Security Grant Program has received about $2
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."

**Human smuggling results in sex trafficking**
US DOS 6 (US Dept. of State, “Fact Sheet: Distinctions Between Human Smuggling and Human Trafficking 2006” U.S Dept of State Diplomacy in Action, January 1, 2006[[http://www.state.gov/m/ds/hstcenter/90434.htm]])
Human smuggling is the facilitation, transportation, attempted transportation or illegal entry ofa person
AND
also possible that a person being smuggled mayat any pointbecome a trafficking victim.

**Thousands of people are trafficked into the U.S. each year – its stealthy nature allows traffickers to slip under national radars**
International Affairs 8 [“Current Human Trafficking Crisis,” May 27, 2008 http://suite101.com/article/current-human-trafficking-crisis-a55152]
Millions of people every year are the victims of human trafficking. Slavery, which
AND
victims of human trafficking at any given time at 12.3 million.

**And, human and sex trafficking cases are increasing at an alarming rate - girls arrive in cargo containers at southern ports**
The Defender Foundation No Date [“The Problem,” http://thedefenderfoundation.org/?page_id=192]
These cases, of course, were US minors. Overseas victims are obtained in
AND
to organized crime syndicates and Biker Motorcycle clubs for transport and further sales.

**An ideal sense of hegemonic masculinity projected by international politics will forever be unattainable, instead it dehumanizes females and kills value to life**
Tickner, 92 [J. Ann. (1992). (Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security, Engendered Insecurities. Columbia University Press. Retrieved June 22, 2011 from Columbia International Affairs Online [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/tickner/tickner12.html]]]
While the purpose of this book is to introduce gender as a category of analysis
AND
terms of their power capabilities and capacity for self-help and autonomy.

**We have a moral obligation to reject rape – it’s a type of sexual violence that’s in the spirit of murder and destroys value to life**
Wing 97(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943)
The multiple effect of violence onthese women, simultaneously coming from outside and inside their
AND
of life or of an entire culture." 42 and misery of others.

**Trafficking denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shattered**
Hopper and Hidalgo 6 [Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n]
During the course of trafficking, the identity of victims and their sense of self
AND
break down, leaving them physically, emotionally, and spiritually shattered. n81

**Every invasion of freedom must be rejected**
Petro 74 (Sylvester Petro, professor of law, Wake Forest University, Spring 1974, TOLEDO LAW REVIEW, p. 480.)
However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway – “I believe in
AND
every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.

**Trafficking and forced prostitution denigrate women—treating women as commodities**
Enriquez 99 (Jean, Executive Director of Coalition Against Trafficking In Women-Asia Pacific, “Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, Seoul, South Korea, November 1999)
CATW asserts that trafficking in women is inseparable with the issue of prostitution. The
AND
reinforced by the military institution, that are satiated by trafficking in women.

**The devaluation of agency eradicates the capacity to make meaningful political judgments. Agency is a prerequisite for every value and a necessary condition for establishing a just society.**
Lang 99 (Anthony, Jr. The American University in Cairo, European Journal of International Relations, Vol. 5 (1): 67-107, 1999, p. 77-79
This article proposes that the attribution of state responsibility undermines the agency of individual citizens
AND
necessary step in the direction of a true democracy (Arendt, 1958)

**Sex trafficking treats humans like tools leading to exploitation, this is evil.**
Gordon & Gordon 95 (Haim&Rivca, Department of Education, Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheva, Israel, Sartre& Evil: Guidelines for a Struggle, Questia)
How do we define Evil? If asked, Sartre would probably say that Evil
AND
means the assuming of responsibility for every situation in which one finds oneself.

**The judge must reject all instances of evil**
Gordon & Gordon 95 (Haim&Rivca, Department of Education, Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheva, Israel, Sartre& Evil: Guidelines for a Struggle, Questia)
With our regained lucidity, we clearly perceived the prevalence of the noble Evil that
AND
his insights on how to grasp this Evil intuitively requires a new beginning.

**Patriarchy is a cause of massive structural violence and perpetuates racism**
Bunch 90 –She founded the Center for Women's Global Leadership, recipient of the Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights, currently a member of the Advisory Committee for the Human Rights Watch Women's Rights Division, recently served on the Advisory Committee for the Secretary General’s 2006 Report to the General Assembly on Violence against Women(Charlotte, “Women’s Rights as Human Rights: Towards a Re-Vision of Human Rights”, http://www.jstor.org/stable/762496]
The most insidious myth about women's rights is that they are trivial or secondary to
AND
, and national imperialism in repeated and often brutal violation of their bodies.

**Morality is the best way to politically orient ourselves**
Loobuyck 12 (Patrick, South African Journal of philosophy Vol. 31 no 3 "Creating mutual identification and solidarity in highly diversified societies. The importance of identification by shared participation". (Loobuyck is a professor at university of Antwerp)
Therefore, it has been suggested, that the sense of belonging together, as
AND
state is replaced by a non-neutral politics of the common good.

**We must contesting patriarchy in the debate space is critical to solve for status quo. A vote affirmative can bring about similar revolutions.**
Jarvis 2k D. S. L. Jarvis, 2000. [University of South Carolina Press, International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism: Defending the Discipline, p 155].
For feminists the most immediate remedy to masculinistandrocentrism in International Relations and global politics is
AND
and private spheres"; so begins the project of "ungendering world politics.""

**Focus on human rights, appropriately framed, can change governmental thinking—policymakers and individuals have an obligation**
Pelton 5 (Leroy H. Peltonprofessor in and former director of the School of Social Work, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Frames of Justice, 2005, pages 152-153, MC & JS)
Everyone has an obligation to promote and support life. When government is formed,
AND
of married people. Benefits should be tied to individuals, not groups.

**Human rights are part of a complementary framework—they must be upheld in every instance**
Donovan 1 (James M. Donovan, Tulane University School of Law Library,
AND
take action to demand and defend their rights and the rights of others.

===Solvency - Pine Crest RR=== 

**MMPDS technology solves**
Sloane 10/11 (Dr. Stanton D. Sloane, bachelor’s degree in Professional Studies from Barry University, a master’s degree in Human Resources Management from Pepperdine University, and a Doctor of Management degree from the Weatherhead Business School at Case Western Reserve University, President and Chief Executive Officer of Decision Sciences, Earlier, he was President of Lockheed Martin’s Management/Data Systems, “Cargo Security International: Dr. Stanton D. Sloane of Decision Sciences looks at how passive detection systems can play their part in protecting the global supply chain”, [[http://www.decisionsciencescorp.com/cargo-security-international-dr-stanton-d-sloane-of-decision-sciences-looks-at-how-passive-detection-systems-can-play-their-part-in-protecting-the-global-supply-chain/]], 10/11/12)
In our global, just-in-time economy, even small interruptions in
AND
, the first US Secretary of Homeland Security and former Governor of Pennsylvania.

**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**
Fox News 8/1 (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)
Western strikes onAl Qaeda have shown progress in taking out the terror group's core in
AND
foreign fighters traveling to the country and posing the threat of greater violence.

===Solvency - Greenhill=== 

**Visualization and imaging technology solves**
PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)
As documentation cannot be taken as trustworthy, and as it is quite impossible
AND
something into the box to prod emissions, which are then detected.

**New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits**
PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)
In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive imaging is analogous to medical imaging
AND
from IBM through ambitious start-ups and agile retreads.

**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**
Fox News 8/1 (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)
Western strikes onAl Qaeda have shown progress in taking out the terror group's core in
AND
foreign fighters traveling to the country and posing the threat of greater violence.


=Neg= 

==Quick Note== 

Theo, with all of his eminent wisdom, __**accidentally**__ deleted the whole neg wiki :(

If you are hitting us and you are aff, don't be afraid to ask/yell/slander us for past strategies/cites/arguments.

All args will be posted ASAP

==Strategies== 

===Pine Crest RR=== 

====1—Pine Crest MM—Fuel Cell Bus Program==== 

T--Vehicles
States CP—2NR
Oil Dependence Adv CP
Ptx—2NR
Heg Bad
Oil Dependence Bad

====3—Whitney Young DV—Inland Waterways==== 
QTR--2NR
Ptx--2NR
T--Maintenence
Heg Bad
States CP

===Pine Crest Proper=== 

====2--Bronx BK--Climate Adaptation==== 
Carbon Tax CP--2NR
Ptx--2NR
Heg Bad--2NR
QTR CP
Extra T


====4--Berk Prep DS--NIB w/ Ex-Im==== 
QTR CP--2NR
Ptx--2NR
States CP
T--Investment/Extra

====5--Whitney Young DV--Inland Waterways==== 
Heg Bad--2NR
QTR CP
States CP
Ptx
Bio-D DA

===Berkeley=== 

====1--Juan Diego--Mexican Border==== 
Heg Bad--2NR
QTR CP
Ptx DA
Trade Adv CP


====4--Kinkaid--JARC==== 
Anthro K--2NR
T--TI
Spk 4 Others K
Ptx DA

====5--GBN--Space Elevators==== 
Ptx DA
T--TI
Hetero K
Memo CP
Heg Bad

===HoFlo=== 

====2--Whitney Young PS--Cyborg Fem==== 
FW--2NR
Spending DA
Ban Auto CP
Anthro K
Case Turns

====3--Marquette--National Parks==== 
Ptx DA--2NR
EIS CP
Econ K

====6--GBN--Port Dredging==== 
Ptx DA--2NR
Manufacture CP
China Coal DA
Econ K
Heg Bad
Trade Bad

====Octas--Maine East--HSR==== 
Oil Good Turn--2NR
States CP
Ptx DA
Coercian DA
Econ K
Inflation DA

===IHSA State=== 

====2--GBN KS--Space Elevators==== 
JWST CP--2NR
Immigration Ptx--2NR
T--TI
Security K
SPS Turn

====4--GBS CC--Inland Waterways==== 
Everglades PIC--2NR
BioD DA--2NR
China Coal DA
LNG DA
QTR CP
Heg Bad

====5--GBN CT--Aktau Port==== 
Heidegger K--2NR
Advantage CP
Immigration Ptx
T--Military

===NDCA=== 

====1--Bronx Law--Pa'Lante==== 
FW--2NR
Anthro K
Spending DA

====3--Damien--Bering Strait==== 
Ptx DA--2NR
QTR CP
T--In
Heidegger K

====5--Blake--LNG==== 
Heidegger K--2NR
QER CP
Ptx
T--Energy
Warming Good

====Octas--Greenhill--Bering Strait==== 
Heidegger K--2NR
Consult NATO CP
T--Land Grants
Ptx DA

===TOC=== 

====1--Westwood--TI Deliberative Process==== 
T Direct Invest/Maintencne--2NR
States CP
Ptx
Natives K

==Heg Bad== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s embracing a strategy of __retrenchment__ that will get the U.S. out of hegemony peacefully - the plan’s attempt to prop up heg causes __great-power conflict__ and a violent transition to multipolarity</span>
Adam <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Quinn 11</span>, Lecturer in International Studies at the University of Birmingham, July 2011, “The Art of Declining Politely: Obama’s Prudent Presidency and the Waning of American Power,” International Affairs, Vol. 87, No. 4, p. 803-824
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">As for the administration’s involvement in the ‘Arab Spring’, and latterly military intervention </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">seems it is fortunate enough to have a president who fits the bill.</span>


Best data proves unipolar systems are substantially more war-prone than multipolar alternatives
Nuno P. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Monteiro 12</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity is Not Peaceful,” International Security, Winter 2012, Vol. 36, No. 3, p. 9-40
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How well, then, does the argument that unipolar systems are peaceful account for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">higher.47 These</span> figures provide no evidence that unipolarity is peaceful<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.48</span>


That makes nuclear war involving the U.S. inevitable
Christopher <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Layne 6</span>, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A & M University, 2006, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169
Proponents of U.S. hegemony like to say that America’s military commit­ments in
AND
<span class="underline">does it could be prohibitively expensive for the U</span>nited <span class="underline">S</span>tates <span class="underline">to be involved</span>.
Rather than being instruments of regional pacification, today //America’s alliances are transmission belts for war// that ensure<span class="underline"> that </span>the U.S. would be embroiled in Eurasian wars<span class="underline">. In deciding whether to go war in Eurasia, </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>should not allow its hands to be tied in advance. For example, a non—great power war on the Korean Peninsula—even if nuclear weapons were not involved—would be very costly. <span class="underline">The </span>dangers of being //entangled in a great power war// in Eurasia, of course, <span class="underline">are even greater, and </span>could expose the American homeland to nuclear attack.<span class="underline"> An </span>offshore balancing grand strat­egy would extricate the United States from the danger of being entrapped in Eurasian conflicts by its alliance commitments.


Only disengagement solves---prolonging hegemony increases the risk of great power war---and none of their offense applies because primacy doesn’t create effective influence
Nuno P. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Monteiro 12</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity is Not Peaceful,” International Security, Winter 2012, Vol. 36, No. 3, p. 9-40
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">From the perspective of the overall peacefulness of the international system,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> then, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">no </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">peacefully</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In effect, </span>unparalleled relative power requires unequaled self-restraint<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

==Ptx== 


===Pine Crest—Immigration=== 

Will pass – bipartisan support for a solution
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allvoices 1-6</span> (“113th Congress: Powers align around immigration reform right from the start” http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/13747972-113th-congress-powers-align-around-immigration-reform-right-from-the-start)
Both Republican and Democratic congressional leaders state that they intend to tackle immigration reform in
AND
who knows that immigration has been an unaddressed problem for far too long.

GOP hates federal bus projects
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lallanilla 12 </span>(Marc Lallanilla, Science, health and environmental journalist, member of the Society of Environmental Journalists, Graduated from UT-Austin. “Hard Right: The Republican Platform and the Planet” 2012. http://greenliving.about.com/od/greenprograms/a/Republican-Environmental-Platform.htm)
The Republican Platform and Mass Transit¶ Every day, millions of people across America
AND
all lose if they succeed in furthering their virulently anti-environmental agenda.


Capital is key --- it bridges support from both parties.
//D//allas //M//orning //N//ews, **1/2**/2012 (Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge, p. http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece)
The president’s words to NBC’s David Gregory are only that — words. What will
AND
done.” President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday


CIT’s key to Latin American relations
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shifter 12</span> Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf
Some<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> enduring </span>problems stand<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> squarely </span>in the way of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> partnership and </span>//effective cooperation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The </span>
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">States’ hemispheric agenda as well as the interests of other nations.</span>


Relations are key to solve a laundry list of existential threats---the brink is now
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shifter 12</span> Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf
There are compelling reasons for the United States and Latin America to pursue more robust
AND
—both from the United States and from Latin America and the Caribbean.

==CP== 

===Carbon Tax CP=== 

The United States federal government should implement a targeted carbon tax on transportation fuels. The United States federal government should reinvest revenues from the carbon fee into targeted infrastructure improvements.


Targeted carbon tax and reinvestment solves
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Raborn 10 </span></span>(Craig, Transportation Policy Analyst, studies in this article conducted by: SIMTRAVE model developed by the Climate Change Policy Partnership (CCPP) at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, “EffectsofReinvestingTransportationCarbonFeeRevenuesinTransportationInfrastructure”, 12/10)
Reinvesting revenues from a transportation fuels carbon fee into targeted infrastructure improvements can achievesmalldecreases in
AND
¶ further explore how transportation policies can also serve as effective climate policies.



Most qualified evidence says CP stops runaway warming—new technology
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Tirone</span></span>4/27/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">12</span></span> (Jonathon, citing: Dr. James E. Hansen, one qualified ass mofo, top climate chance scientist at NASA, PhD in Physics, received the: Heinz Award in Environmental studies, Dan David Award for science, Carl-GustafRossby Research Medal, the highest honor bestowed by the American Meteorological Society, for his "outstanding contributions to climate modeling, understanding climate change forcings and sensitivity, and for clear communication of climate science in the public arena, “Carbon Price Needed to Halt Warming, NASA Chief Says”, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/carbon-price-needed-to-halt-warming-nasa-chief-says.html]], 4/27/12)
Putting a price on carbon is the world’s best hope at staving off runaway global
AND
those to come must stir the public’s conscience to the point of action.”


===Everglades PIC=== 

Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its expeditious investment in marine transportation in the United States for ports that require dredging except the Everglade Ports.


The plan destroys key ecosystems in the Everglades
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fleshler 11</span> (David Fleshler, Sun Sentinel, “Environmental battle brews over Port Everglades dredging plan”, August 7, 2011 http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2011-08-07/news/fl-port-dredging-20110806_1_port-everglades-coast-ports-entrance-channel)
An environmental fight is brewing over plans by Port Everglades to blast and dredge a
AND
The world of international trade is going to larger ships," he said.


Extinction -- keystone species mean alt causes are irrelevant
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Young 10</span> (PhD coastal marine ecology, 10 [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]
Different species within ecosystems fill particular roles, they all have a function, they
AND
on this planet possible and that our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.

===Bio-D NB--Neg Block Cards=== 

Doesn’t assume the current brink – it causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Knight 12</span> (Matthew, CNN News Service, siting International Union for Conservation of Nature, “Extinction threat a call to world leaders at Rio summit,” 6/20/2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/19/world/rio-red-list-extinction-species/index.html]])
The[[@http://www.iucn.org/| IUCN]] assessed a total of 63,837 plant and animal species around the
AND
hasn't been either priority or resource given to these tasks," he said.


Specifically threatens coral reefs and sea turtles
Fleshler 11 (David Fleshler, Sun Sentinel, “Environmental battle brews over Port Everglades dredging plan”, August 7, 2011 http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2011-08-07/news/fl-port-dredging-20110806_1_port-everglades-coast-ports-entrance-channel)
Several environmental agencies have objected strongly to elements of the plan, particularly since dredgingand
AND
Council on Environmental Quality, which acts as referee in disagreements among federal agencies


Healthy coral ecosystems are key to human survival.
Robin Kundis<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Craig</span>, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2003</span> (“Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they
AND
jelly." n864 More importantly, the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.


So are sea turtles
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">STCB 10</span> (Sea Turtle Conservation Bonaire. Sources: Caribbean Conservation Corporation and Todd Steiner, Sea Turtle Restoration Project. “Are Sea Turtles Worth Saving?” 2010. http://www.bonaireturtles.org/explore/are-sea-turtles-worth-saving/ )
If sea turtles went extinct, dune vegetation would lose a major source of nutrients
AND
important. Put the clock back together and see if it still works.




===QTR CP=== 

Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to ­increase transportation infrastructure loans in the United States commensurate with incorporation of an independently governed National Infrastructure Bank into the Export-Import Bank of the United States.



Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates

Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Koch 5</span></span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)

"Policy statements"differfrom substantive rules that carry the "force of law,"

AND

Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).



CP solves the aff – changes future budget decisions.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Tollefson -11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Jeff Tollefson, DOE releases first Quadrennial Technology Review, September 27, 2011, http://blogs.nature.com/news/2011/09/doe_releases_first_quadrennial_1.html)</span>

The US Department of Energy (DOE) released its inaugural Quadrennial Technology Review on

AND

markets, business, policy analysis and, most intriguingly, social sciences.




Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it

James <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Hunnicutt 99,</span></span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis

Depending on whether a rule is adopted with or without notice-and-comment

AND

173] rules as law, agencies canconvince the public into following nonlegislative rules

==Past Tournaments== 
===[[debatecoaches/Wake Forest Neg|Wake Forest Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Greenhill Neg|Greenhill Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Georgetown Neg|Georgetown Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/St. Marks Neg|St. Mark's Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Michigan RR Neg|Michigan RR Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Michigan Tournament Neg|Michigan Tournament Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Glenbrooks Neg|Glenbrooks Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Northwestern RR Neg|Northwestern RR Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Ohio Valley Neg|Ohio Valley Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/Dowling Neg|Dowling Neg]]=== 
===[[debatecoaches/MBA Neg|MBA Neg]]=== 
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 11776px; width: 1px;">



===Plan Text=== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.==== 

===Contention 1 is Terrorism=== 
====Status quo port security is insufficient – screening can’t detect radiation – new tech is key==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kimery 13 </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Cargo containers arriving at the 22</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> maritime </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">ports through which the greatest volume of</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> containerized </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">cargo enters the United States have </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">not adequately been screened</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for radiation as required by law, according to a new audit by the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG). And that's raised the ire of a ranking member of the House Homeland Security Committee. The OIG's audit also raised many questions that weren't addressed in the audit report that were outlined to Homeland Security Today by a former Customs and Border Protection (CBP) port security official. The OIG’s audit report, United States Customs and Border Protection’s Radiation Portal Monitors at Seaports, stated that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">“Although all cargo is being screened, we identified</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> some radiation portal </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">monitors utilized </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">infrequently or not utilized at all</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">..." The audit report, which the OIG sent to Kevin McAleenan, CBP Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, said DHS "component [</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">agencies</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">do not</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> fully </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">coordinate or</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> centrally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">manage the radiation portal</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> monitor program </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to ensure effective and efficient operations</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.” “Specifically,” the OIG reported, CBP “does not consistently gather and review utilization information to ensure that it is fully utilizing all radiation portal monitors. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CBP does not always monitor and</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> promptly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">evaluate changes in the screening environment</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> at seaports to relocate radiation portal monitors as necessary.” “Specifically,” the OIG reported, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CBP “does not consistently gather and review</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> utilization </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">information to ensure that it is fully utilizing all radiation portal monitors</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. CBP does not always monitor and promptly evaluate changes in the screening environment at seaports to relocate radiation portal monitors as necessary.”¶ ¶ DHS's Inspector General further determined that the “Defense Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO) and CBP do not accurately track and monitor their inventory of radiation portal monitors. Given </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the radiation portal monitors</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">’ limited life and the </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">lack </span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">of </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">funding for new monitors</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, CBP and DNDO should better coordinate to fully utilize, promptly relocate and properly maintain inventory to best use resources and to continue screening of all containerized cargo entering US seaports.”¶ ¶ "Initial estimates of the deployed Radiation Portal Monitors showed an average useful life expectancy of ten years,” but that “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">based on</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> the initial </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">estimates</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, some </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">RPM equipment will </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">become obsolete by 2014</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, with no useful RPMs at seaports by 2021,” the OIG report stated.¶ ¶ The OIG noted that “studies have shown that the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">service life can be increased with continued maintenance and improvements. However</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">DNDO has </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">not</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> yet funded or deployed technologies to increase the service life of current RPMs or </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">decided on a new technology to replace them</span>.//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> In 2005, DNDO began to develop, test and deploy advanced screening technology through its Advanced Spectroscopic Portal Program, but DHS cancelled the program in 2011 because of operational and technical challenges.” </span>
====Terrorists have the motive to attack==== 
====A. The anti-muslim video==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ephron 12</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Ambassador Christopher </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Stevens and <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">three</span> other <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Americans slain</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in Libya this week </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">arrived</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the United States yesterday amid disagreements on whether the attack that killed them was pre-planned and also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">amidrising concerns that widespread Muslim anger could trigger a terrorist attack on U.S. soil.</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> From North Africa to Bangladesh, tens of thousands of people protested for a fourth day, in what started as a</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> backlash against an <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">anti-Muslim video</span> produced in the U.S. and has <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">turned into the most serious test in relations between America and the Muslim world</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> since the start of mass uprisings in the region early last year. At least seven people were killed in yesterday’s events, which included large demonstrations in Lebanon, Sudan and the Palestinian Gaza Strip. In Tunisia, protesters breached and looted the American embassy and clashed violently with police and security forces. American staffers had cleared out of the before the protesters arrived. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In New York, a high-ranking police official said that the tumult over the film has heightened the possibility of violence at home. “People who might have been sitting on the fence,” are more inclined towards action, he said, referring to possible domestic terrorism. </span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">“If nothing happens here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.” </span>
====B. The assassination of Bin Laden==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LA Times 12 </span>(Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of</span></span> Osama <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">bin Ladenwith retaliation against the U.S.</span></span> "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the United States</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The terrorist network said it would soon release an audio message made by Bin Laden a week before his death in which he passes along "advice and guidance."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Bin Laden was killed early Monday in a U.S. commando raid on a compound in the Pakistan garrison city of Abbottabad that he had used as a hideout for the last five years. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Experts have said his death deals a significant blow to Al Qaeda but </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">probably won't mean its demise</span>////.//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">The Internet statement released by Al Qaeda warned that</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> "soon, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">with God's help, we pray that their happiness turns into sorrow, and may their </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">blood mix with their tears."</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> militants, the statement said, "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">will continue to plan and plot </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">without any fatigue, boredom, despair, surrender or indifference</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Al Qaeda also urged Pakistanis to mount an uprising against their U.S.-allied government.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">The statement appeared to be written before the U.S. government announced that Bin Laden had been buried at sea in accordance with Islamic rites. "We warn the Americans to not commit any injustice against the corpse of Sheik Osama. … Any inappropriate treatment will open the doors of double evil."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> On Friday, the U.S. carried out its first drone missile strike in Pakistan since Bin Laden's death, killing 13 suspected militants in North Waziristan. The tribal region along the Afghan border is home to Afghan Taliban militants who routinely cross the border into Afghanistan to launch attacks on U.S. and NATO forces.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">The strike involved eight missiles fired at suspected militants in a car, a restaurant and a local seminary in the DattaKhel area. That village was the site of a controversial drone strike March 17 that killed more than 40 people, most of whom Pakistani officials said were tribal elders and civilians rather than militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants. </span>
====Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NPR 12 </span>(Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the main subject of the summit in South Korea is the problem of</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">potentially</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">insecure nuclear materials around the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. For short, loose nukes. In April 2009, President Obama called for a global effort to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world in four years.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Well, on the eve of the Seoul Summit, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School has released a progress report on that four-year effort. And joining us is one of the authors, Matthew Bunn, a former White House staffer who's now at Harvard and is a specialist on this issue. Welcome to the program once again.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> DR. MATTHEW BUNN: Good to be here.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> SIEGEL: And first, what's encouraging in your progress report is that you actually find there has been some progress. How do you measure that progress?</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> BUNN: Well, it's a hard thing to measure the progress. But we look at those stocks of nuclear material or nuclear weapons that seem to us to pose some of the highest risks. And we say, is something being done to reduce that risk and is it significant? And we find that for most of the highest risk stocks, the answer is yes.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> For example, Ukraine just got rid of all of the weapons-usable nuclear material on its soil. The one area where we said, you know, there is progress on nuclear security but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the things that threaten</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear security are growing even faster, and so the risk is getting worse and not better</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, was Pakistan.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> SIEGEL: That's right. In assessing the three highest-risk nuclear stockpiles, you report significant progress and risks that are either stable or declining in Russia and in research reactors around the world. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">when the subject is Pakistan, your report is</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> a lot more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">disturbing</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> BUNN: Well, Pakistan has a small and well-guarded nuclear stockpile. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">that stockpile faces huge threats</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, both </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">from insiders who might help steal nuclear weapons or materials</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, and from outsiders who might attack. There were well-armed, well-trained outsiders who attacked Pakistani military headquarters and a Pakistani military base, in both cases apparently with inside information. And you worry about that kind of attack taking place at a nuclear weapons storage site.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> SIEGEL: Well, your report acknowledges a kind of a paradoxical irony here, which is you talk about that. And the Pakistanis come to regard a U.S. strike to secure their nuclear arsenal as one of their vulnerabilities. And they become even more opaque and less cooperative about their nuclear program.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> BUNN: That's absolutely true. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">The Pakistanis won't let</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, for example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">U.S. experts go to their nuclear sites</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> because they're afraid if we knew where they were we'd be tempted to seize their nuclear stockpiles. I think </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Pakistan is an ongoing concern</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in part </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">because their stockpile is</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the fastest-growing in the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. They're making more and more as we try to lock this material down. So, there's a lot to be done to reduce the risks in Pakistan.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> SIEGEL: Since, let's say, the breakup of the Soviet Union, how close have we come to somebody effectively - to the extent that we know it's happened - stealing materials with which one could make a nuclear weapon?</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> BUNN: We know that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the theft of potential nuclear bomb material</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, that is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">highly enriched uranium or plutonium, is not a hypothetical worry, it's an </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">ongoing reality</span>//<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">There are about 20 well-documented cases in the unclassified record</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, more in the classified record, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">of seizure of real highly enriched uranium or real plutonium that have been stolen.</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the most recent one of those was just last year in Moldova</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. And that case was particularly distressing because the Moldovan authorities say that they have information that smugglers, as yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium. </span>
====The black market is still active – despite attempts at cracking down material is being acquired from unknown places==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AP 12</span> (Yahoo News, “Georgia details nuke black market investigations”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/georgia-details-nuke-black-market-investigations-153216292.html]], 12/9/12)
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">BATUMI, Georgia (AP) — On the gritty side of this casino resort town near the Turkish border, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">three men</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in a hotel suite </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">gathered</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in secret </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to talk about a deal for radioactive material</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. The Georgian seller offered cesium, a byproduct of nuclear reactors that terrorists can use to arm a dirty bomb with the power to kill. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">But one of the</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Turkish </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">men</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, wearing a suit and casually smoking a cigarette, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">made clear he was after</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> something even more dangerous: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">uranium, the material for a nuclear bomb</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. The would-be buyers agreed to take a photo of the four cylinders and see if their boss in Turkey was interested. They did not know police were watching through a hidden camera. As they got up to leave, the police rushed in and arrested the men, according to Georgian officials, who were present. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The encounter</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, which took place in April, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reflected a fear shared by U.S. and Georgian officials: Despite years of effort and hundreds of millions of dollars spent in the fight against the</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> illicit </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sale of nuclear contraband,<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> the black market remains active</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the countries </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">around the former Soviet Union</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. The radioactive materials, mostly left over from the Cold War, include nuclear bomb-grade uranium and plutonium, and dirty-bomb isotopes like cesium and iridium.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The extent of the black market is unknown, but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a steady stream of attempted sales</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> of radioactive materials</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> in recent years suggests smugglers have</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> sometimes </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">crossed borders undetected</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Since the formation of a special nuclear police unit in 2005 with U.S. help and funding, 15 investigations have been launched in Georgia and dozens of people arrested.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Six</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> of the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">investigations were disclosed publicly</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for the first time to The Associated Press by Georgian authorities. Officials with the U.S. government and the International Atomic Energy Agency declined to comment on the individual investigations, but President Barack Obama noted in a speech earlier this year that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">countries like Georgia and Moldova have seized highly enriched uranium from smugglers</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. An IAEA official, who spoke anonymously because he was not authorized to comment, said the agency is concerned </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">smuggling is still occurring in Georgia</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Four of the</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> previously undisclosed </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">cases</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, and a fifth — an arrest in neighboring Turkey announced by officials there — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">occurred </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">this year</span>//<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. One from last year involved enough cesium-137 to make a deadly dirty bomb, officials said.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Also, Georgian officials see links between two older cases involving highly enriched uranium, which in sufficient quantity can be used to make a nuclear bomb. The AP's interviews with the two imprisoned smugglers in one case suggested that the porous borders and the poverty of the region contributed to the problem.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The arrests in the casino resort of Batumi stand out for two reasons: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They suggest there are real buyers</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> — many of the other investigations involved stings with undercover police acting as buyers. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> they suggest </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> buyers are interested in material that can be used to make </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a nuclear weapon</span>//<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "Real buyers are rare in nuclear smuggling cases, and raise real risks," said nuclear nonproliferation specialist Matthew Bunn, who runs Harvard's Project on Managing the Atom. "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They suggest someone is actively seeking to buy material</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for a clandestine bomb."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The request for uranium raises a particularly troubling question.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">There's no plausible reason for looking for black-market uranium other than for nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">— or profit, by selling to people who are looking to make nuclear weapons," Bunn said.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Georgia</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">'s proximity to the large stockpiles of Cold War-era nuclear material, its position along trade routes to Asia and Europe, the roughly 225 miles (360 kilometers) of unsecured borders of its two breakaway republics, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and the poverty of the region may explain why the nation of 4.5 million </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has become a transit point for nuclear material</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Georgian officials say the radioactive material in the five new cases this year all transited through Abkhazia, which borders on Russia and has Russian troops stationed on its territory.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Abkhazia's foreign ministry said it has no information about the Georgian allegations and would not comment, but in the past it has denied Georgian allegations.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Russia maintains that it has secured its</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> radioactive </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">material</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> — including bomb-grade uranium and plutonium — and that Georgia has exaggerated the risk because of political tension with Moscow. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">But</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> while the vast majority of the former Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal and radioactive material has been secured, U.S. officials say that some </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">material in the region remains loose</span>//<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "Without a doubt, we are aware and have been over the last several years that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">not all nuclear material is accounted for</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">," says Simon Limage, deputy assistant secretary for non-proliferation programs at the U.S. State Department. "It is true that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a portion that we are concerned about continues to be </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">outside of regulatory control</span>//<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> U.S. efforts to prevent smuggling have prioritized bomb-grade material because of the potential that a nuclear bomb could flatten a U.S. city. But security officials say an attack with a dirty bomb — explosives packed with radioactive material — would be easier for a terrorist to pull off. And terrorist groups, including al-Qaida, have sought the material to do so. A study by the National Defense University found that the economic impact from a dirty bomb attack of a sufficient scale on a city center could exceed that of the September 11, 2011, attacks on New York and Washington. The U.S. government has been assisting about a dozen countries believed to be vulnerable to nuclear smuggling, including Georgia, to set up teams that combine intelligence with police undercover work. Limage says Georgia's team is a model for the other countries the U.S. is supporting.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> On Jan. 6, police arrested a man in Georgia's capital, Tbilisi, and seized 36 vials with cesium-135, a radioactive isotope that is hard to use for a weapon. The man said he had obtained the material in Abkhazia. In April, Georgian authorities arrested a group of smugglers from Abkhazia bringing in three glass containers with about 2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) of yellowcake uranium, a lightly processed substance that can be enriched into bomb-grade material.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "At first we thought that this was coincidence," said ArchilPavlenishvili, chief investigator of Georgia's anti-smuggling team. "But since </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">all of these cases were connected with Abkhazia</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">suggests that the stuff was stolen recently from one particular place. </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">But we have no idea where</span>//<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. "</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Days later, more evidence turned up when Turkish media reported the arrest of three Turkish men with a radioactive substance in the capital, Ankara. Police seized 2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) of cesium-135, the same material seized in January in Tbilisi.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Georgian officials said the suspects were residents of Germany and driving a car with German plates, but that the material had come from Abkhazia. Turkish authorities said the men had entered Turkey from Georgia. Information provided by German authorities led to the arrest in June of five suspects in Georgia with 9 vials of cesium-135 that looked very similar to the vials seized in January.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The Batumi investigation started after the arrest of two men in the city of Kutaisi in February 2011 year with a small quantity of two radioactive materials stolen from an abandoned Soviet helicopter factory, according to Georgian officials. The men said that a businessman, SoslanOniani, had encouraged them to sell the material.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span>
====Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Maerli 2k</span>(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">-</span>2K, p. 111-112.)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: windowtext;">A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding crude nuclear weapons production and whether sub-national groups will succeed in producing them. Unsuccessful state nuclear programs (e.g., the Iraqi’s are often cited as evidence of the difficulties of establishing reliable nuclear weapons programs. Unfortunately, this line of reasoning may lead to underestimating the threat from nuclear terrorists. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">It is important to recognize the</span> technical opportunities available and the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">limited skills required for the successful production of a crude nuclear explosive device</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">. In fact, there is a good deal of misunderstanding about the ease with which a sub-national group could fabricate a nuclear explosive. As with biological weapons</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">no basic research is required to construct a nuclear weapon</span></span><span style="background: yellow; color: windowtext;">.</span><span style="color: windowtext;"> Luis W. Alvarez, a prominent nuclear weapons scientist in the Manhattan Project, has argued that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">it is not difficult to set off explosive using</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">highly enriched uranium (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">HEU</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">). With modern weapons-grade uranium, the background neutron rate is so low that terrorists, if they have such materials, would have a good chance of setting off a high-yield explosion simply by dropping one half of the material onto the other half. Most people seem unaware that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if separated HEU is at hand it’s a trivial job to set off a nuclear explosion… [and] even a high school kid could make a bomb in short order.</span><span style="color: windowtext;">Not all weapons scientists would go so far as to argue that a high school student could make a bomb, but the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">technical capabilities to set off an explosion using nuclear materials should</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">certainly</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">be considered as within reach for</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">some</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">terrorists</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">. Moreover, terrorists may also be attracted to a crude nuclear weapons option due to the low radiation levels associated with HEU. In contrast to biological materials for weapons, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fresh </span><span style="color: windowtext;">(unirradiated) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">uranium material can be handled unshielded without protective measures</span><span style="color: windowtext;">. HEU thus provides a convenient material for weapons production for groups with limited resources and no access to advanced laboratories. Uranium was indeed the material of choice for both the Hiroshima bomb and the South African nuclear weapons program. “Little Boy,” the HEU bomb the United States dropped on Hiroshima in 1945, was triggered by a simple “gun” mechanism. A small, slug shaped piece of uranium was fired down a barrel into a larger, cup-shaped piece of heu. This elementary design generated a destructive force of about 15 kilotons (kt)—the equivalent of 15,000 tons of TNT. South Africa produced six nuclear devices based on the simple uranium gun-type principle while under the constraints of an international embargo, and thus having to rely on its own resources. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">produced more than 50 years ago represented sophisticated technology and science </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">at that time. Today these weapons are not only old, they are primitive. Their <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">designs are well known</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;">form the scientific literature. Even lectures that were given to the physicists of the Manhattan Project at its commencement have now been published. Likewise, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">within the information swamp of the internet, potential nuclear weapons producers can find some useful sites</span><span class="underline">. </span><span style="color: windowtext;">The detailed weapons descriptions remain classified; however, Frank Barnaby has argued that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a competent group of physicists</span><span style="color: windowtext;">and engineers, given adequate resources and acesss to literature</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, would have little difficulty in designing a fission weapons from scratch. They would not need to access any classified information</span><span style="color: windowtext;">. Indeed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to reveal the potential of clandestine nuclear bomb production, nuclear scientists have presented technical outlines of crude gun-type weapons based on readily available commercial equipment and explosives</span><span style="color: windowtext;">. For example, one design that is about one-meter long and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive. </span></span>

====Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NYT 12</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing countless opportunities for terrorists to smuggle and unleash a nuclear bomb or weapon of mass destruction</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> on our shores. To counter this threat, Congress passed a law five years ago mandating that by July 2012, all maritime cargo bound for the United States must be scanned before it is loaded on ships. But the Obama administration will miss this deadline, and it is not clear to us, as the authors of the law, whether it ever plans to comply with the law.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over the years,<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> terrorists have shown themselves to be </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">frighteningly inventive.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">They have hidden explosives in printer cartridges transported by air and embedded explosives in the shoes and underwear of airline passengers. The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">cargo containers arriving on ships from foreign ports offer terrorists a </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Trojan horse</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> for a devastating attack on the United States</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. As the Harvard political scientist Graham T. Allison has put it, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">a nuclear attack is “far more likely to arrive in a cargo container than on the tip of a missile.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">”</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> But for the past five years, the Department of Homeland Security has done little to counter this threat and instead has wasted precious time arguing that it would be too expensive and too difficult, logistically and diplomatically, to comply with the law. This is unacceptable.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">An attack on an American port could cause tens of thousands of deaths and cripple global trade, with losses ranging from $45 billion to more than $1 trillion, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service. </span>
====In the charged atmosphere after an attack we would retaliate against Russia – causes all-out war==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. Indeed, there are reasons to wonder whether nuclear terrorism should ever be regarded as belonging in the category of truly existential threats. A contrast can be drawn here with the global catastrophe that would come from a massive nuclear exchange between two or more of the sovereign states that possess these weapons in significant numbers. Even the worst terrorism that the twenty-first century might bring would fade into insignificance alongside considerations of what a general nuclear war would have wrought in the Cold War period. And it must be admitted that as long as the major nuclear weapons states have hundreds and even thousands of nuclear weapons at their disposal, there is always the possibility of a truly awful nuclear exchange taking place precipitated entirely by state possessors themselves. But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">some sort of terrorist attack, and </span>//especially// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, </span></span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">how might the United States react if it was thought</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">or</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">discovered that the fissile material used in the act</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">of nuclear terrorism</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">had come from Russian stocks</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> correct </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors.</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China,</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">would officials and political leaders </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">not be</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> tempted to assume the worst? Of course</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> heightened tension or </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">even limited conflict with the United States</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">it is</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> just </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (and possibly nuclear force) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">against them</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. In that situation, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the temptations to preempt such actions might grow</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. There is also the question of how other nuclear-armed states respond to the act of nuclear terrorism on another member of that special club. It could reasonably be expected that following a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States, both Russia and China would extend immediate sympathy and support to Washington and would work alongside the United States in the Security Council. But there is just a chance, albeit a slim one, where the support of Russia and/or China is less automatic in some cases than in others. For example, what would happen if the United States wished to discuss its right to retaliate against groups based in their territory? If, for some reason, Washington found the responses of Russia and China deeply underwhelming, (neither “for us or against us”) might it also suspect that they secretly were in cahoots with the group, increasing (again perhaps ever so slightly) the chances of a major exchange. If the terrorist group had some connections to groups in Russia and China, or existed in areas of the world over which Russia and China held sway, and if Washington felt that Moscow or Beijing were placing a curiously modest level of pressure on them, what conclusions might it then draw about their culpability? If Washington decided to use, or decided to threaten the use of, nuclear weapons, the responses of Russia and China would be crucial to the chances of avoiding a more serious nuclear exchange. They might surmise, for example, that while the act of nuclear terrorism was especially heinous and demanded a strong response, the response simply had to remain below the nuclear threshold. It would be one thing for a non-state actor to have broken the nuclear use taboo, but an entirely different thing for a state actor, and indeed the leading state in the international system, to do so. If Russia and China felt sufficiently strongly about that prospect, there is then the question of what options would lie open to them to dissuade the United States from such action: and as has been seen over the last several decades, the central dissuader of the use of nuclear weapons by states has been the threat of nuclear retaliation. If some readers find this simply too fanciful, and perhaps even offensive to contemplate, it may be informative to reverse the tables. Russia, which possesses an arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads and that has been one of the two most important trustees of the non-use taboo, is subjected to an attack of nuclear terrorism. In response, Moscow places its nuclear forces very visibly on a higher state of alert and declares that it is considering the use of nuclear retaliation against the group and any of its state supporters. How would Washington view such a possibility? Would it really be keen to support Russia’s use of nuclear weapons, including outside Russia’s traditional sphere of influence? And if not, which seems quite plausible, what options would Washington have to communicate that displeasure? If China had been the victim of the nuclear terrorism and seemed likely to retaliate in kind, would the United States and Russia be happy to sit back and let this occur? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack,</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span></span>

====That destroys the environment and causes INSTANT extinction==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wickersham 11 </span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">humankind</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> still </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">faces the distinct possibility of </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">instant extinction</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> without representation. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If nuclear war occurs between Russia and the United States, there will be</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> no parliamentary or Congressional debates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">no</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">r </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">declarations of war.</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">In a time of crisis</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> or perceived attack, the Russian and U.S. presidents each have only a few minutes to make a decision to order an attack against each other. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The time frame for </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">those </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">decisions could be as short as </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">seven minutes</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> depending on the nature of the perceived attack and the efficiency of communications within the respective early-warning chains of command. Launch-to-landing time for submarine-launched nuclear missiles can occur in as few as four minutes. Launch-to-landing time for hundreds of land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles is about 25 minutes. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">An attack with </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">just two</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> 1-megaton nuclear </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">warheads would unleash explosive power equivalent to</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that caused by </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">all the bombs used during World War II</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> For the duration of the Cold War, leaders of the United States and USSR were concerned about the devastation both countries would experience if a nuclear war were triggered by a false alarm attributable to human or technological error. The Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on New York killed nearly 3,000 people, causing massive destruction, chaos and grief. In comparison, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> purposeful or accidental </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear strike between the United States and Russia </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">would kill hundreds of millions in the short term and many more over time caused by worldwide, wind-driven nuclear fallout. Thus, the threat of nuclear war </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is the </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">most serious potential health, environmental, agricultural, educational and moral problem facing humanity</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, said research makes clear the environmental consequences of a U.S.-Russian nuclear war: “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If these weapons are detonated</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the large cities of either of their nations, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">they will cause such catastrophic damage to the global environment that the Earth will become </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">virtually uninhabitable</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for most humans and many other complex forms of life.” (See www.nucleardarkness.org.)</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">It is important for Missourians to be aware that a Russian nuclear attack on the United States would probably incinerate the Honeywell nuclear bomb parts factory in Kansas City, the Boeing Defense, Space and Security plant near St. Louis, and Whiteman Air Force Base, home of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster. </span>


====An attack kills the South Korean economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allison 12</span> (Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, SOUTH KOREA AND THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT keynote address, 3/27/12)
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2. Economic Impact: what would the impact on South Korea be of a nuclear bomb exploding in one of the other great cities of the world? A study by the RAND Corporation estimated that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">direct <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">economic costs of a nuclear terrorist attack on a US port would exceed $1 trillion</span>,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> about ten times the cost of 9/11. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">There would be immediate pressure to close all US ports to prevent another attack</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Given that US ports carry out 7.5% of all global trade activity, the consequences for the world economy would be catastrophic. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Countries with</span> strong export sectors, especially those <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">highly dependent on maritime trade, such as South Korea, would be </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">particularly</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> affected</span>. South Korea is the 13th biggest economy in the world, but its 8th biggest exporter and 9th biggest importer</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. As well as the immediate impact from greatly restricted international trade, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">South Korea’s economy would suffer from the global financial crisis</span> and recession that would almost certainly follow in the wake of the nuclear attack. </span>
====That causes war with North Korea and collapses the global economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ejaz 6</span> (Manzur, World Bank Affiliate, Economist Pak Base http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)
<span class="underline">South Korea economic collapse gathered steam when Moody's rating agency downgraded the South Korean debt bonds to "junk" category</span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 9.0pt;">. It was said that South Korean debt instruments are downgraded to the level of Pakistan or Rawandan bonds. But the rescue package offered to South Korea is many times the size of one given to Pakistan by the IMF. The question arises as to whether this is a case of blatant discrimination or economic and political realities are the basic determinants of such a large discrepancy? A closer examination shows that such a gap exists because of politico-economic realities.</span>****<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> After dragging their feet for weeks, </span>**<span class="underline">US, Japan and other industrial nations led by the IMF have decided to pump another $10 billion into the South Korean economy. The <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">major economic players</span> in the globalized world <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">were scared by the impact of the</span> </span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">imminent </span>**<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">possibility of breakdown of</span> </span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">the </span>**<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">South Korea</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">n</span>**<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">: it could lead to a worldwide recession/depression and the situation may </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">get out-of-hand quickly</span>//<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span> The South Korean example shows that if the economy is of a significant size--<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">South Koreans have the tenth largest economy in the world</span>--and globalized, the economic superpowers and the IMF can go to any extent to rescue it.</span> **<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 9.0pt;">Otherwise, in cases like Pakistan, the major players don't do much other than issue soothing statements or throwing in meager amounts. Japan's economy has been in a lot of trouble for many years and the South Korean economic collapse can further deteriorate the situation: many Japanese financial institutions have become insolvent. The US economy is at its best for now but it can easily tailspin. The IMF has already warned that the present pace of the US economic growth is unsustainable and if proper measures are not taken, it can get into very serious trouble</span>**<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span> Therefore, the US and Japan are acting to rescue the South Korean economy, primarily due to self their interests and only partly because of any benevolent reason. </span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 9.0pt;">Following are the major considerations behind the rescue plan: --The East Asian currencies in general and South Korean in particular have lost about half of their value in the last few months. This means that their exported goods will become much cheaper and the goods produced in Japan and other industrialized countries will not be able to compete with them. Consequently, several production units in the industrialized countries will cease to produce, leading to layoffs and, hence, recession. Therefore, to prop up the battered currencies of South Korea and other East Asian countries is vital for the survival of the industrialized world. --The collapse of South Korean and other East Asian economies will eliminate their ability to import goods from abroad. At present, the US produces high-value goods like machinery, airplanes and defense weapons etc. East Asia, having the sizeable economies and high per capita income, is one of the major markets for the US. If US exports suffer, not only its balance of trade will tilt against it--having serious economic implications-- but also its production will suffer giving rise to recession. Of course, US would like to avert such eventuality at any cost.</span>****<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> --</span>**<span class="underline">South Korea owes more than $160 billion to the foreign banks. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If it defaults on its payments and goes bankrupt, many banks</span> in Japan, US and other western nations <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">will</span> get into a serious crunch: many may </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">burst.</span>// **<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Although, it is claimed that US banks have not a major exposure in this situation but active maneuvering by the six US largest banks to get this package approved shows that the world banking system has very high stakes in this crisis. --US government officials are anxious to forestall a South Korean default because they fear it would cause a further loss of confidence in other emerging market economies, conceivably leading to worldwide recession. Further, </span>**<span class="underline">US multinational corporations are major players in the world economy and a deterioration of the emerging markets can lower their profits triggering a downward spiral of the US stock and bond markets. </span>**<span style="font-size: 4.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">East Asian crisis has already started showing its negative impact on the Wall Street: US stocks market has already lost about 8% to 10% of its value in the last few months. --</span>**<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The South Korean economy has to be propped up because North Korea is still</span></span>


==== ==== 

==== ==== 
==== ====