[[toc]]
See my teammates, Srikar and Pranav's wiki, for everything I might be running.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
(this is the only thing harker might run that is not on anybody else's wiki.)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moral claims have to be grounded in concrete experience, rather than abstract, ahistoric principles which are ethically bankrupt. Ethical theories must be based in actual social realities. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ryn Claes G. **Ryn**—1992. “Universality and History:The Concrete as Normative” From </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/hum.htm|HUMANITAS]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Volume VI, No. 1, Fall 1992/Winter 1993 ©</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/index.htm|National Humanities Institute]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Washington, DC USA.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The reasons why ...stifling philisophical renewal.</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oppression is a social reality that ethics must be grounded in. Morality is the struggle to humanize. This struggle is contextualized by a struggle against dehumanization, the result of oppression. In order for humanization to commence, it becomes necessary to resist oppression in all its forms. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Freire, Paulo. Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Continuum, 2000. Print</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">while the problem..dehumanizes the oppressed.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 1.5;">Plan Text: The United States Federal Government should abolish all correctional institutions on state and federal levels and replace them with rehabilitative programs, thereby destroying the prison-industrial complex. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In the status quo, the United States values retribution over rehabilitation. This value system has led to the explosion of the prison industry and population, thereby creating the prison-industrial complex, whereby prisoners are exploited as cheap labor. This is empirically verified by the United States’ relatively oversized prison population. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vicky Pelaez, March 10, 2008, Global Research, The Prison Industry in the United States: Big Business or a New Form of Slavery?, http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-prison-industry-in-the-united-states-big-business-or-a-new-form-of-slavery/8289</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Human rights organizations...variety of colors.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The punitive functions of the criminal justice system are inherently racist because of the prison. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Angela Davis, 1998, Colorlines, Masked Racism: Reflections on the Prison-Industrial Complex</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Almost two million ...numbers of prisoners.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The prison-industrial complex perpetuates a cycle of oppression whereby the undesirables of society are denied resources, profiled as criminals, and incarcerated. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(same cite as above)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mass incarceration is...of our society</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The prison-industrial complex exists to the benefit of the capitalist elite. Cheap labor runs so thick inside prison walls that exploitation is inevitable.</span>

Stephen Hartnett, 1997, Prison Labor, Slavery, and Capitalism in Historical Context
As the correctional...in their communities


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The modern underclass in capitalist society is defined by their “unexploitable” nature; because they are denied social resources, they can’t work, and thus cannot be exploited in the system. Because they’re useless, the capitalist solution is to imprison them. </span>

Erik Wright 1997, Class counts: comparative studies in class analysis
In contemporary advanced...the underclass lives.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The racially disadvantaged groups of the previous section make up the members of this “unexploitable” class. While in prison, capitalists turn those who could previously not be used into the most exploitable people possible: prisoners.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Earl Smith and Angela Hattery, 2006, Societies Without Borders, If We Build It They Will Come: Human Rights Violations and the Prison Industrial Complex</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">According to Wright...in the US</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The call for abolition not only leads us to the ultimate overthrow of prisons, it also helps us establish steps of reform along the way. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Angela Davis, History is a Weapon, The Challenge of Prison Abolition: A Conversation, [[http://www.historyisaweapon.com/defcon1/davisinterview.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The seemingly unbreakable...resources and services.</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The law-making nature of the aff plan makes it that, even if the plan is not enforced or goes into effect right away, it will begin the process of overturning the status quo. This takes out arguments about the on-face solvency of the plan; the fact that the plan is passed via fiat gives it solvency. </span>

Edna Ullman Margalit, Cass R. Sunstein, 2001, Philosophy and Public Affairs, Inequality and Indignation
The disadvantaged...commitment to change.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Talking about the prison-industrial complex is a necessary step in overturning the oppressions detailed in the case. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Same sudbury cite as above.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Of course, the...anti-globalization projects.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Debate has maximal value when we use our arguments to express our personal beliefs as democratic citizens. We move beyond making empty arguments that we don’t believe in. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gordon R. Mitchell, 1998, Argumentation and Advocacy, Pedagogical Possibilities for Argumentative Agencies in Academic Debate</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In basic terms...world around them.</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Prison denies disadvantaged youth the opportunity for real education. Debate is key not only to bring education into oppressed communities like prison, but also to give us, the privileged, perspective on real-world issues. </span>

Bryan McCann, 2007, Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies, Vol. 4, No. 4, Fighting the Prison Industrial Complex: A Call to Communication and Cultural Studies Scholars to Change the World
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Consider the successful...lead to it. </span>











==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]