[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Heritage Hall 1AC== 
==1AC== 
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Observation One is Inherency</span>**=== 

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey has lived up to its hype but Congress has refused to fund the last phase of the project. Thompson, 2011</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Dr. Loren B. Thompson, Loren B. Thompson is Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, a for-profit consultancy. Prior to holding his present positions, he was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown, “V-22 Is The Safest, Most Survivable Rotorcraft The Marines Have,” 16 February 2011, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/v-22-is-the-safest-most-survivable-rotorcraft-the-marines-have?a=1&c=1171]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Over the last ten […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">stay on track</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

===**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 20pt;">Thus the Plan: To increase the investment in transportation infrastructure the USFG will fully fund production of the V-22 Osprey aircraft. The Osprey will be made the primary aircraft for active transport in the United States Military in addition to being the aircraft of choice for responding to disasters within the United States. Additionally, the USFG will also make the V-22 Osprey available for purchase to foreign governments. We reserve the right to fiat and will clarify in CX and all affirmative speeches. </span></span>**=== 
=== === 
**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Next is Solvency</span></span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey key to efficient military deployment and maintaining deterrence posture. Fackler 12</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Fackler, Martin. "U.S. Sends New Aircraft to Okinawa, Despite Fierce Opposition." The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Oct. 2012. </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/world/asia/united-states-military-sends-ospreys-to-okinawa-despite-fierce-opposition.html?_r=3&]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> ) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; line-height: 1.5;">RR</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The first […]hot spots like Taiwan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> and a group of disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft can help with rescue missions and the delivery of precious supplies including artillery, medical supplies, and troops while assisting with disaster response. Lenzo, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Lance Cpl. Timothy Lenzo, U.S. Marine combat correspondent and DVIDS Journalist, “Dawn Blitz prepares Marines for rapid crisis response,” DVIDShub.net, 28 September 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.dvidshub.net/news/77741/dawn-blitz-prepares-marines-rapid-crisis-response#.UOE2xLYVwy7|http://www.dvidshub.net/news/77741/dawn-blitz-prepares-marines-rapid-crisis-response#.UOE2xLYVwy7]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">CH-53E Super Stallions […] that,” said Rader</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

===**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Advantage One is Disaster Strikes</span></span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Iran poses a bioterrorist threat Globally</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Bansak 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Kirk C. Bansak is a graduate student at the¶ Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at¶ Tufts University, 11/1/2011, Bulletin of The Atomic Scientist, Managing networks of risk:¶ A tailored approach to Iran’s¶ biological warfare threat¶ potential, EbscoHost] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">While Iran’s strategic […](Central Intelligence¶ Agency, 2003).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Specifically, Bioterror attack in 2013</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Graham and Talent 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Chairman Bob Graham and Vice Chairman Jim Talent,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Hearing on the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2010”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/hearing-on-the-weapons-of-mass-destruction-prevention-and-preparedness-act-of-2010]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">The Commission's Report […] nation state from its use.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft are k2 cutting down response time and sanitizing large scenes; this helps with disaster response. Dwyer, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Captain Dwyer Osprey pilot; experienced under multiple missions, “The Osprey: Bedrock For Con-Ops Change,” 8 October 2010, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.sldinfo.com/new-river-update-on-the-osprey-osprey-speed-and-range-enables-change/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Because of speed[..]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> __amazing__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">for me</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Quick Response k2 stop Spread</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Tyshenko 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[MICHAEL G, PhD, MPA, McLaughlin Center for Population Health Risk Assessment, Bioethics, “MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL AND BIOTERRORISM INDUCED PANDEMICS” EbscoHost] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Given the increasing […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">greatly reduced.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Not containing a biological attack leads to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Of all the […] </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">bioweapons could cause</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

===**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Advantage Two is Hegemony</span></span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey are the future of military forward deployment; the time is now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Rholes 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Ryan Rholes combat correspondent in support of the International Security Assistance Forces "From Concept to Reality: MV-22 "Osprey" Proves Itself in Combat." Boeing: Defense, Space & Security 2011 http://www.boeing.com/ospreynews/2011/issue_02/proven_s31_p2.html) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">RR</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> MV-22 </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Osprey</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[…]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> get into action.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">We isolate three internal links for why Osprey is key to United States Hegemony; first is Air Superiority</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey provides the military with capabilities unmatched by any other aircraft; it can improve military functions substantially. Pike, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[John Pike, site maintainer for GlobalSecurity.org, “V-22 Osprey,” GlobalSecurity.org, 7 July 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/systems/aircraft/v-22.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The aircraft is […] future maintenance actions</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">The second internal link is Military Readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">O</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">sprey usage key to U.S. military readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Braganca 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Braganca, Eric. Lieutenant Colonel Eric Braganca, USAF (Ret.), is a Consultant on Joint Operations with Whitney Bradley and Brown. His last military assignment was as Chief Systems Engineer for the CV-22 in the Joint Program Office."The V-22 Osprey:From Troubled Past to Viable and Flexible Option." JFQ-66: The V-22 Osprey. N.p., Oct. 2012. Web. 25 Dec. 2012. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/v-22-osprey.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">RR</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Combat operations are […] reliance on sometimes questionable allies is </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">The third internal link is Power Projection</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft can be used for a variety of missions in multiple branches of the military; this improves power projection. Pike, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[John Pike, site maintainer for GlobalSecurity.org, “V-22 Osprey,” GlobalSecurity.org, 7 July 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/systems/aircraft/v-22.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG/RR</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The V-22 "Osprey" […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> maximum extent possible</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">American Hegemony is uniquely responsible for stopping world conflict – a world where they don't have hegemony is a world where the globe is bathed in flame and then plunged into darkness – no risk of a turn, US hegemony is net better than no US hegemony. Friedberg, 2010</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Thomas Friedberg, From his book; “America: That Used to be US.”]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">One by one […]</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> our planet</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>






=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]