[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Single Payer AC</span>**=== 

Stuckler et. al. define universal health care:

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">David Stuckler, Andrea B Feigl, Sanjay Basu, Martin McKee. "The Political Economy of Universal Health Coverage" First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research. 2010. [[http://www.pacifichealthsummit.org/downloads/UHC/the%20political%20economy%20of%20uhc.PDF]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The main definition... Primary Health Care</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">st: maximizing well-being</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A is expanded coverage:</span>**


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lack of health insurance causes thousands of deaths.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Madison Park. "45,000 American deaths associated with lack of health insurance." CNN. September 18, 2009. [[http://articles.cnn.com/2009-09-18/health/deaths.health.insurance_1_health-insurance-david-himmelstein-debate-over-health-care?_s=PM:HEALTH]]</span>
"Research released this week... lack of health insurance."


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B is costs:</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Single payer reduces administrative costs, making it cheaper overall.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Paul Krugman (Nobel prize winning economist) and Robin Wells. "The Health Care crisis and what to do about it." February 22, 2006. [[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2006/mar/23/the-health-care-crisis-and-what-to-do-about-it/?pagination=false]]</span>

"Over the years... change in system."

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, the plan will use risk-adjusted advance payments to replace fee-for-service.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Arnold Relman [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> professor emeritus of medicine and of social medicine at Harvard Medical School and the former editor of //The// //New England Journal of Medicine//.]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> "How Doctors could Rescue Health Care." New York Review of Books. October 27, 2011. http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2011/oct/27/how-doctors-could-rescue-health-care/?pagination=false</span>

<span style="color: #111111; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">"However, today’s competitive... need expensive services"</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This eliminates waste and medical errors</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cannon, Michael F. and Alain C. Enthoven. Cannon is a policy analyst with a B.A. in American government from the University of Virginia, and master’s degrees in economics and law & economics (J.M.) from George Mason University, "Markets Beat Government on Medical Errors." May 13, 2008. http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=9394</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"These </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">errors occur... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">other people's mistakes</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C is innovation:</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Public health insurance is better at promoting health innovations. First, private insurance companies have perverse incentives against conducting research.</span>
Jacob S. Hacker. "The Case for Public Plan Choice in National Health Reform." Institute for America's Future. 2008. http://institute.ourfuture.org/files/Jacob_Hacker_Public_Plan_Choice.pdf

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"The simple truth... such information public"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, there is no incentive to improve treatments for chronic conditions. Hacker 2:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"In addition, private insurers... the private sector."</span>

**D is bioterrorism:**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">niversal coverage is key to effectively responding to bioterror.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">An Interview with Laura Kahn. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. "</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kahn works on the research staff of Princeton University's</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Program on Science and Global Security" [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/laura-h-kahn/interview]]</span>

"What constitutes a... universal health-care coverage."

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The threat is high.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jason G. Mathney. "Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction" </span>//__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Risk Analysis.</span>__////<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Volume 27, Number 5, 2007 </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Consultant to the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC. Sommer Scholar s at Johns Hopkins</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Of current extinction... respond to pandemics"</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bioterror risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">John D. Steinbrenner (Brookings Senior Fellow) "Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses." Foreign Policy. 1997.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Although human pathogens... measure it reliably"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, extinction kills a lot of people</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nick Bostrom. "Existential Risk as Global Priority" Global Policy. 2012. [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">"To calculate the... billion human lives"</span>

==Negative== 
===**HSA CP**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Text:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> The US will replace deductions for employer-based insurance with tax-deductible health savings accounts available to all citizens that can be used to purchase health plans or services and provide those eligible for Medicare and Medicaid a voucher that can be used to purchase any plan on the market</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Competition: [</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The cp doesn't affirm because there's no guarantee of comprehensive coverage and doesn't use a government plan]. The cp competes through net benefits</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Advantages:</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lack of individual control is the root cause of waste and poor quality. </span>

Michael Cannon. "Yes, Mr. President, a Free Market can fix Health Care." Policy Analysis. CATO Institute. October 21, 2009.

Government is largely... failure will persist.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Increasing choice saves money and promotes innovation. Ibid.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Eliminating the tax... their individual preferences.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, competition solves for waste and errors</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cannon, Michael F. and Alain C. Enthoven. Cannon is a policy analyst with a B.A. in American government from the University of Virginia, and master’s degrees in economics and law & economics (J.M.) from George Mason University, "Markets Beat Government on Medical Errors." May 13, 2008. http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=9394</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">These </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">errors occur... their health plan.</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Next, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the cp boosts comparative-effectiveness research. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael Cannon. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Better Way to Generate and Use Comparative-Effectiveness Research. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Policy Analysis no. 632. CATO Institute. February 6, 2009</span>

Government interventions also... in coverage decisions

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Comparative-effectiveness research is uniquely good at promoting pharmaceutical innovation</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jerry Avorn, interviewed by Ezra Klein. **[**</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11pt;">Dr. Jerry Avorn is chief of the division of pharmacoepidemiology and pharmacoeconomics at Brigham and Women's Hospital and author of the terrific</span>//<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11pt;">Powerful Medicines: The Benefits, Risks, and Costs of Prescription Drugs]</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Will Health-Care Reform Save Medical Innovation? An Interview With Dr. Jerry Avorn." Washington Post. August 3, 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Comparative effectiveness could... into clinical behavior</span>


===**Innovation DA**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Uniqueness: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">American medical innovation is high in the status quo.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Tyler Cowen, “Poor U.S. Scores in Health Care Don’t Measure Nobels and Innovation” NY Times October 5, 2006</span>

"But the American... than in Europe."

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Link: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Universal health care undermines incentives for medical innovation</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">John C. Goodman (president of the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas, Texas) “Health Care in a Free Society: Rebutting the Myths of National Health Insurance” CATO Institute Policy Analysis, January 27, 2005</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advocates of single-payer... innovation is limited.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Impact:</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A strong pharmaceutical industry is necessary to prevent pandemics and bioterror – US is uniquely key.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, 3/27/05 (Doug, “A strong pharmaceutical industry is the best defense against pandemics”, http://wwww.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20050327/news_lz1e27bandow.html)</span>

For a time... as the enemy

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spending DA</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Universal coverage will cost 2 trillion. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Michael F. Cannon, Cato institute of director of Health Policy Studies, 5/26/09 “How Much Will Universal Coverage Cost?” </span>
[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/05/26/how-much-will-universal-coverage-cost/]])

President Barack Obama... 2 trillion

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Increasing health care spending trades off with other spending that have a greater impact on health. Social programs are more effective at promoting health than expanding healthcare.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ezra Klein (Washington Post columnist). "Wealth-care Reform." The American Prospect. May 20, 2009. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://prospect.org/article/wealth-care-reform]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Our health is... starved for resources</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Klein 2 gives empirics:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ezra Klein. "Health Care doesn't keep people healthy." February 28, 2011. Washington Post. [[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/ezra-klein/2011/02/health_care_doesnt_keep_people.html]]</span>

File this one... health-care expenditures

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]