= = 
[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AFFIRMATIVE</span>= 
Questions:
jammcl1@nths219.org
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Blake- Port Security</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ADV 1 TERRORISM</span>=== 

**Security measures aren’t implemented because of lack of funding and misunderstanding of importance**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Sadovaya, 2012 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">PhD Student (PhD Student at Nanyang Technological University” Maritime Security Requirements for Shipping Companies and Ports: Implementation, Importance and Effectiveness PDF May 27, 2012 http://www.icms.polyu.edu.hk/ifspa2012/Papers/M05.pdf 6/19/12)</span>
Based on ... composing the regulation.

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 3/26</span>** (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
As Mike ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> enriched uranium.</span>

**Attacks on the brink – anti-Muslim video fuels anger**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ephron 9-15</span>** (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span style="font-size: 80%;">The bodies ... a miracle.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Bunn, 2010</span>**(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Complacency about ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">l informing the police. 19</span>

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">MILLIONS of cargo ... Research Service. </span>

**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Calvan 12** (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department ... “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahmed 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> be losers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioterrorism is incredibly easy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Allison 9-7** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capabilities for producing bioterrorist … live in an era of megaterror.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**GSN 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department … will be essential moving forward"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ochs 2** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction… HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A port attack shuts down naval power</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Watts 5** [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Connecting the continental United States … if so, what can we learn from the experience?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Talor et al. 7** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S. Navy has considerable assets … already overburdened airlift resources.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Whiteneck and Clark 11**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In light of global economic and strategic realities … U.S. Navy can no longer do so, it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically deters Iran</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Klare 12** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at The Nation magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to Obama and Panetta … opposition from China and other rising powers.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I**ran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mitchell 3/2** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Few U.S. Senators in recent history … for us and for people all around the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Primakov 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in … does not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A port attack destroys marine ecosystems</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chalk 8** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND Research & Development Corporation, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” 2008, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Attacks also have the potential to … trigger an environmental disaster of this sort.</span>

**Extinction**
**Craig 3**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> (Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law -- McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … and we will take most of the biosphere with us.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ADV 2 ECONOMY</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Flynn 3** (</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and distinguished... would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Attacks don’t need to be successful - perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Clark et al. 7.** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why? Because, in this new world of unexpected and... as a part of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The loss of investorand creditor confidence... another round of negative feedback effects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth through employment is decreasing now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**NYT 8/29** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government data released Wednesday... reduce unemployment, which is at 8.3 percent</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity—facilitate commerce and contribute to national economic growth</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**PR Newswire 11** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since 9/11, the Port Security Grant Program ... to local, regional and national economic growth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic growth is key to prevent conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bernauera 10** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Previous research has shown that reduced levels... well supported by the existing literature.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic decline causes war and miscalculation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Royal 10** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of... speed the customs filing process for U.S. importers.</span>

**The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP**
**Fritelli 5**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – </span>Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]
Ships are the ... for U.S. importers.

**U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Boudreux 6** (Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">During the past ... to these foreigners.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SOLVENCY</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency can overcome various systems—changes can be made to prevent attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Harrald 05** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">[John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By necessity, domestic and international... seafarers do not include terrorists?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Successful port security must ensure adequate funding, overcome political concerns and have standards for implementation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Grant 10**- </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(US port security council (Jay Grant is the Director US Port Security Council and the Chief of InterPort Police; Written June 19, 2012; Accessed June 20, 2012; “A leap in technology: fusion authentication” http://www.porttechnology.org/-images/uploads/technical_papers/PTI-26.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government lead programs ... and hurried implementation.</span>

**Federal level coordination key to successful security**
**Harrald 05** <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">[John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The threat is real... dysfunctional and costly turf battles.</span>
== == 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Blake Round 3 - Port Security</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ADV 1 TERRORISM</span>=== 

**Security measures aren’t implemented because of lack of funding and misunderstanding of importance**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Sadovaya, 2012 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">PhD Student (PhD Student at Nanyang Technological University” Maritime Security Requirements for Shipping Companies and Ports: Implementation, Importance and Effectiveness PDF May 27, 2012 http://www.icms.polyu.edu.hk/ifspa2012/Papers/M05.pdf 6/19/12)</span>
Based on ... composing the regulation.

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 3/26</span>** (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
As Mike ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> enriched uranium.</span>

**Attacks on the brink – anti-Muslim video fuels anger**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ephron 9-15</span>** (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">The bodies ... a miracle.”</span>

**And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy**
**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Bunn, 2010</span>**(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Complacency about ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">l informing the police. 19</span>

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">MILLIONS of cargo ... Research Service.</span>

**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Calvan 12** (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department ... “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahmed 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> be losers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioterrorism is incredibly easy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Allison 9-7** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capabilities for producing bioterrorist … live in an era of megaterror.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**GSN 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department … will be essential moving forward"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ochs 2** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction… HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A port attack shuts down naval power</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Watts 5** [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Connecting the continental United States … if so, what can we learn from the experience?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Talor et al. 7** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S. Navy has considerable assets … already overburdened airlift resources.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Whiteneck and Clark 11**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In light of global economic and strategic realities … U.S. Navy can no longer do so, it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically deters Iran</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Klare 12** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at The Nation magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to Obama and Panetta … opposition from China and other rising powers.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I**ran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mitchell 3/2** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Few U.S. Senators in recent history … for us and for people all around the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Primakov 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in … does not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A port attack destroys marine ecosystems</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chalk 8** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND Research & Development Corporation, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” 2008, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Attacks also have the potential to … trigger an environmental disaster of this sort.</span>

**Extinction**
**Craig 3**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> (Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law -- McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … and we will take most of the biosphere with us.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ADV 2 SEX TRAFFICKING</span>=== 

**Port security investment is key to guard against human trafficking**
**AAPA 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> SOURCE American Association of Port Authorities “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html</span>
Since 9/11, ... our national defense."

**Human smuggling results in sex trafficking**
**US DOS 6** (US Dept. of State, “Fact Sheet: Distinctions Between Human Smuggling and Human Trafficking 2006” U.S Dept of State Diplomacy in Action, January 1, 2006[[http://www.state.gov/m/ds/hstcenter/90434.htm]])
Human smuggling ... trafficking victim.

**Thousands of people are trafficked into the U.S. each year – its stealthy nature allows traffickers to slip under national radars**
**International Affairs 8** [“Current Human Trafficking Crisis,” May 27, 2008 http://suite101.com/article/current-human-trafficking-crisis-a55152]
Millions of people ... at 12.3 million.

**And, human and sex trafficking cases are increasing at an alarming rate - girls arrive in cargo containers at southern ports**
**The Defender Foundation No Date** [“The Problem,” http://thedefenderfoundation.org/?page_id=192]
These cases, ... further sales.

**We have an obligation to reject rape – it’s a type of sexual violence that’s in the spirit of murder and destroys value to life.**
**Wing 97**(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The multiple effect ... misery of others.</span>

**Trafficking denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shattered**
**Hopper and Hidalgo 6** [Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n]
During the ... spiritually shattered. n81

**Every invasion of freedom must be rejected.**
**Petro 74** (Sylvester Petro, professor of law, Wake Forest University, Spring 1974, TOLEDO LAW REVIEW, p. 480.)
However, one ... trafficking in women.

**The devaluation of agency eradicates the capacity to make meaningful political judgments. Agency is a prerequisite for every value and a necessary condition for establishing a just society.**
**Lang 99** (Anthony, Jr. The American University in Cairo, European Journal of International Relations, Vol. 5 (1): 67-107, 1999, p. 77-79
This article proposes ... democracy (Arendt, 1958)

**Human rights are part of a complementary framework—they must be upheld in every instance**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donovan 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James M. Donovan, Tulane University School of Law Library, Louisiana State University, and Ph.D and past chair, California Western School of Law, summer 2001, MC)</span>
Human rights ... rights of others.


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SOLVENCY</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency can overcome various systems—changes can be made to prevent attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Harrald 05** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">[John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By necessity, domestic and international... seafarers do not include terrorists?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Successful port security must ensure adequate funding, overcome political concerns and have standards for implementation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Grant 10**- </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">(US port security council (Jay Grant is the Director US Port Security Council and the Chief of InterPort Police; Written June 19, 2012; Accessed June 20, 2012; “A leap in technology: fusion authentication” http://www.porttechnology.org/-images/uploads/technical_papers/PTI-26.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government lead programs ... and hurried implementation.</span>

**Federal level coordination key to successful security**
**Harrald 05** <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9px;">[John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The threat is real... dysfunctional and costly turf battles.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NEGATIVE</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Questions:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">arihof2@nths219.org</span>