[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**History of Transportation Aff**== 
The ontological death, dehumanization, and psychological violence forced upon the black body were America’s first transportation policies. It all began with the Middle Passage when European ships sailed to the coasts of Africa to strip an entire continent of its people. We will begin this discussion with the true genealogy of transportation in America.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">SCRBC , 05 [The Schomberg center for research in black culture, “The Transatlantic Slave Trade”, http://www.inmotionaame.org/print.cfm;jsessionid=f8302598831358401503385?migration=1&bhcp=1</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">On the first leg of their three-part journey, often called the Triangular Trade, European ships brought manufactured goods to Africa; on the second, ….(from the French for ship), //sippi// in Surinam (from ship), and shipmate in Jamaica. Far from wiping out all traces of their cultural, social, and personal past, the Middle Passage experience provided Africans with opportunities to draw on their collective heritage to make themselves a new people. </span>

From the founding of Jamestown to the revolution most of the immigrants to the US were black, yet this population of 159,000 people was always kept subservient by way of force. The black body had no voice in the law and thus the polices of the land were set into stone.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Magee 09 Rhonda V. Magee, Professor of Law @ The University of San Francisco “Slavery as Immigration” University of San Francisco Law Review Sept 09 pg 6-8</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">I refer to this tendency to exclude Blacks from treatments of U.S. immigration history as the “no-Black” paradigm. …..European migration dominate the last decades of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth century. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The very grammar of the resolution forces linguistic violence upon the world. To suffer under the Resolutions vision is to have INSTABILITY in the world produced by genocide or to not have access to the Privileges OF GENOCIDE. The framing of our world naturalizes violence and makes resistance unthinkable. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Frank **Wilderson**-Uc Irvine 20**10**- Red, Whit and Black- p. 3-6</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Is it still possible for a dream of unfettered ethics, a dream of the Settlement and the Slave estate’siii destruction, to manifest itself at the ethical core of cinematic discourse, when this dream is no longer a constituent element of political discourse in the streets nor of intellectual ……., civil society has recuperated its stability. This is a state of emergency for Indians and Blacks. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The question of whether or not Transportation Infrastructure is good is irrelevant in a world where transportation forces the death of entire races. Civil society is constructed such that we do not see the subjugation, and ghettoization forced on the black body or its junior partners by the institution of white supremacy. When 14,000 slaves exist in the status quo and we do not know it is time to start questioning the logic of our government’s ethicality.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kevin **Bales**, Ron **Soodalter**,**09** [The Slave Next Door: Human Trafficking and Slavery in America Today, pg 13, http://books.google.com/books?id=JZx7isZOytAC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q=ship&f=false]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The government, when it addresses the subject of human trafficking at all, focuses primarily on the area ……. It's a tough question, not least because most Americans are not even sure what defines a slave. </span>

Racism is implicated in the very grammar of our society such that modern day transportation policies are not only shaped by racism but they facilitate it. From the slave ships of the past and present, creation of the interstate highway system, and the African Americans neglected in hurricane Katrina political coherence to the ethico-political structure of our society is what deems the law powerful enough to implicate the legacy of slavery into modernity. 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brenman ‘7[Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to the separation of races: housing, education, and transportation. Of these, transportation receives the least attention by those interested in social justice. Yet people must get from place to place. Social mobility is an important part of the story we tell ourselves as Americans. …….</span><span class="DebateHighlighted" style="font-size: 16px;">**, predatory lending, foreclosure, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus Amena and I, use counter-memories, to advocate for incoherence with the resolution to force an interrogation of civil society’s ethicality. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Transportation infrastructure can never solve institutional racism because no law or policy can eliminate racism. In the same way we are students who have the chance to not be complacent with laws mandated by the corporate elite sitting in Washington. Thus the ballot MUST be used as an unflinching paradigmatic analysis of the slave trades impact on Transportation policy in the status quo. Only in this way can we for see the destruction of civil society, as we know it. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">B.B. **Robinson**, [Ph.D “Responding to Root Causes - Not Symptoms: White Supremacy as a Root Cause of Racism”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Getting down to brass tacks, most Americans will tell you that racism persists, and that racism contributes to the …….White Supremacy are coming to learn to respond to the root causes of their problems, not just the symptoms. </span>

Without the fungibility of the black body Civil Society could not exist forcing a libidinal economy of white supremacy on the world. Only a dialogue that avoids a view from nowhere, one that positions the black body as without the liberty to have ethical representation in the law. Any coherence with the Civil Society will build fortify the chains of white supremacy whereas when you have the power to pose the question of ethicality you also have possibility to break these chains.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Frank B. **Wilderson** III, **2010**, He graduated from Dartmouth College, Columbia University with an MFA, and University of California, Berkeley with a Ph.D. in Rhetoric and Film Studies. He teaches African American studies and drama at the University of California, Irvine Red, White and Black; Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonism. P44-45</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Due to the presence of prior existing relations in a world of contemporaries, no "fear of the fear of the world" is …….</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Here, the Indian comes into being and is positioned by an a priori violence of genocide</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">.</span>


==**Station Aff**== 
**The train has left the station, and with it, it has taken its white power while leaving behind the largely ignored black population to live a life of horror and subjugation. This train left when Katrina hit, as the federal government showed its true concern for the people of New Orleans when they left them there to die**
**Anthony Paul Farley 2k8**
(Anthony Paul Farley, James Campbell Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at Albany Law School, "The Station" 2008)
The train has left the station...one must travel backward in time

**There is no such thing as accident, everything happens for a reason and even Katrina had a reason. It was because of the large neglect of the black body that the federal government had suppressed, showing that transportation policies are LARGELY shaped by the color of ones skin.**
**Zeleza 2k5**
(Paul Tiyambe Zeleza, Professor of Economics and a Novelist, “The political wrath of Hurricane Katrina” [[http://www.blackcommentator.com/150/150_zeleza_katrina.html]], September 15th 2005, DM)
Like most people in the United States....<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the levees that keep New Orleans a livable city below sea level would break</span>

**This form of politics is what leads to the bio politics of disposability. Politics based on racial divisions are clear indicators that black people and people in poverty ARE the disposable population. This is what leads to people living in death row constantly worrying about their lives as they fall victim to these oppressive policies and strategic neglect.**
Giroux 2k6
(Henry Giroux, Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, Page 184-188 DM)
The Bush administration's ideological hostility...disposable in the age of neoliberal global capitalism

**Thus the judge should affirm the 1AC as a critical interrogation for the racial and economic logic of disposability within American transportation policies.**
**We must use the debate space to promote a pedagogical stance against the federal government policies regarding transportation is the ONLY effective way we can spark agency. Thus the role of the ballot is to embrace the pedagogical stance of the affirmative, you are the Paulo Freire of the debate community, using __[[#|education]]__ as a starting point to orient movements against the state**
**Giroux 2k6**
(Henry Giroux, Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster __[[#|University]]__, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, Page 184-188 DM)
Katrina revels that we are living in dark times....outside of the schools

**Only by critical questioning of current federal policies and their implications on oppressed populations can we truly create a more ethical politics where we don’t treat population as disposable. Failure to continuously question powerful elites is what causes subjugation and results in atrocities like Katrina.**
**Young 2k6**
(Iris Young, Political Philosophy Professor at __[[#|the University of Chicago]]__, Katrina: Too Much Blame, Not Enough Responsibility: Too Small a Time Frame, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=158]]/DM)
This brings me to the biggest problem...dangerous levee and bridges
=Negative= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capitalism K:</span>**

**Status quo implementation of transportation infrastructure is profoundly neo-liberal. Policy makers focus on market mechanisms and privatization which leads to subjugation of the working class.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farmer 2011</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sociology Dep’t Roosevelt University Stephanie Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA Environment and Planning http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf]</span>

**Capitalism’s dominant paradigm snowballs into a “spatial fix”- only direct focus on change avoids systemic violence. Action to combat capitalist expansion is key.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Niel </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brenner</span>** and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nik</span> **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Theodore</span>**, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2004</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Assistant professor of sociology a New york university, Assistant Professor in Urban Planning and Policyand Research Director of the Center for Urban Economic Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago, “The Urbanization of Neoliberalism theoretical debates”]</span>

**We must use the debate space to promote a pedagogical stance against the federal government policies regarding transportation is the ONLY effective way we can spark agency. Thus the role of the ballot is to embrace the pedagogical stance of the negative, you are the Paulo Freire of the debate community, using education as a starting point to orient movements against the state**
**Giroux 2k6**
(Henry Giroux, Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, Page 184-188 DM)
Katrina revels that we are living in dark times....outside of the schools


**Capitalism’s neocolonialist expansion is used to justify the mass violence using the politics of disposability. Capitalism seeks to replicate militaristic ideology of the late 1800s, sustaining a constant genocide on the poor.**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 15pt;">Strong</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 15pt;">07</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">an American dissident, now exiled in France, Writer for the Atlantic free press, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">American Ideology: Racism Welded to Capitalism, http://www.atlanticfreepress.com/content/view/806/81/]</span>


**Race K/Station K:**

**The train has left the station, and with it, it has taken its white power while leaving behind the largely ignored black population to live a life of horror and subjugation. This train left when Katrina hit, as the federal government showed its true concern for the people of New Orleans when they left them there to die**
**Anthony Paul Farley 2k8**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Anthony Paul Farley, James Campbell Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at Albany Law School, "The Station" 2008)</span>

**This train is what causes the screen memories that disable political movements. The affirmative suffers from the epistemology of ignorance that tries to engage within the political sphere failing to realize that there is NO way for minorities to participate within the political system. From Plessy v. Ferguson, to the Civil Rights movements, the call for legislative action has deemed subjugation while creating a screen memory of the state about their selective actions.**
**Anthony Paul Farley 2k8**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Anthony Paul Farley, James Campbell Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at Albany Law School, "The Station" 2008)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative’s progressive call for legislation is the opposite of radical grassroots action directly trading off with the challenging of assumptions of white supremacy and policing that fuel militarism </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rodriguez ‘8</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Dylan Rodríguez is Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, where he began his teaching career in 2001. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley, and earned two B.A. degrees and a Concentration degree from Cornell University. He was nationally recognized by Diverse magazine as one of its Emerging Scholars of 2006, and has been a Ford Foundation Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow, //Abolition Now!// P. 93-100//DN) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Selective memory is what caused Katrina, and what causes subjugation within the political system that deems certain populations as being inherently disposable. The law is not an ethical method for us to participate and it is what gives false hope for change that never occurs, because the train has left the station with the black people being left at the station. </span>**
Anthony Paul Farley 2k8
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Anthony Paul Farley, James Campbell Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at Albany Law School, "The Station" 2008)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative to disrupt white supremacy calls for a constant disruptions that uses the black subject to inject a necessary incoherence in the system that are situated in white supremacy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilderson 07</span>** Frank B. Assistant professor of African American Studies and Drama at UC Irvine “The Prison Slave as Hegemony’s (Silent) Scandal,” Warfare in the American Homeland Policing in a Penal

====**The role of the ballot is to decide which team best performatively and scholastically disrupts the processes of anti-Blackness and anti-Redness. You must adopt the role of an unflinching paradigmatic analyst assess the ethical and political nature of the 1AC.**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson 10</span>** [Frank, Professor of African American Studies and Drama at UC Irvine, Ph.D. in Rhetoric/Film Studies from UC Berkeley, “Red, White, & Black”, pp ix-]og

2NRs:
Wake
Elections DA and States CP against ITS
Security K against HSR
Cap K against CCS

GDS
Cap K

Ohio Valley
Race K/Station K

Pennsbury
Station K
Performance FW


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]