**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Neg cites:</span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> Natalie (cotton.candy1177@gmail.com)</span>
**Aff cites:** Zach (<span style="line-height: 1.5;">herpetologist2379@gmail.com)</span>


[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1AC #1</span>= 

===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Observation 1: The Status Quo</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Despite 84% of the population living in metropolitan areas, federal support for mass transit infrastructure is declining </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Regan 7-12 (Ed Regan, 6-7-12, CDM Smith, “Ground Zero: America’s Cities Need New Infrastructure and Transit Funding”, http://cdmsmith.com/en-US/Insights/Funding-Future-Mobility/Exit-3A-Ground-Zero.aspx, 7-12-12)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This is part of a broader neoliberal re-structuring of the urban economy. Decreasing federal support forces localities to generate revenue through increased privatization of public goods. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Brenner & Theodore 02 (Neil, Department of Sociology and Metropolitan Studies Program, New York University and Nik, Urban Planning and Policy Program and Center for Urban Economic Development, University of Illinois at Chicago, Cities and the Geographies of “Actually Existing Neoliberalism”, 2002, [[http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_%20%0dcitiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf|http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_ ]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_%20%0dcitiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf|citiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf]])</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Public transportation is a lynchpin of this neoliberal strategy –privatized infrastructure exacerbates fragmentation and inequality.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Farmer 10(Stephanie Department of Sociology, Roosevelt University, “Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA,” Environment and Planning A, volume 43, pages 1154 ^ 1172)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This continued transfer of transportation from the public to the private is a contraction of the democratic public sphere in the name of expanding private capital</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Harvey 8(David, September-October, PhD Cambridge 1962; Distg Prof, “The Right to the City,” New Left Review, Volume: 53, [[http://www.newleftreview.org/II/53/david-harvey-the-right-to-the-city]])</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Neoliberal control of transportation systems exacerbates social inequalities, liquidates democratic practices, and reduces culture and education to indexes of profitability. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Giroux 4(Henry A., Global TV Network Chair in Communications at McMaster University in Canada, author of The Abandoned Generation: Democracy Beyond the Culture of Fear, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism: making the political more pedagogical,” Policy Futures in Education, Volume: 2, p. 495 and 496, JS)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Being reduced to profitability requires devaluation and dehumanization destroying value to life</span>**

**Dillon 99**

(Michael Dillon, University of Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory Vol. 27, No. 2, Aprill 1999, JSTOR)


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Neoliberalism requires a logic whereby whole populations are sacrificed as collateral damage to the expansion of markets.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Santos ‘03 (Boaventura de Sousa, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, EUROZINE, COLLECTIVE SUICIDE OR GLOBALIZATION FROM BELOW, [[@http://www.eurozine.com/article/2003-03-26-santos-en.html]])</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Neoliberalism is a self-destructing system that destroys its working class - we have to end it now</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pramono 2 (Siswo, School of Social Sciences, The Australian National University, Canberra, [[http://www.fatihun.edu.tr/~jesr/Neoliberalism.pdf]], pg. 121-122) </span>


===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus the Plan:</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should fully fund public development and control of fare-free public transit in all metropolitan areas in the United States.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Observation 2: Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Free mass transit is the key —rejecting commodification of public goods creates genuine political dialogues and offers concrete visions for how to transform material conditions of oppression for the poor.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Schein 11(Rebecca, assistant professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, “Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing the Political Potential of Toronto’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign,” Alternate Routes: A Journal of Critical Social Research, Volume: 22, p. 115) </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">It’s the combination of struggles to define how resources are used, outline the impacts of the order and work to project an alternative vision. The judge’s rejection of neoliberalism in this round is key.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Kotz 3</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (David M., Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts – Amherst, //Socialism and Global Neoliberal Capitalism//, Economics Department and Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts – Amherst, pg. 6-7, [[http://people.umass.edu/dmkotz/Soc_and_Global_NL_Kism_03_03.pdf]], 2003, JKE)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Free mass transit is the starting point --plan builds coalitions and allows for other projects to expand in a proactive movement with a new ontology</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Schein ‘11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Assistant Prof Human Rights –The Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies at Carleton 2011, Rebecca. "Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing thePolitical Potential of Toronto’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign", Alternate Routes volume http://www.alternateroutes.ca/index.php/ar/article/view/14421)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">**Ontology first - challenging the metaphysical assumptions of the relationship between humans and economic policy is key** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Oksala ‘11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Johanna, Senior Research Fellow in the Academy of Finland research project is Philosophy and Politics in Feminist Theory at the University of Helsinki, November 3rd, “Violence and Neoliberal Governmentality,” Constellations, Volume: 18, Pages 482 and 483)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Federal action is key - local and private action leads to social polarization</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barney Warf</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Association of American Geographers, Mar.,2003(Splintering Urbanism: Networked Infrastructures, Technological Mobilities, and the Urban Condition by Stephen Graham; Simon Marvin Review, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, Vol. 93, No. 1, pp. 246-247)</span>





=1AC #2= 
===Contention 1: Inherency=== 
A. In Arabia, there is major transportation infrastructure in Flying Carpets!
B. But, currently, our magic isn't working.


===Contention 2: Harms=== 

A. Right now we're just following the leader and falling behind instead of getting ahead.
B. The sooner we reaffirm our leadership, the better.
C. Having leadership allows us to say ridiculous things and get away with it.
D. We must be prepared to take the next step in transportation innovation.
===Thus the plan:=== 

**__The United States federal government should significantly invest in its transportation infrastructure by wishing upon a star that nature provides us with a whole new world of transportation opportunities that are incredibly cheap and are virtually unanimously accepted by the public.__**


===Contention 3: Solvency=== 

A. The best things comes from nature.
B. Wishing upon a star means we get one hundred percent solvency.
C. Our plan opens up new energy perspectives we could never have imagined.


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All lyrics from above are a property of the Walt Disney Company and were found at:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Song Lyrics Database, Soundtrack Lyrics, “Disney Lyrics”, Accessed 20 January 2009 at [[http://www.stlyrics.com/songs/d/disney6472.html]]</span>


===Contention 4: What is this?=== 
The real is being replaced by the hyperreal, a giant metaphorical Disney World, where images replace reality and become eternal and infinitely repeating in the virtual universe, where the real has become a spectacle, but instead of being outside looking in, we are the spectacle, constant participants in a reality show of violence.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 96</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jean, Professor of philosophy of culture and media criticism at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, March 4, "Disneyworld Company")</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But the Disney enterprise...fourth dimension [la quatrieme dimension]. </span>



===Contention 5: Reality if Forgotten=== 
Our performance has an intrinsic value – language will never be a reference to the real. Instead, our performance can be used to bridge the gap between the Real and what can be individually accomplished.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 95</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jean, Professor of philosophy of culture and media criticism at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, April 19, "Radical Thought")</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Our point is not...bit more enigmatic.</span>


===Contention 6: Struggle Against the Simulation=== 
Our aff is a struggle against the simulation. Consumerism and economic growth are viewed as inherently good. Rampant consumerism’s logical end is showing through: viewing the very Earth we reside upon as disposable.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Monbiot 10</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“After this 60-year Feeding Frenzy, Earth Itself has Become Disposable”, Published by [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/jan/04/standard-of-living-spending-consumerism|The Guardian/UK]], © 2010 Guardian News and Media Limited, January 5, 2010, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/01/05-7 (HEG))</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Who said this...which we measure wealth.</span>


===Contention 7: Framework=== 

Second, traditional debate desensitizes us to the suffering of others; rather than proving a framework for activism, this speculative mindset of “fiat” only rewards oppression and suffering of others.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell 98</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Professor of Communications @ Univ. of Pittsburg], “PEDAGOGICAL POSSIBILITIES FOR ARGUMENTATIVE AGENCY IN ACADEMIC DEBATE”, Page 3, Argumentation & Advocacy, Vol. 35 Issue 2, Page 43, 1998 (HEG)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">The sense of detachment...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">political life" (1991, p. 8).</span>



Prefer our performance act over their rigid adherence to the political texts they hold sacred. With language rendered meaningless, our performative act attempts to reclaim the language that has been bankrupted by political discourse within policy debate.
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Artaud ’58</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Antonin, French playwright, poet, and actor. “The Theater of Cruelty” from Theater and its Double pp. 89-90]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">We cannot go on...of these ideas</span>

An assertion of predictable limits and ground are a fortification of the topic which situates itself against the unintelligible grid of the nothing. This exclusion allows us to speak from a position of radical otherness, which will inevitably resurge as a violent form of implosion.
**Baudrillard ’96**
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">(Jean, “The Perfect Crime: The Revenge of the Mirror People”, Verso 2008, translated by Chris Turner, pp. 149-150)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Here beings the...be your mirror!</span>


=1AC #3= 
===­­Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
The US currently lacks sufficient icebreaker capabilities to open up sea lanes of transportation around the United States
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beilinson 12</span>,Deputy Editor of Popular Mechanics, 12 (Jerry, February 17th, “Why the U.S.
Must Build More Icebreakers Now,” Popular Mechanics, http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must- build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)
Coast Guard cutters … a changing world.

===Thus the Plan:=== 
The United States federal government should modernize the icebreaker fleet for icebreaking operations in the United States.

===Contention 2 is Arctic War=== 
The Arctic zone will be the next arena for global military conflict – the US has fallen behind in the currently militarizing ice race
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huffington Post 12 </span>4/16/12, “Arctic Climate Change Opening Region To New Military Activity.” Eric Talmadge. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change- military-activity_n_1427565.html
To the world's …to add more icebreakers.

Ice breakers are a key to keeping up – failure to modernize the fleet ensures that the US will fall behind
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Davis 11 </span>Young Leaders Program at Heritage Foundation, 11 (Tyler, December 9, 2011The Lone¶ Icebreaker: U.S. Sovereignty in the Arctic,” http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone- icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/, Heritage foundation)
The United States …for the Arctic.

Icebreakers are the biggest internal link to all US activity in the Arctic – the plan is key to ensuring US leadership
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 6/ 14. </span>Ronald O’Rourke “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress.” Congressional Research Service. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf
[The study] concludes…both Polar Regions.

This allows the US to play a critical role in de-escalating Arctic conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NRC et al 07 </span>(National Research Council , Polar Research Board,Marine Board (MB)Earth and Life Studies (DELS)Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “ Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs.” Online PDF at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753#orgs )
In the Arctic, …this necessary data.

Absent de-escalation, current militarization will ensures Arctic conflicts go nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace and Staples, 10 </span>(Michael Wallace and Steven Staples, *Professor Emeritus at the¶ University of British Columbia AND ** President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic- nuclear-report-web.pdf)
The fact is, …of climate change.” 62

===Contention 3 is Methane=== 
The Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duarte and Huertas 10/18</span> (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia
and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”,http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html)
The risk with …the razor edge.

Only extraction solves methane
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen ‘10</span> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517)
Well, of course, …cause natural degassing.

Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DOE 5/2/12</span> (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies)
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. …well testing program).

US control of Arctic ice key to extraction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hargreaves</span> 7/19/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm)
These and other …of an icebreaker.

Methane explosion causes extinction of life and massive warming
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ryskin ‘3</span><span style="color: #222222;">- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, "Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions" p. 742)</span>
The consequences of …nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).

Empirically proven - methane explosions come first - they happen in hours and are inevitable without the aff
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dorritie 7</span> (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007,http://www.killerinourmidst.com/)
Deep beneath the … centuries to millennia.

===Contention 4 is Oil Spills=== 
Current capabilities can’t solve for Arctic spills – US can’t get access to spills quickly enough to effectively cleanup
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kroh et al ’12</span> (KileyKroh,AssociateDirectorforOceanCommunications at theCenter for American Progress,Michael Conathan,DirectorofOcean Policy at theCenterforAmerican Progress,and EmmaHuvos, February 2012. “Putting a Freeze on ArcticOceanDrilling.”Center forAmericanProgress. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf )
Obviously the Beaufort … and possible production.”

Icebreakers are key to mitigating oil spills – opening up sea lanes allows for rapid response times
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan 2/27</span>/12. John A. Sullivan, news editor for Oil and Gas Investor. “Coast Guard Muscles Up Arctic Presence in¶ Advance of Drilling.” Natural Gas Week. Lexis.¶ http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/returnTo.do?returnToKey=20_T15105743963
Meanwhile, a Center …invested in icebreakers.

Arctic oil spills would devastate the local ecosystem
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kollewe and Macalister 12 </span>4/11/12. Julia Kollewe and Terry Macalister. “Arctic oil rush will ruin ecosystem, warns Lloyd's of London.” The Guardian. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/apr/12/lloyds-london-warns-risks-arctic-oil-drilling
The authors point …run by companies".

Arctic ecosystem key to global biodiversity
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gill 9, </span>Chair of the Circumpolar Biodiversity Monitoring Program, 2009. Michael Gill, 3-6 March 2009, “ABSTRACT: BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES.” UNESCO. http://www.unesco.org/csi/LINKS/monaco-abstracts/Gill_abstract_MonacoUNESCOarctic.pdf
Arctic ecosystems and …and human survival.

Loss of biodiversity leads to extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Environment News Service 2005</span>. May 24, 2005. “Humans Undermining the Very Biodiversity Needed for¶ Survival.” http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/may2005/2005-05-24-01.html
In the last …of future generations.

===Contention 5 is Overfishing=== 
There is pressure being put on marine species in the Arctic now - overfishing practices are expanding
UBC 11 (The University of British Columbia, February 4, “Arctic fisheries catches 75 times higher than previous reports: UBC research”,http://www.publicaffairs.ubc.ca/2011/02/04/arctic-fisheries-catches-75-times-higher-than-previous-reports-ubc-research/)
University of British … so-far neglected ecosystem.”

Icebreakers are key to preventing overfishing
ABS Consulting 10 (independent consulting group hired to asses coast guard polar requirements, July 2010, “United States Coast Guard High Latitude Region Mission Analysis Capstone Summary” http://assets.fiercemarkets.com/public/sites/govit/hlssummarycapstone.pdf)
Existing capability and … kind is problematic.

The brink is now, the impact can happen by 2020
Black 10 (Richard Black, environment correspondent for BBC, October 18, 2010, “'Ten years' to solve nature crisis, UN meeting hears,”http://goo.gl/4l6c)
The two-week gathering … and why it matters."<span style="font-family: 'MS Gothic';">ｶ</span>

Overfishing is the biggest internal link - puts us over the brink
UN 6 – United Nations (Nick Nuttall, Head of Media Services, United Nations Environment Programme, “Overfishing, a Threat to Marine Biodiversity”, http://www.un.org/events/tenstories/06/story.asp?storyID=800)
The magnitude of … rate of forests.

Loss of biodiversity causes extinction - irreversible and outweighs nuclear war
Chen ‘2K [Professor of Law and Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar, University of Minnesota Law School (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers, Winter 2000, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157, Lexis)
Conscious decisions to … a hundred million. 348


===Solvency=== 
Icebreakers are in high demand world-wide, makes renting or leasing ships nearly impossible
**NRC et al 07** (National Research Council, Polar Research Board, Marine Board (MB) Earth and Life Studies (DELS) Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs.”Online
PDF a<span style="color: black;">t http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php</span>?record_id=11753#orgs )
A workshop on …to grow (Mikko Niini, personal communication, 2005)

The Coast Guard would coordinate with many federal agencies to achieve long term solvency
**GAO (**An analysis of the reports assembled by various government offices 12/01/**11**
[GovernmentAccountability Office] DHS-OIG“Report ontheCoast Guard'sPolarIcebreakers” <span style="color: black;">http://www.gao.gov/htext/d12254t.html</span>)
The Coast Guard …Directive 25.[Footnote 37]

Scientific research, primacy, trade, and U.S.sovereignty are four independent reasons icebreakers must stay federal
**T****readwell__,__**13th and current Lieutenant Governor of Alaska and former Chair of the U.S. Arctic Research Commission, **‘6** (Mead, CQ Congressional Testimony, “REPORT ON ICEBREAKERS”,LexisNexis, DOA: 7-11-12)
While scientific research …accessible by icebreakers.

=Negative= 

Email Natalie if you'd like anything specific.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]