= = 
[[toc]]
Email Alan "Swag Peck" Peck for aff cites - peck.alan1218[at]gmail[dot]com
Email Sam Lagerstrom for neg cites - lagerstrom16[at]gmail[dot]com

FYI-- I'm leaving the "Swag Peck" thing there, b/c Dustin created the wiki and he put it there. And he gives me good cards, so I'm leaving it. I'm not pretentious enough to actually call my self "swag peck." Also, please don't call me "swag peck." If the words "Swag" or maybe even "Peck" are sent in your cite request, it will be ignored.

He's just kidding, he won't respond to cites unless it includes "Swag Peck" or "Swagga Peck" or if you're gutsy "Swaqqa Peck" in the email. If you want full text, the subject field must include "Swaggarific Citez"

Yeah, no, ignore the note just above this. As much as we all love DML's antics and sense of humor, any email containing "swag," or any of the names above while be marked as spam.

Also, required Trivia for cite requests, answer wisely-

1. Which are cuter: puppies or kittens?

2. How much wood, could a wood chuck chuck, if a wood chuck could chuck wood?

3. What was the answer to the question that won Cady Heron the mathlete state championship in the film, "Mean Girls?"

If you want full text, all this must be done, and must written in form of a Haiku. I will expect a picture of a bunny to be emailed in return.

=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#Affirmative-Disabilities]]Disabilities</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC-Glenbrooks</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Plan- the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Contention One: Immobility</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed persons with disabilities from society by denyting them of their mobility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]]</span>)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Transportation and mobility play key roles </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">has meant very uneven progress.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render persons with disabilities prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Persons with disabilities are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Langan, 2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To think about mobility disability is to think</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">dominant framework for understanding disability</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">in the modern </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">reductionism may</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> at its worst </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">translate into a politics of genocide</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The medicalization of life and the biological degradation of certain segments of the species is the root cause of conflict – wars are fought and life is exterminated not because of particular geopolitical interests but because of the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Elden, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stuart, Professor of Politics at the University Warwick, Boundary 2, 29.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">reverse side is the power to allow death. State racism is a</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">many wars, causing so many men to be killed.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Biopolitics is the root cause of racism, genocide, and all forms of violence</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Evans 10 </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">(Brad Evans is Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations, “Foucault’s Legacy: Security, War, and Violence in the 21</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">st</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> Century,” Security Dialogue August 23, 2010 vol. 41 no. 4 413-433, dml)</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Having established that the principal task set for biopolitical</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">violence of contemporary liberal occupations </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">is removed from the analytical arena.</span>


**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative is a recognition of difference - this allows us to shut down the impetus for total war</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Evans 10 –</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;"> Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">(Brad, “Life Resistance: Towards a Different Concept of the Political,” Deleuze Studies Volume 4: 2010 supplement: 142–16, dml)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">When power takes life to be its object, resistance to power</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">universe is homogenised, power struggles become a matter of pure strategy.</span>__


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Federal action key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fine& Hall 10 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">- Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich(Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Our current understanding of disability within transportation policy makes it such that the perspective of persons with disabilities is always relegated to the periphery. Traditional assumptions about transportation blame individuals for their lack of accessibility and consider them ultimately responsible for their own mobility. Only repoliticizing transportation infrastructure can shift responsibility to the institutions that maintain exclusion and can open space to expose our complicity in ableist structure of knowledge. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Koch, 2008</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Making my way slowly toward the geography building I wondered </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">equal access to all will be not simply a political ideal but a social goal in transit planning.</span>__**


**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Risk assessment operates from a model of control – that which is unknown may be a threat and must be eliminated – this drive culminates in an endless state of war and control</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Aradau and Van Munster 5 - </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Southern Denmark</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Claudia and Rens, “Governing Terrorism and the (Non-) Politics of Risk,” Political Science Publications No. 11, pg 14-18, dml)</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">IV Taking precautions against terrorism and the (non-)politics of risk </span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">politics continually haunts the attempt at governing and reclaims decision, struggle and contingency.</span>__


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">As students participating in policy debates we have an obligation to put disability at the center of our discussion because what we debate about here says a lot about human conduct on a larger scale – that is not a metatheoretical quibble but central to change the way that disability is represented and conceived </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé, 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have understood disability in these terms. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">their own good, and for the good of democracy, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Disabilities-1AC-Dowling Round 6]]<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC-Dowling Round 6</span></span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed persons with disabilities from society by denying them of their mobility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]]</span>)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for </span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render persons with disabilities prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Persons with disabilities are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Langan, 2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">And thus Speed, in its peculiar way, introduces an even newer category of political subject than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We discriminate against persons with disabilities, labeling them as less than human, status quo decisions isolate them society by labeling them as an “inferior other.”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">IDHRN 07</span>**<span style="color: #3f3f3f; font-family: Georgia;">(International Disability and Human Rights Network, “Are Disabled People Human?,” Published in 2007 at the earliest<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.daa.org.uk/uploads/pdf/Genetics,%20Ethics%20and%20Disability.pdf]]</span>, ADP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">One of our characteristics is the ability to discriminate and to make value judgements</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">non-custodial sentences. These stories are just the tip of the iceberg. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Exclusion of the disabled body is emblematic of a refusal of our ultimate finitude as human beings – the plan is critical to an ethic of vulnerability that recognizes the sovereignty and value of all forms of life</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">McArdle 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">(Patrick, Head of schools of theology, assistant professor of health care ethics, at Australian Catholic University, PhD in practical theology, masters in Moral Theology and Education, “Disability and Relationality: disrupting complacency entering into vulnerability,”//Australian eJournal of Theology//, December, 2010,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://aejt.com.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0013/301045/6.AEJT10.23_McArdle_DisabilityandRelationality_Formatted.pdf]]</span>, ADP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Here we face the question: would not a more relational anthropology of human</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">different to what they hear in the media and even in school or at university.31</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The logic of control exemplified by the destruction of Otherness can only culminate in planetary extinction through mechanization – we must acknowledge our ultimate finitude.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Joronen 11 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">coordinator of the Geography graduate school at the University of Turku</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Mikko, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe”, Antipode Volume 43, Issue 4, pages 1127–1154, September 2011) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps one of the most striking examples of the need for non-violent resistance and power-free following of the abyssal earth </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">and domination of nature, capable of calling the living earth a home. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Placing the perfectly abled as first priority devalues the existence of the Other – the impact is endless nihilism and genocide</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Introna 9 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Theory, Culture & Society</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;"> 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">In the ethics of hybrids </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">our ethical relationship with things is determined </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">might provide us with some hints towards the overcoming of ethics, towards an ethos of letting-be of all beings.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The aff is the recognition of alterity which allows to rethink disabilitity as more than the empathetic identification the status quo imposes, authorizing violence and totalitarianism. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Schormans 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">(Beverley Ann Fudge, Assistant Professor of Social Sciences at McMaster University, Ph.D., Factor-Inwentash Faculty of Social Work, University of Toronto, M.S.W., McMaster University, B.S.W., York University, B.A. (Psych), McMaster University, B.P.E., McMaster University “The Right or Responsibility of Inspection: Social Work, Photography, and People with Intellectual Disabilities,” //University of Toronto//, 2011, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/29725/1/FudgeSchormans_BeverleyAnn_201106_PhD_thesis.pdf]]</span>, ADP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Emmanuel Levinas</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">‟</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> work on the ethical responsibility to the Other,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to re-think disability as devalued difference, to re-think that which we think we know. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thus, we advocate that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Federal action key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**Fine& Hall 10** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">- Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich(Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">most obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitability and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">’, 70 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Levinas insists that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The victimization of disability is justified by a moral calculus that privileges catastrophic discourses. Confronting our understanding of disability must be situated at the forefront of ethical deliberation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Clapton 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[Jayne Clapton. Centre for Work, Leisure and Community Research at Griffith University. October 2003. “Tragedy and catastrophe: contentious discourses of ethics and disability”. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research 47:7. Pages 542-544//fitz.//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Within the conjunction of disability as personal tragedy and bioethics as medical </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Legal jurisdictions of the notions of ‘wrongful life’ and ‘wrongful birth’ (Ossorio 2000) are also embedded in such a moral views.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Humanity is a tiny speck in the history of a universe that will inevitably die – in the face of uncontrollable catastrophe and cosmic flux, ethics must enter first in your decision calculus</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Clark 10 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Senior Lecturer in Geography at Open University</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, “Ex-Orbitant Generosity: Gifts of Love in a Cold Cosmos”, Parallax, Vol. 16, No. 1, Pg. 80-95, dml)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Harman has no qualms about positing nonhuman objects that attract and repel each other. 50 He conceives of </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">vacillate between turning toward and turning away has a defining quality. If not us, then who?</span>//

//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Their framework limits out alterity – engaging the unknown is the precondition to ethical politics and should be first priority</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Jones 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel, University of Dundee, “On the Value of Not Knowing: Wonder, Beginning Again and Letting Be,” As presented at ‘On Not Knowing’, a Symposium hosted by Kettle’s Yard and New Hall College, Cambridge, 29th June 2009, to accompany the exhibition ‘Material Intelligence’, Kettle’s Yard, 16 May – 12 July 2009)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Thus described, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">wonder is the passion that can accompany not knowing</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">the possibility of recommencing, of thinking again and beginning anew</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We end with the story of Harry Ramos, who demonstrates that we have an obligation to reach out to the Other even with our world crashing down around us.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Jovanovic and Wood 4 – *</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively [all highlighting is read; blue denotes the performative aspect of the speech act]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334, dml)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">On September 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">, 2001, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">terrorism touched down</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;"> in the United States. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">While millions</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">It is </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">no longer "we" but "I"</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> who will be </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">with </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">the man who is not going anywhere in the heart of an inferno.</span>//

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- Cap K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Case is a prerequisite to the K- ableism makes classism and other oppression inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Siebers 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> - (Disability Aesthetics” Tom Siebers 2010)bs</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">__the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority__ </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Plan breaks down the system</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell AND</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Snyder, ’10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> -PhD Michigan and executive director of the Institute on Disabilities, AND Assistant Professor of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago (David T. and Sharon L “Disability as Multitude Re-working Non-Productive Labor Power” Temple University and Independent Scholar, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 4.2 (2010), 179-194)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">It may seem strange to cite disability movements in the context of a</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">are also the expression of living labor. ("Kairos," 225)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Representations of capitalism as hegemonically dominant preclude the realization of actual social change. Changing this view is a pre-requisite to the alt</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Gibson-Graham 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> – J.K., pen name shared by feminist economic geographers Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson (“The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political Economy”, pg 2-5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">The End of Capitalism (As</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">A long shot perhaps but one worth pursuing. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Disabilities-2AC- DNG]]<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- DNG</span></span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">We can rewrite the physical space through demanding inclusion for disability.</span>**

**//Quinlan and Bates 2012//** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Margaret M. Assistant Professor of Communication and a Core Faculty Member of the Health Psychology Ph.D. Program at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.; Benjamin R, Associate Professor Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Communication Studies Ohio University "Walking In The City": Performance Of Strategies And Tactics In The 1985 Bus Accessibility Protests Disability Studies Quarterly Vol 32, No 1 (2012))</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the temporary concordance of strategies and tactics</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">to expand the tablet upon which their bodies can write.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Their radical affirmation of lines of flight and smooth space will inevitably restratify itself into exactly what it fought and will lead to unimaginable violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Diken in ‘1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Bülent Diken, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University, and Carsten Bagge Laustsen, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September 2001, online: </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/papers/Diken-Laustsen-Enjoy-Your-Fight.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Fight Club is constructed along a line of flight in the Deleuzian </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">when fight club starts and when fight club ends” (Palahniuk 1997: 48).</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Disabilities-2AC- States CP]]<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- States CP</span></span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Federal government is key to transportation infrastructure accessibility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">ECMT, 2000 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(The European Conference of Ministers of Transport, “Improving Transport for People with Mobility Handicaps,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/Pub/pdf/99TPHguideE.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Both central and local government should have responsibilities </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">sensible that wherever they are provided they should be of the same design. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Their counterplan is based on an overly rational bureaucracy that enables mass violence against disabled populations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">’</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Their approach objectifies persons with disabilities– subjecting plan to outside decision is the ultimate gaze – functions as oversight</span>**
**<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, </span>__<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">1999</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Department of Social Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, “The Constitution of Impairment: Modernity and the Aesthetic of Oppression”, Disability & Society, Vol. 14 No. 2, p. 155-172, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">To look at, is to command a visual field, to oversee a `</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Yet, in the same moment, the possibility of resistance is evident.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Disabilities-2AC- Politics (Generic)]]<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- Politics (Generic)</span></span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The political process is rigged to exclude persons with disabilities– to make your decision based upon political capital and bargaining is to render your decision complicit in the systematic exclusion of the disabled – the impact is our case</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Orentlicher, 1996</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(David, Professor of Law at Indiana University, 31 Harv. C.R.-C.L.L. Rev. 49, Winter) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">A more expansive interpretation of the ADA </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">effects of socio-political forces on disability.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Public support for helping those with disabilities</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Diament, 2010</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Michelle, Co-founder of DisabilityScoop.com – a leading news source for disability issues, “Poll Shows Public Support For Community Living”, April 28, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.disabilityscoop.com/2010/04/28/poll-community-living-act/7854/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">A Harris </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Interactive poll released Wednesday </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">to ensure that the civil rights of individuals in all states are met.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Political capital isn’t real and their approach breeds violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ruby-Sachs 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Emma Ruby-SachsLawyer Posted: November 24, 2008, J.D. from the University of Toronto and practices civil litigation with Sutts Strosberg LLP, Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html]]</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The classic approach to politics is to rank priorities </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">and social liberals in a time when consensus is essential.</span>


=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#Negative]]Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Kritiks</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Heteronorm</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**Heteronormativity results in a drive toward global omnicide – universal suspicion of Queerness with the will to destroy it leads to total extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sedgwick 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eve, Professor of English at Duke University, Epistemology of the Closet, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130 – we do not advocate ableist language)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From at least the biblical story of Sodom and Gomorrah, s</span><span class="Underline">cenarios </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">desire, and thought between minority potentials and universalizing ones be opened and opened and opened?</span>

<span class="Underline">**Thus the alternative – reject the 1AC to resist heteronormativity – Resistance is key to reinscribe politics towards an inclusive model**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Steyaert 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen, January 2010, Chris, Gender, Work and Organization., “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The rich artistic output that Jarman realized under difficult circumstances</span>
<span class="Underline">AND</span>
<span class="Underline">only relations possible are extremely few, extremely simplified, and extremely poor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#Negative-Intel]]<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Intel</span></span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Glenbrooks</span>=== 

__Round 1: Highland Park TS (Critical Bikes)__

1NC: T-Vehicles
Framework
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
Heidegger K (2NR)
Case D
Automobility Good (2NR)

__Round 3: Wayzata GL (Alaska Ports-Oil Spills and Heg)__

1NC: Russia De-alert CP (2NR)
Fiscal Cliff DA
Pos Peace K
Case D
BioD loss good
Heg Bad (2NR)

__Round 5: Blue Valley West BY (Dredging- Navy and Trade)__

1NC: T-maintenence
Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)
MDA CP (2NR)
Breila K
Case D

__Round 7: Leland LK (Inland water ways- Econ, agriculture, natural disasters)__
1NC: T-maintenence
Oil DA
Cap K
Case D (2NR)
Dedev (2NR)

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Dowling</span>=== 

__Round 2: SFL MK (HSR-Heg/Oil)__

1NC: T-Vehicles
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Heteronorm K (2NR)
Case D
Heg Bad

__Round 4: Appleton East MS (HSR-Competitiveness/Warming)__

1NC: T-Vehicles
Russia De-Alert CP
States CP
VAWA DA
Heidegger K
Case D
Dedev (2NR)
Heg Bad

__Round 5: Millard West MS (NIB for public transportation-Unemployment)__

1NC: T-capital investment
Solvency Advocate Procedural
PIC out of NIB
Minimum Wage CP
Cap K (2NR)
VAWA DA
Case D

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Blake</span>=== 


__Round 2: Wayzata NS (NIB- Growth/PPP's)__

1NC: T-Capital Investment
XO CP
Breila K (2NR)
Case D
Dedev

__Round 3: Bronx OI (Climate Adaption- Econ/Heg__

1NC: T-maintenence
Fiscal Cliff DA
Restore America's future CP
Heidegger K
Case D (2NR)
Heg Bad (2NR)

__Round 6: CK McClatchy HK (Icebreakers- Mapping/Artic)__

1N: T-in the US
Russia CP
Russia Relations DA
Coast Guard T/O DA
Cap K (2NR)
Case D

__Round 7: Iowa City OS (Dredging w/ HMT funding mechanism- Econ/Heg)__

1N: T-cap invest.
States CP
VAWA DA (2NR)
Heidegger K
Case D (2NR)
Heg Bad
Dedev (2NR)

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">NFL Qual's</span></span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>
__Round 2: Wayzata GH (Alaska Ports- Heg/Oil Spills)__

1NC: T-inc=pre-existing
Ban oil drilling/oil shipping in Alaska CP (2NR)
Hagel DA
Security K
Case D (2NR)
Heg Bad (2NR)
Russia Co-op turns (2NR)
Biod D turns
<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>
__Round 3: Wayzata NL (Alaska Ports- Heg/Oil Spills)__
<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>
Pretty sure the exact same as the last round, except we ran Hillman instead of security (we're horrible people).

__Round 6: Wayzata JD (Culture Jamming)__

1NC: Framework (2NR)
T-T/I
Introna K
Taoism K
Fuck K
Case (kinda, sorta, not really, what is case anyway?)


<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"> </span>