=Politics DA= 
==Fiscal Cliff== 
Normally we read Fiscal Cliff. Obviously that would change next year. We don't put up the cites because it changes all the time, if you need them, email either Kris or Lizzie

==2013 National Defense Authorization Act/Guantanamo Bay== 
This was read a couple of times at Blake and it won't be read again, most likely.
=Civil Disobedience DA= 
**A) By participating in this tournament while knowingly rejecting the resolution, an agreed upon norm, our opponents are acting as civil disobedients. Though they have the right to challenge rules they believe to be unjust, their request for the ballot is contradictory to the goals of their resistance.**
**A.D. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Woozley 76</span>** (Professor of Moral Philosophy at University of Virginia, “Civil Disobedience and Punishment,” Ethics, Vol. 86, No. 4. (Jul., 1976), pp. 323-331, accessed via JSTOR)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The civil disobedient ......it for themselves.</span>

**B) If you do believe their stance is sincere and/or you agree with it, you should reward their civil disobedience with a loss. Punishment is key to enlisting the sympathy of the majority and ensuring the movement succeeds.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohen 72</span>** – Marshall, University Professor, Emeritus, Professor of Philosophy and Law, Emeritus, and Dean, Emeritus, College of Letters, Arts and Sciences at USC [“Liberalism and Disobedience,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3. (Spring, 1972), pp. 283-314, http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2265054.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is for this ........ the civil disobedient.</span>

=Boggs DA= 
**Embracing anti-politics turns their project and cedes politics to the right.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boggs ’97</span>** (CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The false sense of .......</span><span class="underline"> vanished from civil society.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">75 </span>
**Moving away from anti-politics is vital to check extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small ‘6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What will be the ....... to do just that.</span>