<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[toc]]






</span>
=Contact Info= 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Email renniepasquinelli@gmail.com for neg cites and/or d&g cites (but first watch </span>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xDMNHvnIxic)

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Email cnikoriak@gmail.com for aff cites</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If you would like the full text of a card please let us know. Try to find the article yourself first, though.</span>

=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Wake and Niles== 

===Advantage One is Terrorism:=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact and leads to military retaliation – current protection is insufficient**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Glauser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> I don’t believe there is a debate that… before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]]]
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… on the tip of a missile.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The resulting military retaliation would cause massive nuclear weapons annihilating the Muslim world, as well as attacks against North Korea and China.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pfriender 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Robert is the founder and president of Allied International Development, Ltd., a privately held real estate development and construction management firm located on Long Island, N.Y., “Doomsday for Islam?,” 03/28/2006,[[http://www.wnd.com/2006/03/35443/]]]
A terror nuke attack upon… President Bush’s initiative to attack Afghanistan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, a WMD attack on a U.S. port would results in trillions of dollars in damages – offshore ports key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
The implementation of the Portunus Project… government research and consulting firm (Abt Associates, 2003).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Crushes the U.S. and global economy via a devastating multiplier effect</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck __[[#|School of Business]]__ 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Portunus has significant value… University of Southern California (Gordon, Richardson, & Pan, 2005).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, such a disruption in the global supply chain wrecks the stability of the world economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Giermanski 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - former Air Force colonel, special agent in the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, former FBI agent, worked with Customs and Border Protection on drug intelligence development (Jim, Laura Hains- retired CBP/US Customs supervisor and law enforcement officer, President of Hammerhead Security Solutions LLC, former maritime security specialist at Cubic Applications Inc., chairwoman of the Supply Chain & Transportation Security Council at ASIS International, security consultant at Halcrow “Supply Chain Security and DHS Oversight” __[[#|Homeland Security]]__ Today 6/5/12 <http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/guest-commentaries/blog/supply-chain-security-and-dhs-oversight/55079ca7058f8f48ad6ba50411635596.html> 6/20/12)
Securing the global supply chain system… whereabouts of in-bond cargo shipments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, collapses global free trade in three weeks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Flynn 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephen, Nat’l Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20, 2003,[[http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730]])
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman… freight movements that make up international trade.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The resulting protectionism causes a world war and nuclear and biological terrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pazner 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael J., Faculty – New York __[[#|Institute of Finance]]__, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138)
The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring… as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, economic decline causes war - multiple reasons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline… should be considered ancillary to those views.</span></span>
===Advantage Two is Humyn Trafficking:=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thousands of people are trafficked into the U.S. each year – its stealthy nature allows traffickers to slip under national radars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">International Affairs 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“Current Human Trafficking Crisis,” May 27, 2008 http://suite101.com/article/current-human-trafficking-crisis-a55152]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Millions of people every year are the victims of human trafficking… at any given time at 12.3 million.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, humyn and sex trafficking cases are increasing at an alarming rate - girls arrive in cargo containers at southern ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Defender Foundation No Date Given</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Problem,” http://thedefenderfoundation.org/?page_id=192]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These cases, of course, were US minors… because no one is even sure a crime has been committed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trafficking denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shatteredHopper and Hidalgo 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During the course of trafficking… physically, emotionally, and spiritually shattered</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Every invasion of freedom must be rejected</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Petro 74</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sylvester, Wake Forest Professor in Toledo Law Review, Spring 1974, pg. 480)
However, one may still insist… resisted with undying spirit.</span>
</span>
===Plan:=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the initial development of offshore security ports through public-private sector partnerships.</span>**
</span>
===Contention Two is Solvency:=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Offshore ports are comparatively better than current programs – they provide the highest level of security by searching 100% of cargo containers</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">with new, state of the art technology, before they enter the U.S. mainland – if a nuke enters one of our ports, it’s already too late.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Automated Storage & Retrieval Systems, LTD 6</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[“Can Do!,” Vol. VII, Art. 15, April-June, 2006, http://www.automatedsystemsltd.com/vol7/article_2006_05_4_0804.html]
“CSI is perhaps best characterized… the territory of the United States.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">100% offshore port inspections are more effective than alternative security upgrades</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> ["The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve US maritime security… WMD travelling by container ship.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Offshore ports offer the best line of defense against a terrorist attack</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Glauser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
The greatest advantage of this concept… due to the potential of discovery and interdiction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Portunus improves maritime security – identifies all stowaways and improves interdiction capabilities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve maritime border security… USN vessels docked at Portunus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Other countries will model the U.S. and adopt offshore ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McMillan et al 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Cliff, VP for Business Development at Float Inc., “Implementing The Beyond the Horizon Strategy,” September 17, 2002, http://www.floatinc.org/BtHSep02.pdf]
Not unlike FedEx's efficient nationwide delivery… hubs before flying on to another city.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public-private partnerships solve best and federal government key – multiple reasons – prefer our evidence – it’s specific to offshore ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hillyard 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Dr. Michael J., Rockwell University, The Atlantis Garrison: A Comprehensive, Cost Effective Cargo and Port Security Strategy, Strategic Insights, Volume IV, Issue 4 (April 2005), http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/publications/OnlineJournal/2005/Apr/hillyardapr05.pdf]
A federal oversight and private delivery model… “that our intelligence agencies work as a single, unified enterprise.”[ 30]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public ownership and private operation ensure efficient and inexpensive construction and operation – A Dutch auction process will be used for private sector firms to bid on ports - security controls remain under the USG</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation provide… we discuss this in greater detail in Section VII.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Privates alone fail – causes declines in participation or increased costs – only the plan solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation also ensures… certain to drive interest to participate.</span></span>
==1AC - New Trier - Rd 1== 

===New Protectionism Impact=== 

Same as above, except we switched out Pazner 8 and read the following:

**The resulting protectionism sparks great power conflict and exacerbates global problems**
**Patrick 9** (Stewart, senior fellow and director of the Program on International Institutions and Global Governance at the Council on Foreign Relations, "Protecting Free Trade," National Interest, March 13, 2009, http://nationalinterest.org/article/protecting-free-trade-3060?page=show)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">President </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Obama has committed to working with...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">intelligence briefing, distilling the security implications of the global crisis.</span>

===New plan:=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the initial development of offshore security ports.</span></span>
==1AC - New Trier - Rd 5== 

===**Advantage One is Terrorism:**=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact and leads to military retaliation – current protection is insufficient**
**Glauser 11** [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
I don’t believe there is a debate that… before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.

**And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack**
**Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12** [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012,<span class="s1">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]]</span>]
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… on the tip of a missile.”

**The resulting military retaliation would cause massive nuclear weapons annihilating the Muslim world, as well as attacks against North Korea and China.**
**Pfriender 6** [Robert is the founder and president of Allied International Development, Ltd., a privately held real estate development and construction management firm located on Long Island, N.Y., “Doomsday for Islam?,” 03/28/2006,<span class="s1">[[http://www.wnd.com/2006/03/35443/]]</span>]
A terror nuke attack upon… President Bush’s initiative to attack Afghanistan.

**And, a WMD attack on a U.S. port would results in trillions of dollars in damages – offshore ports key**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
The implementation of the Portunus Project… government research and consulting firm (Abt Associates, 2003).

**Crushes the U.S. and global economy via a devastating multiplier effect**
**Tuck <span class="s2">School of Business</span> 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Portunus has significant value… University of Southern California (Gordon, Richardson, & Pan, 2005).

**And, such a disruption in the global supply chain wrecks the stability of the world economy**
**Giermanski 12** - former Air Force colonel, special agent in the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, former FBI agent, worked with Customs and Border Protection on drug intelligence development (Jim, Laura Hains- retired CBP/US Customs supervisor and law enforcement officer, President of Hammerhead Security Solutions LLC, former maritime security specialist at Cubic Applications Inc., chairwoman of the Supply Chain & Transportation Security Council at ASIS International, security consultant at Halcrow “Supply Chain Security and DHS Oversight” [[#|Homeland Security]] Today 6/5/12 <http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/guest-commentaries/blog/supply-chain-security-and-dhs-oversight/55079ca7058f8f48ad6ba50411635596.html> 6/20/12)
Securing the global supply chain system… whereabouts of in-bond cargo shipments.

**And, collapses global free trade in three weeks**
**Flynn 3** (Stephen, Nat’l Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20, 2003,<span class="s1">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730]]</span>)
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman… freight movements that make up international trade.

**The resulting protectionism sparks great power conflict and exacerbates global problems**
**Patrick 9** (Stewart, senior fellow and director of the Program on International Institutions and Global Governance at the Council on Foreign Relations, "Protecting Free Trade," National Interest, March 13, 2009, http://nationalinterest.org/article/protecting-free-trade-3060?page=show)
President <span class="s3">Obama has committed to working with...</span>intelligence briefing, distilling the security implications of the global crisis.

**And, economic decline causes war - multiple reasons**
**Royal 10** — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline… should be considered ancillary to those views.

===**Advantage Two is Overpopulation:**=== 

**Overpopulation is the number one problem today – it’s the root cause of all other impacts – our current path destroys the planet**
**St Augustine 12** [“Letter: How can Catholic Church ignore results of overpopulation?,” 3-3-12, http://staugustine.com/opinions/2012-03-02/letter-how-can-catholic-church-ignore-results-overpopulation#.T1QrMIds52A]
<span class="s3">We live on a finite planet with finite...</span>If the Catholic Church is pro-life, how can it ignore these facts?

**And, ocean colonization’s inevitable, but very large floating structures are key to environmental sustainability**
**Wang and Wang 8** [C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]
<span class="s3">Ocean space will progressively be colonized...</span>for more space and to make use of their coastal and sea spaces.

**Ocean colonization solves environmental destruction, increases food production, and solves overpopulation**
**Wang and Wang 8** [C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]
The past 50 years was marked by an..."increased proteinproduction while improving the environment.'

===Plan:=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the initial development of offshore security ports.**

===**Contention Two is Solvency:**=== 

**Offshore ports are comparatively better than current programs – they provide the highest level of security by searching 100% of cargo containers with new, state of the art technology, before they enter the U.S. mainland – if a nuke enters one of our ports, it’s already too late.**
**Automated Storage & Retrieval Systems, LTD 6** [“Can Do!,” Vol. VII, Art. 15, April-June, 2006, http://www.automatedsystemsltd.com/vol7/article_2006_05_4_0804.html]
“CSI is perhaps best characterized… the territory of the United States.

**100% offshore port inspections are more effective than alternative security upgrades**
**Tuck School of Business 10** ["The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve US maritime security… WMD travelling by container ship.

**Offshore ports offer the best line of defense against a terrorist attack**
**Glauser 11** [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
The greatest advantage of this concept… due to the potential of discovery and interdiction.

**Portunus improves maritime security – identifies all stowaways and improves interdiction capabilities**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve maritime border security… USN vessels docked at Portunus.

**Other countries will model the U.S. and adopt offshore ports**
**McMillan et al 2** [Cliff, VP for Business Development at Float Inc., “Implementing The Beyond the Horizon Strategy,” September 17, 2002, http://www.floatinc.org/BtHSep02.pdf]
Not unlike FedEx's efficient nationwide delivery… hubs before flying on to another city.

**Public-private partnerships solve best and federal government key – multiple reasons – prefer our evidence – it’s specific to offshore ports**
**Hillyard 5** [Dr. Michael J., Rockwell University, The Atlantis Garrison: A Comprehensive, Cost Effective Cargo and Port Security Strategy, Strategic Insights, Volume IV, Issue 4 (April 2005), http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/publications/OnlineJournal/2005/Apr/hillyardapr05.pdf]
A federal oversight and private delivery model… “that our intelligence agencies work as a single, unified enterprise.”[ 30]

**Public ownership and private operation ensure efficient and inexpensive construction and operation – A Dutch auction process will be used for private sector firms to bid on ports - security controls remain under the USG**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation provide… we discuss this in greater detail in Section VII.

**Privates alone fail – causes declines in participation or increased costs – only the plan solves**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation also ensures… certain to drive interest to participate.

==1AC - Wayne State Finals== 

===Advantage One is Terrorism:=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact and leads to military retaliation – current protection is insufficient**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Glauser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]I don’t believe there is a debate that… before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]]] MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… on the tip of a missile.”</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The resulting military retaliation would cause massive nuclear weapons annihilating the Muslim world, as well as attacks against North Korea and China.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pfriender 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Robert is the founder and president of Allied International Development, Ltd., a privately held real estate development and construction management firm located on Long Island, N.Y., “Doomsday for Islam?,” 03/28/2006,[[http://www.wnd.com/2006/03/35443/]]] A terror nuke attack upon… President Bush’s initiative to attack Afghanistan.</span></span>
**And, an attack on a port would cause irreparable damage to marine ecosystems**
**Chalk 8** [Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND Research & Development Corporation, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” 2008, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf]
__Attacks__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span>__have the potential to…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of time before pirates trigger an environmental disaster of this sort. 38</span>

**That causes extinction**
**Craig 3** [Robin Kundis, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review//, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Winter, 2003, Lexis-Nexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving… blobs of jelly." n864 More importantly, the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.</span>

**And, there is an ethical imperative to prevent marine biodiversity loss over every other risk**
**Norse 93** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elliott, Ed. __Global Marine Biological Diversity,__ Chief Scientist – Center for Marine Conservation)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language**</span>//
**__This present-day global mass extinction…__** __essential** if we are to meet human needs.__

===**Advantage Two is Overpopulation:**=== 

**Overpopulation is the number one problem today – it’s the root cause of all other impacts – our current path destroys the planet**
**St Augustine 12** [“Letter: How can Catholic Church ignore results of overpopulation?,” 3-3-12, http://staugustine.com/opinions/2012-03-02/letter-how-can-catholic-church-ignore-results-overpopulation#.T1QrMIds52A]
<span class="s3">We live on a finite planet with finite...</span>If the Catholic Church is pro-life, how can it ignore these facts?

**And, ocean colonization’s inevitable, but very large floating structures are key to environmental sustainability**
**Wang and Wang 8** [C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]
<span class="s3">Ocean space will progressively be colonized...</span>for more space and to make use of their coastal and sea spaces.

**Ocean colonization solves environmental destruction, increases food production, and solves overpopulation**
**Wang and Wang 8** [C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]
The past 50 years was marked by an..."increased proteinproduction while improving the environment.'

===Advantage Three is Humyn Trafficking:=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thousands of people are trafficked into the U.S. each year – its stealthy nature allows traffickers to slip under national radars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">International Affairs 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“Current Human Trafficking Crisis,” May 27, 2008 http://suite101.com/article/current-human-trafficking-crisis-a55152]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Millions of people every year are the victims of human trafficking… at any given time at 12.3 million.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, humyn and sex trafficking cases are increasing at an alarming rate - girls arrive in cargo containers at southern ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Defender Foundation No Date Given</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“The Problem,” http://thedefenderfoundation.org/?page_id=192]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These cases, of course, were US minors… because no one is even sure a crime has been committed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trafficking denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shatteredHopper and Hidalgo 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During the course of trafficking… physically, emotionally, and spiritually shattered</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Every invasion of freedom must be rejected</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Petro 74</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sylvester, Wake Forest Professor in Toledo Law Review, Spring 1974, pg. 480)
However, one may still insist… resisted with undying spirit.</span></span>
===Plan:=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the initial development of offshore security ports.**

===**Contention Two is Solvency:**=== 

**Offshore ports are comparatively better than current programs – they provide the highest level of security by searching 100% of cargo containers with new, state of the art technology, before they enter the U.S. mainland – if a nuke enters one of our ports, it’s already too late.**
**Automated Storage & Retrieval Systems, LTD 6** [“Can Do!,” Vol. VII, Art. 15, April-June, 2006, http://www.automatedsystemsltd.com/vol7/article_2006_05_4_0804.html]
“CSI is perhaps best characterized… the territory of the United States.

**100% offshore port inspections are more effective than alternative security upgrades**
**Tuck School of Business 10** ["The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve US maritime security… WMD travelling by container ship.

**Offshore ports offer the best line of defense against a terrorist attack**
**Glauser 11** [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
The greatest advantage of this concept… due to the potential of discovery and interdiction.

**Portunus improves maritime security – identifies all stowaways and improves interdiction capabilities**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
Portunus will improve maritime border security… USN vessels docked at Portunus.

**Other countries will model the U.S. and adopt offshore ports**
**McMillan et al 2** [Cliff, VP for Business Development at Float Inc., “Implementing The Beyond the Horizon Strategy,” September 17, 2002, http://www.floatinc.org/BtHSep02.pdf]
Not unlike FedEx's efficient nationwide delivery… hubs before flying on to another city.

**Public-private partnerships solve best and federal government key – multiple reasons – prefer our evidence – it’s specific to offshore ports**
**Hillyard 5** [Dr. Michael J., Rockwell University, The Atlantis Garrison: A Comprehensive, Cost Effective Cargo and Port Security Strategy, Strategic Insights, Volume IV, Issue 4 (April 2005), http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/publications/OnlineJournal/2005/Apr/hillyardapr05.pdf]
A federal oversight and private delivery model… “that our intelligence agencies work as a single, unified enterprise.”[ 30]

**Public ownership and private operation ensure efficient and inexpensive construction and operation – A Dutch auction process will be used for private sector firms to bid on ports - security controls remain under the USG**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation provide… we discuss this in greater detail in Section VII.

**Privates alone fail – causes declines in participation or increased costs – only the plan solves**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Public ownership and private operation also ensures… certain to drive interest to participate.

===**Contention Three is Framework**=== 

**Our framework for the debate – the aff should win if the topical plan is the best policy option presented. The neg should win if the plan is worse than the status quo or an alternative competitive with the plan.**

**Reasons to Prefer – only our interpretation provides a stable locus for ground division checking back the 1000s of unpredictable frameworks they justify crushing topic specific education. Our interp is key to preventing judge intervention by establishing a clear brightline for weighing arguments.**

**Evaluate through the lens of aff choice – if we’re reasonably fair there should be a presumption for the aff, otherwise they can moot 8 minutes of the 1AC and we’d never catch up.**

**Finally, they should have to present a developed framework argument in the 1NC – we’ve taken the time to make these arguments now, reciprocity and fairness mean they should have to answer it in the 1NC.**

==1AC - UMRR - Rd 1== 

===Advantage One is Terrorism:=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact and leads to military retaliation – current protection is insufficient**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Glauser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]I don’t believe there is a debate that… before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]]] MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… on the tip of a missile.”</span></span>
**And, a WMD attack on a U.S. port would results in trillions of dollars in damages – offshore ports key**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
The implementation of the Portunus Project… government research and consulting firm (Abt Associates, 2003).

**Crushes the U.S. and global economy via a devastating multiplier effect**
**Tuck <span class="s2">School of Business</span> 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]
Portunus has significant value… University of Southern California (Gordon, Richardson, & Pan, 2005).

**Extinction**
**Kemp 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, pgs. 233-4]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first scenario; everything that can go wrong does go wrong. The world economic situation weakens rather than strengthens, and </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">India, China, and Japan...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">two-thirds of the planet’s population</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Specifically, the Los Angeles-Long Beach port represents a prime target for a terrorist attack – wrecks the U.S. economy**
**Lyon 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David W. Lyon- President and CEO of the Public Policy Institute of California p. 6 http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Opinions on the extent of disruption differ significantly,¶ ¶ however.</span>

**And, even a small-scale WMD attack on a LA or Long Beach port would cost $34 billion**
**Tuck School of Business 10** [“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Even a small-scale WMD or...</span>____University of Southern California__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gordon, Richardson, & Pan, 2005).</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">The resulting economic decline causes war - multiple reasons</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may...the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===Same:=== 

**Same Humyn Trafficking Advantage, Plan, and Solvency Contention**

==D&G 1AC - UMRR - Rd 3== 

**Plan:** **The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for the construction of a bridge leading to the imaginary desert islands in the United States.**

**We begin with a journey to reach to the deserted islands, a place where one can create a world anew; a place of freedom, joy, and happiness. The deserted islands are everywhere and nowhere, impossible to get to, but it is not the reachability that matters, but rather the imaginary journey.**
**Deleuze 4** [Gilles, Desert Islands and other texts. pgs. 9-11, 2004]
**//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//**
**__Geographers say there are two kinds of islands… most profound in it, i.e. rites and mythology.__**

**And, even if the imaginary journey to the deserted islands won’t change anything that is not a shortcoming of our affirmation. The journey itself provides us with an opportunity to be creative, affirm life, and recreate everything, time and again.**
**Deleuze 4** [Gilles. Desert Islands and other texts. pgs. 12-14, 2004, mrl]
//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is to state once again that </span>__the essence of the deserted… something most profound.__

**Therefore, while there is no calculated reason why building a bridge to the imaginary deserted islands is a good idea, we must open ourselves up to the numerous possible outcomes that may result. It is only then that we can abandon our need for mastery and control. Thus, voting affirmative represents taking a chance; a single dicethrow, and accepting any one of an infinite number of results.**
**Deleuze 83** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, pgs. 25-27, 1983]</span>
__The game has two moments which…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number. 23</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">And, uncertainty and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. Any attempt to impose order on the world creates and reinforces existential anxiety, causing totalitarianism.</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Gordan 3 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">(Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have a recurring dream: </span>__I am lost at sea…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the universe which may not really be there” (Stamps, 1980, p. i).</span>

**Thus, the affirmative is a refrain of existence - one of creativity and chaos - one that affirms joy and understanding. What we do sets up demarcations about whom and what we are, which can open us up to the fluctuating forces of the universe. Each day we are captured by exclusionary ideas, models, and ways of being - our only goal is to escape from this black hole of existential contraction.**
**Pindar and Sutton 2K** (Ian and Paul, Introduction to The Three Ecologies, pgs. 8-13, 2000, mrl)
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">*IWC = Integrated World Capitalism</span>//
__There are many refrains in our… painter but as a medium for accident and chance.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'15</span>

**Therefore, our journey to reach the imaginary desert islands calls upon you to shed your everyday identity and become schizophrenic** **in order to find beauty everywhere.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72** [Anti-Oedipus, pgs. 330-39, 1972]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it seems that things are becoming very obscure…</span><span class="underline"> being swallowed up-a question of regime.</span>

**Finally, the logic of a normative understanding of engaging the political is founded by a managerial discourse bent on maintaining predictable order at all costs. Our goal is to invent new tropes of political reality, which effectively challenge state oppression vis-à-vis a method of ungraspability**.
**Goddard 6** (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What this type of radio achieved most… present stage to outline projections of societal change.”</span>

==<span style="font-size: 18px;">1AC - MBA - Rd 2</span>== 

===Advantage One is Terrorism:=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact – current protection is insufficient**
**Glauser 11** [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I don’t believe there is debate that </span>**__we are a target for terrorism…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> place before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack**</span>
**Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12** [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… **a cargo container than on the tip of a missile.”**</span>

**Specifically, a cargo container attack on the Port of Houston would unleash devastating explosions as the initial attack causes nearby LPG tankers to explode**
**Gwynne 4** <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">[S. C. Gwynne, Sam has a bachelor’s degree in history from Princeton University and a master’s Degree in writing from Johns Hopkins University, Lecturer at U of Texas; national correspondent for Time; senior writer at Dallas Morning News; former editor California Business; former international banker, has worked for TEXAS MONTHLY in a variety of capacities since 2000. He is the author of Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Tribe in American History, which is a New York Times bestseller and a finalist for both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. TexasMonthly, Nov. 2004, http://m.texasmonthly.com/id/3038/Society/#part1]</span>
__The attack begıns in the Houston Ship Channel,…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What happens next is scarcely imaginable.</span>

**And, a successful Port of Houston attack would destroy the environment and decimate the economy – closure costs $406 million a day and would increase gas prices by over a dollar per gallon**
**Texas Insider 11** [“HOUSTON: Terrorism & Oil Spill Response Plans Highlighted by Cong. McCaul,” 8-26-2011, http://www.texasinsider.org/houston-terrorism-oil-spill-response-plans-highlighted-by-cong-mccaul/]
__Not only would a successful attack result in… citizens by successfully carrying out an attack in Houston.__

**And, within minutes after the attack mass hysteria would ensue forcing a closure of all U.S. ports**
**Gwynne 4** <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">[S. C. Gwynne, Sam has a bachelor’s degree in history from Princeton University and a master’s Degree in writing from Johns Hopkins University, Lecturer at U of Texas; national correspondent for Time; senior writer at Dallas Morning News; former editor California Business; former international banker, has worked for TEXAS MONTHLY in a variety of capacities since 2000. He is the author of Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Tribe in American History, which is a New York Times bestseller and a finalist for both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. TexasMonthly, Nov. 2004, http://m.texasmonthly.com/id/3038/Society/#part1]</span>
__IN THE MINUTES after the detonation of the… huge traffic jams as people flee from imagined danger.__

**And, the increased gas prices spillover to all sectors of the economy and destroys the trucking industry**
**Real Clear Policy 12** [“High Fuel Costs Not Just a Drag on Commuters,” March 27, 2012, http://www.realclearpolicy.com/articles/2012/03/27/high_fuel_costs_not_just_a_drag_on_commuters_97.html]
__The impact of higher fuel prices on American… on to consumers in the form of higher product prices.__

**And, trucking’s key to the U.S. economy**
**Holcomb 6** (Richard, Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles, served as General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Law and Regulatory Affairs for the American Trucking Associations, the national trade association for the trucking industry, “When Trucks Stop, America Stops,” 7/14/06, http://web.archive.org/web/20070111132848/http:www.truckline.com/NR/rdonlyres/5E2BCA15-7C12-43CA-9F82-154A5A7A2F3C/0/WhenTrucksStopAmericaStops.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commercial </span>__truck traffic is vital to our nation's economic… truck traffic will lead to rapid economic instability.__

**The U.S. is key to the global economy**
**Perry 12** [Mark, PhD, professor of economics and finance in the School of Management at the Flint campus of the University of Michigan, “U.S. Emerges As A Main Engine of Global Growth,” 2012, http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/04/us-emerging-as-main-engine-of-global.html]
__"The U.S. once again may be emerging as a main… in growth is clearly being led by the U.S.”__

**Extinction**
**Kemp 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, pgs. 233-4]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos,…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> for two-thirds of the planet’s population</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Advantage Two is Overpopulation:=== 

**Our population is growing at a startling rate – causes extinction due to an accelerating obliteration of the planet’s life forms, increased violence, terrorism, resource wars, disease, and famine**
**Hedges 9** [Chris, Foreign Correspondent for a variety of publications, including the Christian Science Monitor and NY Times. He’s also a Senior Fellow at the Nation Institute, “We Are Breeding Ourselves to Extinction,” March 8, 2009, [[http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/20090309_we_are_breeding_ourselves_to_extinction//]]]
//**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language**//
**__All measures to thwart the degradation and… They constitute__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he says, </span>__a self-regulating system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

And, extinction within a century
Daily Galaxy 11-1**9 [(Fenner, Prof. of Microbiology), “"Preventing the Next Easter Island" --Scientists Pioneer a Technique to Predict Ecosystem Collapse,” November 19, 2012, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2012/11/-ecoalert-predicting-the-next-easter-island-scientists-pioneer-a-technique-to-predict-ecosystem-coll.html]**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fenner says </span>__homo sapiens will not be able…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and is predicted to pass seven billion next year.</span>

And, ocean colonization’s inevitable, but very large floating structures are key to environmental sustainability
Wang and Wang 8 **[C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]**
__Ocean space will progressively be colonized…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space and to make use of their coastal and sea spaces.</span>

That includes offshore ports
Ocean Facilities 12 **[“A “Killer-app” for a “Blue-tech Revolution”?” Ocean Facilities Engineering, July 18, 2012, http://oceanfacilities.blogspot.com/2012/07/a-killer-app-for-blue-tech-revolution.html]**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A recent Maritime Executive posting covered the non profit… facility would cost “between $5B and $8B”. </span>**

That solves environmental destruction, increases food production, and slows population pressures
Wang and Wang 8 [C.M. Wang is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the National University and the Deputy Head for the Engineering Science Programme. He is a Chartered Structural Engineer, a Felloe of the Institution of Engineers Singapore, and a Fellow of the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK). B.T. Wang is a PhD Candidate at the University of Melbourne. Very Large Floating Structures, 2008]
__The past 50 years was marked by an increase… production while improving the environment.'__

===Same:=== 

The plan and solvency contention were the same as in the past.

==D&G 1AC - Lex - Rd 5== 

===Contention One: The Desert Islands=== 

**We begin with a journey to reach to the deserted islands, a place where one can create a world anew; a place of freedom, joy, and happiness. The deserted islands are everywhere and nowhere, impossible to get to, but it is not the reachability that matters, but rather the imaginary journey.**
**Deleuze 4** [Gilles, Desert Islands and other texts. pgs. 9-11, 2004]
**//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//**
**__Geographers say there are two kinds of islands…what is most profound in it, i.e. rites and mythology.__**

**And, even if the imaginary journey to the deserted islands won’t change anything that is not a shortcoming of our affirmation. The journey itself provides us with an opportunity to be creative, affirm life, and recreate everything, time and again.**
**Deleuze 4** [Gilles. Desert Islands and other texts. pgs. 12-14, 2004, mrl]
//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is to state once again that </span>__the essence of the deserted island is…this something immemorial, this something most profound.__

**Therefore, while there is no calculated reason why building a bridge to the imaginary deserted islands is a good idea, we must open ourselves up to the numerous possible outcomes that may result. It is only then that we can abandon our need for mastery and control. Thus, voting affirmative represents taking a chance; a single dicethrow, and accepting any one of an infinite number of results.**
**Deleuze 83** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, pgs. 25-27, 1983]</span>
__The game has two moments which are those of a dicethrow…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> but the repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number. 23 </span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">And, uncertainty and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. Any attempt to impose order on the world creates and reinforces existential anxiety, causing totalitarianism.</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Gordan 3 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">(Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have a recurring dream: </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I am lost at sea</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…imposing an order on the universe which may not really be there” (Stamps, 1980, p. i). </span>

**And, any attempt to produce a truly static and predictable world is incest – philosophy and political thought have reproduced in their own gene pool for too long. Instead, we should seek creativity in argument, even if it is unpredictable.**
**Owlkoski 99** [Dorothea, Gilles Deleuze and the Ruin of Representation, pgs. 14-15, 1999]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To begin with, </span>there must be a critique of representation…<span class="underline">differences can be created from every point of view</span>__.__

**This, our journey to reach the imaginary desert islands calls upon you to shed your everyday identity and become schizophrenic** **in order to find beauty everywhere.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72** [Anti-Oedipus, pgs. 330-39, 1972]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it seems that things are becoming very obscure, for what is this distinction between the experience of death and the model of death? Here again, is it a death desire? A being-far-death? Or rather an investment of death, even if speculative?...</span><span class="underline">being swallowed up-a question of regime.</span>

===<span class="underline">Advocacy:</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12px;">Thus, my partner and I advocate: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for the construction of a bridge leading to the imaginary desert islands in the United States.</span>**

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention Two: Framework</span>**=== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">We are the United States federal government - our agency is permeable and simulated through fiat.</span>**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze is an ex-professor of philosophy @ the University of Vincennes, Felix Guattari studied under Jacques Lacan @ the psychiatric clinic of La Borde, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Anti-Oedipus, pgs. 87-88, 1972)</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">simulation must be understood in the same…the circle and concludes a self from its oscillations on the circle.</span>__**

**And, speech is our action in debate – we all know policies don’t actually get passed if the judge votes affirmative, but the resolution functions as a simple expression of a fact, principle, or opinion to be considered in this round - the absence of a proceeding “whereas” statement means enactment is irrelevant.**
**Johnson 3** [Charles W., Parliamentarian—United States House of Representatives, June 2003, http://thomas.loc.gov/home/lawsmade.bysec/formsofaction.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joint resolutions may originate either in the House…the Senate and are published in the Congressional Record.</span>

==1AC - HoFlo - Rd 6== 

===Advantage One is Terrorism:=== 

**We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact – current protection is insufficient**
**Glauser 11** [Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]
I don’t believe there is debate that we…the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.

**And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack**
**Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12** [Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded…arrive in a cargo container than on the tip of a missile.”

**Specifically, a cargo container attack on the Port of Houston would unleash devastating explosions as the initial attack causes nearby LPG tankers to explode**
**Gwynne 4** [S. C. Gwynne, Sam has a bachelor’s degree in history from Princeton University and a master’s Degree in writing from Johns Hopkins University, Lecturer at U of Texas; national correspondent for Time; senior writer at Dallas Morning News; former editor California Business; former international banker, has worked for TEXAS MONTHLY in a variety of capacities since 2000. He is the author of Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Tribe in American History, which is a New York Times bestseller and a finalist for both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. TexasMonthly, Nov. 2004, http://m.texasmonthly.com/id/3038/Society/#part1]
The attack begıns in the Houston Ship Channel…What happens next is scarcely imaginable.

**And, a successful Port of Houston attack would destroy the environment and decimate the economy – closure costs $406 million a day and would increase gas prices by over a dollar per gallon**
**Texas Insider 11** [“HOUSTON: Terrorism & Oil Spill Response Plans Highlighted by Cong. McCaul,” 8-26-2011, http://www.texasinsider.org/houston-terrorism-oil-spill-response-plans-highlighted-by-cong-mccaul/]
Not only would a successful attack result…carrying out an attack in Houston.

**Environmental decline causes extinction**
**Kline 98** (Gary, Associate Professor of Political Science, Georgia Southwestern State University, Journal of Third World Studies, Vol 15, Issue 1, Spring)
**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language**
**Additionally, natural ecosystems provide certain…which is essential to our existence: agriculture.**

And, within minutes after the attack mass hysteria would ensue forcing a closure of all U.S. ports
Gwynne 4 **[S. C. Gwynne, Sam has a bachelor’s degree in history from Princeton University and a master’s Degree in writing from Johns Hopkins University, Lecturer at U of Texas; national correspondent for Time; senior writer at Dallas Morning News; former editor California Business; former international banker, has worked for TEXAS MONTHLY in a variety of capacities since 2000. He is the author of Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Tribe in American History, which is a New York Times bestseller and a finalist for both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. TexasMonthly, Nov. 2004, http://m.texasmonthly.com/id/3038/Society/#part1]**
**IN THE MINUTES after the detonation of…traffic jams as people flee from imagined danger.**

And, the increased gas prices spillover to all sectors of the economy and destroys the trucking industry
Real Clear Policy 12 **[“High Fuel Costs Not Just a Drag on Commuters,” March 27, 2012, http://www.realclearpolicy.com/articles/2012/03/27/high_fuel_costs_not_just_a_drag_on_commuters_97.html]**
**The impact of higher fuel prices on American…consumers in the form of higher product prices.**

Two Impacts:

First, the economy:

Trucking’s key to the U.S. economy – disruption fuels economic instability
Holcomb 6 **(Richard, Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles, served as General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Law and Regulatory Affairs for the American Trucking Associations, the national trade association for the trucking industry, “When Trucks Stop, America Stops,” 7/14/06, http://web.archive.org/web/20070111132848/http:www.truckline.com/NR/rdonlyres/5E2BCA15-7C12-43CA-9F82-154A5A7A2F3C/0/WhenTrucksStopAmericaStops.pdf)**
**Commercial truck traffic is vital to our nation's economic…traffic will lead to rapid economic instability.**

Statistical analysis proves war
Royal 10 **— Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)**
**Less intuitive is how periods of economic…be considered ancillary to those views.**

Second, hazardous waste:

Trucking industry is key to hazardous waste removal – causes environmental harm and disease spread
Holcomb 6 **(Richard, Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles, served as General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Law and Regulatory Affairs for the American Trucking Associations, the national trade association for the trucking industry, “When Trucks Stop, America Stops,” 7/14/06, http://web.archive.org/web/20070111132848/http:www.truckline.com/NR/rdonlyres/5E2BCA15-7C12-43CA-9F82-154A5A7A2F3C/0/WhenTrucksStopAmericaStops.pdf)**
**The Environmental Protection Agency…and drainage leading to pooling and flooding.**

Disease spread collapses civilization in weeks, culminating in extinction
Darling and Shultz-Makuch 12 **[Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling Seattle's Big Blog, http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment, Washington State University]**
We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language
Our body is in constant competition with a dizzying array…the very survival of our species could be threatened.

===Same:=== 

The plan, overpopulation advantage, and solvency were the same as the MBA Rd 2 version of the 1AC.

==Add-ons== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dehum</span>**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. Trafficking is the ultimate form of dehumynization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DeMarco 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Caitlin, intern in the Ronald Reagan Memorial Internship Program at Concerned Women for America Jul 12, 2007, http://www.cwfa.org/articles/13418/BLI/dotcommentary/index.htm]cn</span>
//**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language**//
**We have all heard the catchy song lyrics about ...stigmatized, prosecuted, and squeezed out of existence."**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B. Dehumynization outweighs all other impacts</span>
Berube 97 **[Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]**</span>
//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Assuming we are able to predict who or what are optimize...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">dehumanization is evil's most powerful weapon.</span>__
==2AC Blocks== 

===CP Blocks=== 

====AT: Earmarks CP==== 

**1. Perm – do both**

**2. Perm - do the CP – normal means is that the plan doesn’t get funding until FY2014**

**“Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:**
**Merriam Webster 9** (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

**Neither does “should”**
**Encarta World English Dictionary 5**
(http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861735294)
expressing conditions or consequences: used to express the conditionality of an occurrence and suggest it is not a given, or to indicate the consequence of something that might happen ( used in conditional clauses )

**And it doesn’t sever immediacy**
**Online Plain Text English Dictionary 9** (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
Resolve: “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.”

====AT: EIS/Climate Assessment/NEPA CP==== 

**<span style="color: #222222;">1. Perm – do both - </span>non-binding consultation solves public participation and elections**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lindstrom and Nie 97</span>** – Research Consultants for the Arizona Department of Transportation
Matthew and Martin, “HOW DO YOU COLLECT AND USE PUBLIC INFORMATION IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PLANS AND PROGRAMS?,” ADOT, REPORT NUMBER: FHWA-AZ97-452, http://www.azdot.gov/TPD/ATRC/publications/project_reports/PDF/AZ452.pdf
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are two key facets to any process whereby the public participates in the decision making process</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ………………………………….probably </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">be </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">more willing</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to go along with the final decision</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Towards the end of this report, we will come back to this issue when we recommend techniques and strategies for Arizona’s Department of Transportation.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">2. Perm – do the CP</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy</span>**
<span style="color: #222222;">**Atlas Collaboration 99**</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">“Use of shall, should, may can,” </span>http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html
<span style="color: #222222;">'shall' describes something that AND defining what 'thoroughly' means).</span>

<span style="color: #222222;">**And “resolved” doesn’t sever immediacy**</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">**Online Plain Text English Dictionary 9** (</span>http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve<span style="color: #222222;">)</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Resolve: “To form a AND better course of life.”</span>

<span style="color: #222222;">**Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:**</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">**Merriam Webster 9** (</span>http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved<span style="color: #222222;">)</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Main Entry: 1re•solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re•solv•ing AND resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">And, it’s not severance – NEPA’s normal means</span>**
<span style="color: #222222;">**Peyser 5** [Jennifer, MS in City Planning @ MIT, “How Does Participation in the Framing, Review, and Incorporation of Scientific Information Affect Stakeholder Perspectives on Resource Management Decisions?,” 2005, </span>http://web.mit.edu/dusp/epp/music/pdf/jpeyser.thesis.FINAL.pdf]
<span style="color: #222222;">The National Environmental Policy Act **__(NEPA),__** …………..The public” can include any individual or group outside the federal government, including citizens, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), business and industry, academics and state, local, and tribal governments.</span>

**And, XO 13274 makes EIS normal means for the aff**
**Department of Transportation 2**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Executive Order 13274 - Executive Order: Environmental Stewardship and Transportation Infrastructure Project Reviews, George Bush, http://www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/strmlng/eo091802.asp)</span>
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to enhance environmental stewardship and streamline the environmental review and development of transportation infrastructure projects, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Policy. …………………………… consistent with available resources and applicable laws, including those relating to safety, public health, and environmental protection.

**3. EIS’s won’t be publicly accessible**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flournoy 8</span>** – Professor @ UF [Alyson, Harnessing the Power of Information to Protect Our Public Natural Resource Legacy, Texas Law Review, Vol. 86, p. 1575, 2008]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, the absence of a substantive standard for environmental protection is not the only criticism of NEPA’s design. There are a number of other significant critiques of NEPA that should be considered in assessing its capacity to define and protect a public natural resource legacy. In particular, commentators have focused attention on various shortcomings in how information is deployed under NEPA…………………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Key information is harder to find when it is buried within five volumes, each several hundred pages in length</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">4. </span>****Lack of certainty will undermine port security investment**
**Krepinevich 8** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Andrew F. Krepinevich, Jr., President, is an expert on US military strategy, policy and operations, military revolutions, and counterinsurgency. He gained extensive strategic planning experience on the personal staff of three secretaries of defense, in the Department of Defense’s Office of Net Assessment, and as a member of the National Defense Panel, the Defense Science Board Task Force on Joint Experimentation, and the Joint Forces Command’s Transformation Advisory Board. He is the author of numerous CSBA reports on such topics as the Quadrennial Defense Review, alliances, the war in Iraq, and transformation of the US military. He has provided expert testimony before congressional committees, as well as academic and other professional groups. 2008 Strategy for the Long Haul Defense Investment Strategies in an Uncertain World http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2008.08.21-Defense-Investment-Strategies.pdf)</span>
__What factors contribute to successful investing in periods of...____toward continuing down the current investment path.__

**<span style="color: #222222;">5. No solvency – they fail due to one time consultation</span>**
<span style="color: #222222;">**Wasserman 11** (Cheryl, Associate Director for Policy Analysis, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, “ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS” Ninth International Conference on Environmental Compliance and Enforcement 2011, http://inece.org/conference/9/proceedings/57_Wasserman.pdf MGE)</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">These distinctions can be important to the outcome of the EIA process. __………………. All too often EIA requirements fail because they are perceived and implemented as a one-time event.__</span>

**6. Big risk of uncertainty – affects politics links**
**Beder 90** – Professor of Social Sciences [Sharon, “Environmental Impact Statements: The Ethical Dilemma for Engineers,” 1990, http://herinst.org/sbeder/engineers/dilemma.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Naturally, they will want that document to emphasise the advantages of the project to the community and to downplay the disadvantages. To a large extent that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">environmental impact statement becomes a sales document for the project,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">grabbed by opponents</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of the project, magnified and </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">used against them</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**7. Say no – public won’t participate, undermines expert planning**
**Lindstrom and Nie 97**– Research Consultants for the Arizona Department of Transportation
[Matthew and Martin, “HOW DO YOU COLLECT AND USE PUBLIC INFORMATION IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PLANS AND PROGRAMS?,” ADOT, REPORT NUMBER: FHWA-AZ97-452, http://www.azdot.gov/TPD/ATRC/publications/project_reports/PDF/AZ452.pdf]
Daniel Barber (1981) classifies the case against citizen participation in four main points. First, __participation may mobilize negative sentiment. **Participation is viewed as a self-defeatin**g measure for transportation planners…**…………………**__Consequently, __if lobbying efforts are successful, a disproportionate allocation of total community resources is given to the interests which have exerted the most influence.__

**8. NEPA’s predictions are haphazard and inaccurate – makes mitigation measures useless**
**Farber 9** – Professor of Law @ UC-Berkeley [Daniel, “ADAPTATION PLANNING AND CLIMATE IMPACT ASSESSMENTS: LEARNING FROM NEPA’S FLAWS,” 2009, http://www.law.berkeley.edu/files/NEPA_Adaptation.pdf]
One of NEPA’s major flaws, which climate assessment needs to avoid at all costs, is the absence of dynamic learning. NEPA does not require agencies to perform later checks on their EIS predictions, and agencies do not generally
do so………………..emitigated FONSIs [check to make sure you have defined FONSI]a bit suspect, since we cannot have any real confidence that the mitigation measures will actually reduce the impacts below
the “significance” level.

**9.** **EIS unpopular – draws in public backlash**
**Rosenbaum 5** - Professor of Political Science at Univ of Florida (Walter A, //Environmental Policymaking//, Ed. Hatch, p200-201)
In many instances, the EIS process is an early warning system for environmental advocacy and science communities, even though public involvement in the process is often more restrictive than its authors intended…………… (deliberately) mystifying, bureaucratic, syntax-adorning program descriptions.

**10. No solvency - EIS process takes three years**
**Greenwire 9** (“NEPA reviews shouldn't delay stimulus projects, experts say” March 24th, http://www.eenews.net/public/Greenwire/2009/03/24/2)
If the economy flounders despite the massive stimulus package, don't blame the federal law that forces government agencies to review their projects' environmental impacts. …………………….The process, they say, can be sped up with strict deadlines, strong leadership from agency chiefs and increased resources and personnel to do reviews.

====AT: NIB CP==== 

**1. Perm – do both**

**2. No short-term investment – will take years to write regulation and hire staff**
**Mallett, Kosar, and Maguire 11** - white house specialist (William J. Specialist in Transportation Policy , Kevin R. Analyst in American National Government , Steven Specialist in Public Finance , National Infrastructure Bank: Overview and Current Legislation, December 14, 2011, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42115.pdf)
Although a national infrastructure bank might help ……………. that demand for TIFIA assistance exceeded its budgetary authority.46

**3. Perm – do the plan, then the CP**

**4. NIB won’t be competitive or sustainable – interest rate adjustments would make financing through the bank more expensive**
**Mallett, Kosar, and Maguire 11**—white house specialist (William J. Specialist in Transportation Policy , Kevin R. Analyst in American National Government , Steven Specialist in Public Finance , National Infrastructure Bank: Overview and Current Legislation, December 14, 2011, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42115.pdf)
All pending infrastructure bank proposals have the objective of increasing investment in infrastructure while maintaining financial self-sustainability. ………. However, the additional transaction fees or interest rate adjustments would make financing through the infrastructure bank more expensive. The higher these fees go, the less advantageous it will be for a project sponsor to seek infrastructure bank assistance.50

**5. We solve a better internal link to the economy:**

**Extend both Tuck School of Business cards - A WMD attack on a U.S. port would results in trillions of dollars in damages and lead to a devastating multiplier effect on the U.S. and global economies.**

**Extend Giermanski 12 – such a disruption in the global supply chain would have a major effect on the economy – trade makes up 30% of the U.S. economy**

**And, extend Flynn 3 – the result is a collapse in global free trade within three weeks**

**6. Doesn’t change current investment – only has jurisdiction over new funding**
**Istrate & Puentes 9** professor @ Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute. (Emilia Istrate is a Ph.D. candidate in Public Policy, with specializations in Regional Economic Development and Transportation, at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. and Robert, Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program, Investing for Success Examining a Federal Capital Budget and a National Infrastructure Bank, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/12/10%20infrastructure%20puentes/1210_infrastructure_puentes.pdf)
Yet an NIB is not a silver bullet for dealing with infrastructure reform, either. ……. This is a major milestone and a unique political opportunity to reform federal investment in infrastructure.

====**AT: Seabasing CP**==== 

**1. Perm – do both**

**2. Seabasing fails**
**Harkavy 6** [Robert E., Professor of Political Science at Pennsylvania State University, 2006, “Thinking about Basing,” http://www.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/Course%20Readings/Harkavy.pdf]
The CBO report briefly discusses four ………….For instance, the sea-basing force envisioned by the CBO for 2035 could cost seventy to ninety billion dollars over that period. Such numbers would dwarf the current non-Egypt/Israel security assistance budgets, raising the prospect of trade-offs between them and sea basing.

**3. Perm – do the plan, then the CP**

**4. Designs for seabasing capabilities don’t even exist-and can’t support full combat operations**
**Sabnis 4** [Amol M., Lt Cdr, Indian Navy, 2004, “Concept of Sea Basing and its Effect on Indo -US Relations: The Way Ahead,” online: http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada520272.pdf]
Sea Basing as a concept is bound to develop further and take a more concrete form. At the very least, it will involve the presence of a large number of US ships in various parts of the world. ……………..Considering the current capabilities vis-à-vis the future capabilities, the concept will take at least fifteen more years to mature into a full-fledged system.

**5. Transition to seabasing freaks out our allies**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam, regional director of Strategic Insight Ltd. And author of numerous articles on strategy and defense policy, Autumn 2011, “Sea Basing: Concepts, Issues, and Recommendations,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]
Whether sea basing can replace land bases, or at least dependence on land bases, raises bureaucratic issues within DoD that contribute to the reluctance to commit to joint sea basing. For one thing, a greater commitment to sea basing……………………………..supported by land-based tactical aviation (including unmanned aerial vehicles flown from the continental United States), investment in sea basing would not seem a priority. 22 At times this seems to be Secretary Gates’s view, but not always. 23 If future wars are going to be dominated by ever more precise global strike from the continental United States—which would seem to be the U.S. Air Force’s preferred future—sea basing would also seem a low priority.

**6. Seabasing collapses heg-causes counter-balancing coalitions**
**Sabnis 4** [Amol M., Lt Cdr, Indian Navy, 2004, “Concept of Sea Basing and its Effect on Indo -US Relations: The Way Ahead,” online: http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada520272.pdf]
Sea basing will give the US the capability to quickly deploy its forces in any part of the globe. This would give the US the potential to act unilaterally in any crisis.. ………………………….Nevertheless, the possibility will remain and increase if the US relies more on its military power vice other elements of national power.

**7. A. Seabasing trades off with PGS**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam, regional director of Strategic Insight Ltd. And author of numerous articles on strategy and defense policy, Autumn 2011, “Sea Basing: Concepts, Issues, and Recommendations,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]
Although the developing planning related to the “Air/Sea Battle” operational concept would seem to be bringing Air Force–Navy cooperation to a peak, ……………The JHSV, which is not considered combat survivable, is designed for high-speed insertion of troops in “‘soft power’ missions—responding to natural disasters, providing humanitarian assistance, conducting port visits and training partner military forces, among others.” 24 In May, the Army transferred its share of the JHSV program to the Navy.

**B. Nuclear war**
**Kerber and Stein 9** [Dr. Ronald, Prof @ Virginia, and Dr. Robert, , Dir. Advanced Programs @ Raytheon, March 2009, “Time Critical Conventional Strike,” Defense Science Board, http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/2009-04-Time_Critical_Strike.pdf]
The U.S. strategic deterrence and strike environment has changed as our adversaries and their tactics have changed. ………………….. An integrated Command, Control, and Communication (C3) is a second key enabler that is critical to effectively providing national leadership with a prompt global strike option.

**8. No support for seabasing – it would only receive small incremental investment**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam, regional director of Strategic Insight Ltd. And author of numerous articles on strategy and defense policy, Autumn 2011, “Sea Basing: Concepts, Issues, and Recommendations,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]
The current Pentagon must deal with a quandary regarding sea basing. ……………….. ashore forces that are larger than SOF units (e.g., Marine expeditionary units), it is unlikely to attract more than incremental investment.

**9. The pentagon doesn’t want seabasing – not a priority**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam, regional director of Strategic Insight Ltd. And author of numerous articles on strategy and defense policy, Autumn 2011, “Sea Basing: Concepts, Issues, and Recommendations,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]
Sea basing is a strategic concept that has been defined in a variety of often contradictory ways.. …………………….. But it is not once mentioned in the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) 2010 report.

**10. Seabasing can’t respond to new threats and trades off with other military capabilities**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam J - regional director of the planning consulting firm Strategic Insight Ltd / retired U.S. Navy captain – 10/1/11, SEA BASING: Concept, Issues, and Recommendations, Publication: Naval War College Review, [[http://www.readperiodicals.com/201110/2441210281.html#b|http://www.readperiodicals.com/201110/2441210281.html#b]]]
Whether sea basing can replace land bases, or at least dependence on land bases, raises bureaucratic issues within DoD ……………………Under these circumstances, sea-basing proponents might emphasize supplementing regional bases rather than replacing them. But in a flat or shrinking defense budget, “supplementing” any capability would likely be seen as a luxury.

**11. Seabasing fails – costly and inflexible**
**Harkavy 6** [Robert E., Professor of Political Science at Pennsylvania State University, 2006, “Thinking about Basing,” http://www.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/Course%20Readings/Harkavy.pdf]
The CBO report briefly discusses four arguments against sea basing, whether on a modest or major scale. ………………….. For instance, the sea-basing force envisioned by the CBO for 2035 could cost seventy to ninety billion dollars over that period. Such numbers would dwarf the current non-Egypt/Israel security assistance budgets, raising the prospect of trade-offs between them and sea basing.

**12. Sea Basing will fail – we don’t have the tech**
**Henning 5** [Mark, Commander in the US Navy, works in US Army Way College in Pennsylvania, “US Navy Transformation: Sea Basing as Sea Power 21 Prototype,” 2005, USAWC [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA432391]]]
In summary, this strategic research paper has presented differing perspectives on what has been argued as Sea Power 21's most transformational pillar, Sea Basing. ……………………. Experience gained through fleet exercises, theater security cooperation, and future ad hoc operations are required; a critical eye should be maintained for future windows of opportunity where technology, resources, and operational doctrine converge to enable a truly, revolutionary transformation.

**13. Designs for seabasing capabilities don’t even exist-and can’t support full combat operations**
**Sabnis 4** [Amol M., Lt Cdr, Indian Navy, 2004, “Concept of Sea Basing and its Effect on Indo -US Relations: The Way Ahead,” online: http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada520272.pdf]
Sea Basing as a concept is bound to develop further and take a more concrete form. At the very least, it will involve the presence of a large number of US ships in various parts of the world…………………………………….Considering the current capabilities vis-à-vis the future capabilities, the concept will take at least fifteen more years to mature into a full-fledged system.

**14. Causes fights**
**Tangredi 11** [Sam, regional director of Strategic Insight Ltd. And author of numerous articles on strategy and defense policy, Autumn 2011, “Sea Basing: Concepts, Issues, and Recommendations,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]
However, tighter resource constraints usually bring out the worst in organizational rivalries …………….Under the current Pentagon leadership and the economic constraints facing the U.S. government, such a clash would likely find sea basing on the short end.

====AT: States CP==== 

**1. Perm – do both - <span style="color: #222222;">shields the link to politics</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Overby 3</span>**<span style="color: #222222;">[A. Brooke, Professor of Law, Tulane University School of Law, “Our New Commercial Law Federalism.” Temple University of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education Temple Law Review, Summer, 2003 76 Temp. L. Rev. 297 Lexis]</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">We held in New York that Congress cannot compel the States to enact or enforce a federal regulatory program. Today we hold that Congress cannot circumvent that prohibition by conscripting the States' officers directly. ………………………….. While drawing the line between constitutionally permissible optional implementation and impermissible mandatory implementation does not erase these concerns with accountability, it does ameliorate them slightly.</span>

**2. Extend Hillyard 5 - public-private partnerships solve best and federal government key – multiple warrants:**

**It would guarantee subsidization and regulation to a common standard – the current system suffers from taxpayer inequities**

**States and local budgets cannot support new federal security standards**

**The federal government is the only entity that could legal mandate and enforce the stopping of shipping entering the U.S. – proves the CP is literally impossible**

**The federal government is the only entity that can afford the initial construction costs**

**No other agency or entity would be capable of conjoining all existing ports and integrate federal functions**

**And, prefer our evidnce – it’s in the context of offshore ports**

**3. States can’t solve - efficiency, timeframe, effectiveness – port security is a federal responsibility**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holmes 12</span>** (<span style="font-size: 9pt;">John, Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles in testimony before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency Director and State & Local Witnesses”, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf, 3/7/12)</span>
Moving the funding to the states is also a big concern for AAPA. Port security is focused on protecting international borders. ………………….. If, however, a decision is made to consolidate the program and move it to the states, AAPA strongly urges your Committee to allocate a set amount of funding for the program to ensure that funding for port security is not diluted further.

**4. The federal government has a constitutional responsibility to maintain port infrastructure**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nagle 12</span>** - Kurt J. Nagle is the president and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Testimony given on March 7, 2012 before the House of Representatives Appropriations Committee, Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, Available Online at http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)
So are we ready? The work of this subcommittee will play a large part in responding to that question. While ports are planning for the future, the federal government has not kept pace with the industry or our international competitors………………………We must realize greater transportation savings to move in a positive economic direction. That means dredging to maintain existing federal channels and dredging to deepen to more effective channel dimensions where it makes economic sense.

**5. States have no way of carrying out the Dutch auction process outlined by the aff – that’s key**

**6. Perm – have the states fund and the federal government implement – ensures solvency and shields the link to politics, spending, and elections**

**7. States have no jurisdiction – USCS and USCG key**
**Allied International Development 2** [“Proposed Allied International Development SUPER-SECURITY OFFSHORE CARGO INSPECTION PORTS For Homeland Defense,” December, 2002]
Federal Operation: o The ports will be operated by the federal government under contract from the consortium. ………………..other designated agency. · Security: o It is anticipated that port security will be provided by the United States Coast Guard, or other designated agency.

**8. Normal means is that the Coast Guard implements the plan – proves states can’t solve**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Rourke 6</span>** - Ronald O’Rourke is a Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for the Congressional Research Service (“Homeland Security: Coast Guard Operations—Background and Issues for Congress,” Published by the Congressional Research Service on June 1, 2006, Number RS21125, Available Online at http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RS21125.pdf)
The Coast Guard’s Role in Homeland Security. The Coast Guard………………… is the lead federal official for security and safety of vessels and waterways in that area.

**9. 50 state fiat bad - vote aff:**

# **A.** **Utopian.** The states have **never** enacted the **same** policy at the same **time**.
> i. **Education.** Prevents debate over more realistic policy options.
> ii. **Predictability.** We can’t predict what never happens.
> iii. **Literature.** No one **refutes** what never happens. This denies us good answers.
> iv. **Intellectual Honesty.** Their authors don’t advocate 50 states utilizing the **same text** – their ev. doesn’t support their version of **fiat** so we don’t **learn** from it.
> v. **Abusive Solvency.** They fiat out of our best ground, such as “states lack uniformity.”

# **B.** **Infinitely regressive.**
> i. **Multi-actor** fiat. They could fiat more and more actors, up to all the governments and agencies in the world, for **abusive** social change.
> ii. **Low-level** fiat. They could use lower levels of government, down to towns and individuals, both of which allow the fiat of a grassroots movement and **unfairly** moot our solvency takeouts.
> iii. They could create nearly infinite **combinations** of states for **unpredictable** ground.
**.**
**10. Perm – do both, except for California**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Credit rating going up now - a lower credit rating would collapse California’s economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tata 12</span>** (Samantha, “S&P Raises California's Credit Rating”, 4-9-12, http://www.nbclosangeles.com/news/local/Californias-Credit-Rating-Gets-a-Boost-139342128.html)//KR//
//Those cuts likely contributed to Tuesday’s decision to buoy California’s credit rating, experts said. "Barring any other credit deterioration, we think …………….. But while that did not affect the country’s overall borrowing rate, a smaller economy – like that of California’s – could be impacted by such a move.//

**B. The counterplan throws off California’s budget-that triggers a credit downgrade**
**MacDonald 12** //(Elizabeth, “S&P: California Can't Afford to Bungle Budget”, FOX business, June 11, 2012, http://www.foxbusiness.com/investing/2012/06/11/sp-california-cant-afford-to-bungle-budget/)//KR
Watch this rigmarole -- California’s state constitution requires it to enact a balanced budget. But “it does not also require that the state end the fiscal year in budgetary balance…………………from "stable" to "positive,” offering a glimmer of hope to California that its credit rating of A-, the worst of all states, might be upgraded, too.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C. California decline collapses US economy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Gvosdev 3** (Nikolas, Editor – National Interest, The National Interest, Vol. 2, Issue 30, 8-13, [[http://www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol2Issue32/Vol2Issue32Realist.html]])</span>
But the real issue is this: people "inside the Beltway" sometimes seem to forget that there is no "United States" apart from the fifty states (and associated territories and commonwealths). A fiscal and economic crisis in California has a direct impact on the power of the United States, since some 13 percent of the total U.S. output is produced by California. California on its own is the sixth largest economy in the world, ………………. "domestic" and "foreign" policy. Ensuring that California survives its current crisis is no less a priority than stabilizing Iraq or containing North Korea.

**D. <span style="background-color: white;">Cross-apply Royal 10 - economic decline causes war –multiple internal links – economic decline causes bloody transition from one leader to the next, uncertainty about power triggers miscalculation, crises get sparked from decreased trade expectations, and the risk of terrorism increases</span>**

===DA Blocks=== 

====AT: Politics DA - Obama Bad - Generic==== 

**2.** **Congress doesn’t like funding ports – views it as useless “earmark” spending**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 12</span>**(Bruce, The Washington Post, 6/21/12, “Report to Congress says seaports on Southeast, Gulf coasts need deeper water for giant ships,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/report-to-congress-says-seaports-on-southeast-gulf-coasts-need-deeper-water-for-giant-ships/2012/06/21/gJQAjzrJtV_story.html)
__The budget crisis has made federal funding for port projects extremely tight__, especially since __Congress__ and President Barack Obama __for the past two years have sworn off so-called “earmark” spending that was used to fund such projects in the past__. ………………the report said, then perhaps state governments and private companies such as shipping lines should be required to pay a greater share.

**4. Fiat takes out the link – we can’t be responsible for the way in which the plan passes – only its implementation**

**5.** **Pol cap’s infinite and renewable**
**Levine 11-21** [Andrew, a Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Obama and the Obedient Democrats Political Capital,” 11-21-2012, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/11/21/political-capital/]
Even so, the system is set up in such a way that presidents are never cleaned out of political capital entirely……………... considerable harm in his second term, adding to the many graver harms he and the eminences behind him accomplished in the aftermath of 9/11.

**6. Issues in Congress are compartmentalized – political capital not key**
**Dickinson 9** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)
What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. ……………….., how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee.

**7. Any transportation legislation drains capital - angers the GOP**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Freemark 10** </span>(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “Growing Conservative Strength Puts Transit Improvements in Doubt” – December 1st, 2010 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/12/01/growing-conservative-strength-puts-transit-improvements-in-doubt/)
The next few years are likely to be difficult for advocates of public transportation because of increased hostility to government investment. ………………..there is any sense that something must be done to expand investment in transportation infrastructure. Gridlock — and myopic thinking about how to improve mobility in the United States — will ensue.

**8. Vote no solves the link**

**9. PC not real - Consensus of political scientists concludes aff**
**Beckman and Kumar 11** (Mathew N and Vival, Department of Political Science, University of California. Journal of Theoretical Politics, vol 23, no 1, January 2011. “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking”.http://jtp.sagepub.com/content/23/1/3.abstract)
Deciding how best to promote the president’s policy initiatives on Capitol Hill is a frequent concern inside the modern White House. ‘Legislative strategy’ sessions attract senior ofﬁcials and fervent debate; ………………. (rather than the endgame), we theorize that typical roll-call-based tests of presidents’ legislative inﬂuence have missed most of it.

**10. A. Funding transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they fear wasteful planning and don’t see the upside.**
**Orski 12** Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge. Unlike traditional utilities, roads and bridges have no rate payers to fall back on. ……………….. they succeed in doing a good job of it. Potholes are rare, transit buses and trains seldom break down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

**B. Public key to agenda**
**The Hill 9** [“Analysis: July has been disaster for Obama, Hill Dems,” 7-27, [[http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/analysis-july-has-been-disaster-for-obama-hill-dems-2009-07-27.html|**http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/analysis-july-has-been-disaster-for-obama-hill-dems-2009-07-27.html**]]**]**
The other misstep that has bogged down the administration on healthcare specifically is Obama's inability to communicate effectively to the American people………………… reclaim his agenda from Congress and start connecting with the public. "He needs to take this over and own it," Light said.

====AT: Politics DA - Obama Good - Generic==== 

**2. Port security legislation is extremely popular**

**A. SMART Act**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 12 (Candice Miller, U.S. Representative for the State of Michigan, 6/28/12, “House Passes SMART Port Security Act,” </span>http://candicemiller.house.gov/press-release/house-passes-smart-port-security-act).
WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Candice Miller (MI-10), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, made the following statement on her legislation, H.R.4251, …………..The SMART Port Security Act passed the House by a vote of 402 to 21 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Miller

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. GAPS Act</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government Security News 12</span>** (Government Security News, “Congresswoman Hahn’s port security bill passes in the House,” 29 June 2012, http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/26671)
Rep. Janice Hahn’s port security legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 411 to 9. H.R. 4005, Gauging American Port Security Act, or GAPS Act directs DHS to conduct a comprehensive classified examination of remaining gaps in port security and prepare a plan to address them. “……………….said Geraldine Knatz, executive director of the Port of Los Angeles. “Trade gateways, like the Port of Los Angeles, are critical pieces of our nation's economic infrastructure. Keeping these gateways safe is a national priority.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. </span>**Pol cap’s infinite and renewable**
**Levine 11-21** [Andrew, a Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Obama and the Obedient Democrats Political Capital,” 11-21-2012, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/11/21/political-capital/]
Even so, the system is set up in such a way that presidents are never cleaned out of political capital …………….. many graver harms he and the eminences behind him accomplished in the aftermath of 9/11.

**4. PC not key**
**Klein 12** [Ezra, editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg, “The Unpersuaded Who listens to a President?, 3/19/12, http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/03/19/120319fa_fact_klein#ixzz1p36PrMbH]
This, Edwards says, is the reality facing modern Presidents, and one they would do well to accommodate. “In a rational world, strategies for governing should match the opportunities to be exploited,” he writes. “Barack Obama is only the latest in a long line of presidents who have not been able to transform the political landscape through their efforts at persuasion. …………….parliament, with party-line voting, without the empowered Prime Minister.” And you can’t solve that with a speech. ♦

**5. Issues in Congress are compartmentalized**
**Dickinson 9** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)
What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress…………….Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6. </span>**Fiat takes out the link – we can’t be responsible for the way in which the plan passes – only its implementation**

**8. Plan builds Obama’s capital**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garrett 11 </span>Garrett, Sierra. This thesis was mentored and overseen by Dr. R. Mark Isaac, Institute for Energy Systems, Economics and Sustainability at Florida State University –"Florida High-Speed Rail: An Economic Policy Analysis" (2011). Honors Theses. Paper 13. – available at: http://diginole.lib.fsu.edu/uhm/13
Infrastructure projects are also important to politicians as political capital. As John Bartle writes about transportation infrastructure, a completed project ……………….. Infrastructure projects are also used nominally to aid low-income areas or groups of people, under the premise that development and investment will spur economic growth. Economists such as Bartle, however, believe direct subsidy to these individuals (rather than in the form of capital investment) is more effective and efficient.52

**9. Winners win**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Marshall and Prins 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)</span>
Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into real policysuccess. Policy success not only shapes the reelection prospects of presidents, but it also builds the president’s reputation ……………. The use of force is no exception; in promoting and protecting U.S. interests abroad, presidential decisions are made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).

**10. Even the fight itself accrues capital**
**Newstex 11** [Cruiskeen Consulting LLC, “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win , http://uppitywis.org/blogarticle/done-deals-or-sometimes-losing-how-you-win]
Right off the bat, you might be surprised how often you can win, even when you did not think you would; the fights over DADT and Elizabeth Warren's nomination are a couple of recent examples that come to mind. ……………..just as we wish the President would, then to find ourselves hanging back and doing nothing at all today...and then voting for Jack Box for President 2012 as a way of expressing our frustration.

**11. PC not real - Consensus of political scientists concludes aff**
**Beckman and Kumar 11** (Mathew N and Vival, Department of Political Science, University of California. Journal of Theoretical Politics, vol 23, no 1, January 2011. “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking”.http://jtp.sagepub.com/content/23/1/3.abstract)
Deciding how best to promote the president’s policy initiatives on Capitol Hill is a frequent concern inside the modern White House. ‘Legislative strategy’ sessions attract senior ofﬁcials and fervent debate; ……………….. Precisely because so much of the presidents’ inﬂuence comes in the legislative earlygame (rather than the endgame), we theorize that typical roll-call-based tests of presidents’ legislative inﬂuence have missed most of it.

**More ev – SMART and GAPS enjoyed bipart support**
**McCarty 7-2** (Mickey McCarter is homeland security beat reporter in Washington DC. Up until 9/11, worked as a military affairs and technology editor and reporter. But he later followed US counter-terrorism activities. Now he reports for Homeland Security Today on congressional activity.; “Aviation, Port Security Bills Enjoy Bipartisan Support from House Lawmakers”; 07/02/2012; http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/today-s-news-analysis/single-article/aviation-port-security-bills-enjoy-bipartisan-support-from-house-lawmakers/8774d00b80793d7b125324dc9dad3510.html)
Democrats applauded last week the passage by the House of several homeland security bills designed to strengthen aviation and port security. ……………..Our nation's ports are as diverse as the people they serve and the importance of this infrastructure to the global supply chain cannot be overstated," he concluded

**And, three other bills prove the plan has bipart support**
**Chemical Facility Security News 12** [“Port Security Votes,” June 30, 2012, http://chemical-facility-security-news.blogspot.com/2012/06/port-security-votes.html?m=1]
As I noted last weekend the House was scheduled to consider three separate port security related bills; HR 3173, HR 4005, and HR 4251. All three were debated on Tuesday, but a lack of a quorum caused the actual votes to be pushed back……………….. On Thursday the House passed all three bills; two by overwhelmingly bipartisan votes and the other by a voice vote.

====AT: Politics DA - Obama Good – Farm Bill==== 

**2. Port security legislation is extremely popular**

**A. SMART Act**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 12 (Candice Miller, U.S. Representative for the State of Michigan, 6/28/12, “House Passes SMART Port Security Act,” </span>http://candicemiller.house.gov/press-release/house-passes-smart-port-security-act).
WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Candice Miller (MI-10), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, made the following statement on her legislation, H.R.4251, the Securing Maritime Activities through Risk-based Targeting (SMART) for Port Security Act……………….. The SMART Port Security Act passed the House by a vote of 402 to 21 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Miller

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. GAPS Act</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government Security News 12</span>** (Government Security News, “Congresswoman Hahn’s port security bill passes in the House,” 29 June 2012, http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/26671)
Rep. Janice Hahn’s port security legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 411 to 9. H.R. 4005………………….said Geraldine Knatz, executive director of the Port of Los Angeles. “Trade gateways, like the Port of Los Angeles, are critical pieces of our nation's economic infrastructure. Keeping these gateways safe is a national priority.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. </span>**Pol cap’s infinite and renewable**
**Levine 11-21** [Andrew, a Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Obama and the Obedient Democrats Political Capital,” 11-21-2012, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/11/21/political-capital/]
Even so, __the system is set up in such a way that presidents are never cleaned out of political capital__ entirely; __a hefty and always renewable load is a perquisite of the office__. And so it is that Bush went on to do considerable harm in his second term, adding to the many graver harms he and the eminences behind him accomplished in the aftermath of 9/11.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. </span>**PC not key**
**Klein 12** [Ezra, editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg, “The Unpersuaded Who listens to a President?, 3/19/12, http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/03/19/120319fa_fact_klein#ixzz1p36PrMbH]
This, Edwards says, is the reality facing modern Presidents, and one they would do well to accommodate. “In a rational world, strategies for governing should match the opportunities to be exploited,” he writes. “…………………., __“We’ve effectively lost our Congress and gained a parliament.”__ He adds, __“At least a Prime Minister is empowered to get things done,” but “we have the extreme polarization of a parliament, with party-line voting, without the empowered Prime Minister.” And you can’t solve that with a speech__. ♦

**5. Issues in Congress are compartmentalized**
**Dickinson 9** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)
What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” …………………. Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee.

**8. Farm bill not key – there’s no impact**
**Smith 9-14 [**Vince, an American Enterprise Institute visiting fellow, a professor at Montana State University, “Commentary: What if there is no new farm bill?,” 9-14-2012, http://www.cattlenetwork.com/cattle-news/Commentary-What-if-there-is-no-new-farm-bill-169791146.html]
The short answer: The sky won’t fall. The longer and more nuanced answer: Heck no, the sky won’t fall. To put pressure on the House Republican leadership, some farm lobby groups are arguing that the …………… Chicken Little will mend the bump on his head from the acorn, and U.S. agricultural, which the USDA predicts will earn record revenues and profits from its 2012 crops, livestock sales and government subsidies, will continue to enjoy a banner year.

**9. Plan builds Obama’s capital**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Garrett 11** </span>Garrett, Sierra. This thesis was mentored and overseen by Dr. R. Mark Isaac, Institute for Energy Systems, Economics and Sustainability at Florida State University –"Florida High-Speed Rail: An Economic Policy Analysis" (2011). Honors Theses. Paper 13. – available at: http://diginole.lib.fsu.edu/uhm/13
Infrastructure projects are also important to politicians as political capital…………………. groups of people, under the premise that development and investment will spur economic growth. Economists such as Bartle, however, believe direct subsidy to these individuals (rather than in the form of capital investment) is more effective and efficient.52

**10. Winners win**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Marshall and Prins 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)</span>
Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into …………………. The use of force is no exception; in promoting and protecting U.S. interests abroad, presidential decisions are made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).

**11. Even the fight itself accrues capital**
**Newstex 11** [Cruiskeen Consulting LLC, “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win , http://uppitywis.org/blogarticle/done-deals-or-sometimes-losing-how-you-win]
Right off the bat, you might be surprised how often you can win, even when you did not think you would; the fights over DADT and Elizabeth Warren's nomination are a couple of recent examples that come to mind. ………………………..including what is going to happen to Social Security and the potential for reforming Senate rules; but win or lose, it's probably a better idea to be trying to fight these fights, loudly and logically, just as we wish the President would, then to find ourselves hanging back and doing nothing at all today...and then voting for Jack Box for President 2012 as a way of expressing our frustration.

**12. PC not real - Consensus of political scientists concludes aff**
**Beckman and Kumar 11** (Mathew N and Vival, Department of Political Science, University of California. Journal of Theoretical Politics, vol 23, no 1, January 2011. “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking”.http://jtp.sagepub.com/content/23/1/3.abstract)
Deciding how best to promote the president’s policy initiatives on Capitol Hill is a frequent concern inside the modern White House. ‘Legislative strategy’ sessions attract senior ofﬁcials and fervent debate; ………………………..we theorize that presidents’ foremost inﬂuence comes from bargaining with congressional leaders over policy alternatives before bills reach the ﬂoor, not bargaining with pivotal voters for their support once they do. Precisely because so much of the presidents’ inﬂuence comes in the legislative earlygame (rather than the endgame), we theorize that typical roll-call-based tests of presidents’ legislative inﬂuence have missed most of it.

====AT: Politics DA - Obama Good – Fiscal Cliff==== 

**2. Port security legislation is extremely popular**

**A. SMART Act**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 12 (Candice Miller, U.S. Representative for the State of Michigan, 6/28/12, “House Passes SMART Port Security Act,” </span>http://candicemiller.house.gov/press-release/house-passes-smart-port-security-act).
WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Candice Miller (MI-10), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, made the following statement on her legislation, H.R.4251, ……………………….. The SMART Port Security Act passed the House by a vote of 402 to 21 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Miller

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. GAPS Act</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government Security News 12</span>** (Government Security News, “Congresswoman Hahn’s port security bill passes in the House,” 29 June 2012, http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/26671)
Rep. Janice Hahn’s port security legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 411 to 9. H.R. 4005………………………..said Geraldine Knatz, executive director of the Port of Los Angeles. “Trade gateways, like the Port of Los Angeles, are critical pieces of our nation's economic infrastructure. Keeping these gateways safe is a national priority.

**3**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>**Pol cap’s infinite and renewable**
**Levine 11-21** [Andrew, a Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Obama and the Obedient Democrats Political Capital,” 11-21-2012, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/11/21/political-capital/]
Even so, the system is set up in such a way that presidents are never cleaned out of political capital entirely; a hefty and always renewable load is a perquisite of the office. And so it is that Bush went on to do considerable harm in his second term, adding to the many graver harms he and the eminences behind him accomplished in the aftermath of 9/11.

**4. Obama has insufficient political capital to negotiate fiscal cliff**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Washington Times 11-7 [</span>“EDITORIAL: Obama: A lame-duck president,” <span style="font-size: 12pt;">November 7</span>**,** 2012 http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/nov/7/obama-a-lame-duck-president-lack-of-convincing-man/]
When it comes to America’s problems, there will be no slowdown. The hard issues that were shunted aside until after the election will soon come due. The looming fiscal cliff will be Mr. Obama’s first post-election test………………………..Calling Mr. Obama a lame duck simply affirms what has been true all along.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5. </span>**Fiat takes out the link – we can’t be responsible for the way in which the plan passes – only its implementation**

**6. Obama’s not key to the cliff**
**Warren** **11-9** (James, Chicago editor for the Daily Beast,<span class="apple-converted-space"> “President Obama’s Hill Challenge in Avoiding Fiscal Cliff,” </span>11/9/2012, http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/11/09/president-obama-s-hill-challenge-in-avoiding-fiscal-cliff.html)
Obama “has to change the way he operates,” argues Cook. “The White House motto seems to be ‘No New Friends,’” his allusion to the small and tight group of mostly Chicago chums with whom the president and Michelle Obama socialize………………………... And it may be equally unclear whether a more overtly engaged Obama would alter the bargaining landscape, given underlying political frictions in both parties—and changes in the capital’s own political and social culture.

**8. Compromise inevitable – no one wants to go over the cliff**
**West** **11-11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(U.S. practice head and director at Eurasia Group, Perspective: Obama-Boehner fiscal cliff a self-denying prophecy, staugustine.com/opinions/2012-11-10/perspective-obama-boehner-fiscal-cliff-self-denying-prophecy#.UJ-a0W_XbMQ)</span>
Thus, avoiding the fiscal cliff requires only “building a bridge” to the new year. Both sides have clear incentives to avoid a disaster for which both parties would be blamed. Neither side has a better alternative………………………..Will Washington do all this before the New Year’s Eve ball drops in Times Square? Given the pain that failure would inflict on everyone involved, both sides have little choice.

**9. Plan builds Obama’s capital**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Garrett 11** </span>Garrett, Sierra. This thesis was mentored and overseen by Dr. R. Mark Isaac, Institute for Energy Systems, Economics and Sustainability at Florida State University –"Florida High-Speed Rail: An Economic Policy Analysis" (2011). Honors Theses. Paper 13. – available at: http://diginole.lib.fsu.edu/uhm/13
Infrastructure projects are also important to politicians as political capital. As John Bartle writes about transportation infrastructure, ………………………... Economists such as Bartle, however, believe direct subsidy to these individuals (rather than in the form of capital investment) is more effective and efficient.52

**10. No fiscal cliff – it’s a myth**
**Klein 11-12** [Joe, political columnist for Time, member, Council on Foreign Relations, former Guggenheim Fellow and Consultant to CBS News, Time Magazine, in the Arena, “Closing Arguments,” 11-12-2012]
There are some things I can just about guarantee, no matter who wins this election………………………..We will struggle along, secure in our freedom, and eventually prosper. That is the American way: we make fools of pessimists.

**11. Winners win**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Marshall and Prins 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)</span>
Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into real policysuccess. Policy success not only shapes the reelection prospects of presidents, but it also builds the president’s ………………………..The use of force is no exception; in promoting and protecting U.S. interests abroad, presidential decisions are made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).

**12. Even the fight itself accrues capital**
**Newstex 11** [Cruiskeen Consulting LLC, “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win , http://uppitywis.org/blogarticle/done-deals-or-sometimes-losing-how-you-win]
Right off the bat, you might be surprised how often you can win, even when you did not think you would; the fights over DADT and Elizabeth Warren's nomination are a couple of recent examples that come to mind. ……………………….., loudly and logically, just as we wish the President would, then to find ourselves hanging back and doing nothing at all today...and then voting for Jack Box for President 2012 as a way of expressing our frustration.

**13. There’s no impact:**

**A. They’ll just delay the cuts**
**Barno 11-7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- retired Lieutenant General of the United States Army. Master’s in National Security and Strategic Studies from Georgetown University—Dr. Nora Bensahel is Deputy Director of Studies and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security—AND Joel Smith and Jacob Stokes; Research Assistants at the Center for a New American Security (Brace Yourself, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/07/brace_yourself?page=full|www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/07/brace_yourself?page=full]])</span>
If Congress and the president fail to strike a comprehensive deal, they will face substantial pressure to delay some or all of the fiscal cliff provisions, including sequestration, before theytake effect on January 2. ………………………..Conversely, the president and many congressional Democrats would lose a lot of bargaining power by agreeing to a delay. Unless Democrats concluded that the public would blame them -- and them alone -- for going off the fiscal cliff, there is little incentive for them to postpone the day of reckoning.

**B. A January deal solves**
**Chait 11-8** - NY Mag (Jonathan, Erskine Bowles Bids to Spoil Obama Second Term, nymag.com/daily/intel/2012/11/erskine-bowles-bids-to-spoil-obama-second-term.html)
That is totally false.¶ Going over the fiscal cliff and then doing nothing for another year would mean a huge tax hike and spending cut. ………………………..He’ll have all the revenue he wants and more. He could offer them a tax cut. He’ll likewise have huge defense cuts to bargain away.

**14. Clinton can broker the compromise**
**Christian Science Monitor 11-7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“Would tea party accept a Bill Clinton-brokered deal with Obama?,” 11/7/2012, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/2012/1107/Would-tea-party-accept-a-Bill-Clinton-brokered-deal-with-Obama)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Brigitte Nacos is a political scientist at Columbia University who studies the GOP’s tea party splinter coalition</span>//
Yet given the country’s vote Tuesday, at least one tea party blogger suggested that studied compromise may have to replace the line-in-the-sand absolutism that left last year’s negotiations on the debt ceiling in ……………………….. “Either way, we need to talk about the Clinton philosophy towards making the country go again, which was, ‘I’ll meet you on tax side if you meet on spending side.’ ”

====AT: Russian Oil DA==== 

**1. Non-unique - prices just crashed**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LA Times 7/27</span> (“Oil prices crashed and Chevron still made nearly $24 a barrel”, http://www.latimes.com//money/la-fi-mo-chevron-oil-earnings-20120727,0,7043509.story, ZBurdette)
Take just about any business situation in which the value of a company's primary product suddenly falls by more than 29% and it could be time to panic. Then there is the oil patch, where billions of dollars in profits are possible even after that kind of collapse in crude prices. ………………………..Chevron had a positive margin of $23.53 on every barrel of crude it produced, according to analysts. Chevron said its margin was actually $26 a barrel.

**2. There’s literally no link – we don’t influence oil prices or cause people to shift away from cars to an alternative form of transportation, which is what their evidence assumes**

**High oil prices cause Dutch Disease - that internal link turns Russian growth**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernstam and Rabushka 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Michael S. Bernstam, a research fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, is an economic demographer who studies economic systems in their relationship with income, population, financial development, natural resources, the environment, conflict, and other social change AND Alvin Rabushka is the David and Joan Traitel Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (“The Dutch Disease: Peter the Great's Real Legacy?”, July 2, 2001, [[http://www.hoover.org/research/projects-and-programs/russian-economy/6020]], ZBurdette)</span>
On June 29, 2001, the Russian government stated that it would soon introduce legislation to reduce the obligatory selling of foreign currency proceeds by exporters to the Central Bank from 75 to 50 percent………………………..Sacrificing current growth from high oil earnings appears to be a price worth paying to encourage an increase in domestic non-oil output and the promise of higher future growth from a weaker ruble.

**Russian economic collapse empirically doesn’t cause war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FAS 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Federation of American Scientists, [[http://www.fas.org/news/russia/2000/russia/part08.htm]], ZBurdette)</span>
SEARCHING FOR FOOD: Following the complete collapse of the Russian economy in 1998, the number of people living below the official poverty line--in Russia, a measure of truly desperate conditions--rose to nearly 40………………………..Millions of ordinary men and women who had deposited their money in Russian banks lost everything. Here, an elderly Russian woman takes fruit from a trash bin in Moscow, August 28, 1998. AP Photo/Misha Japaridze

**Russia is infected with Dutch Disease**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Algieri 4</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bernardina, The University of BonnCenter for Development Research, “The Effects Of The Dutch Disease In Russia”, [[http://ideas.repec.org/p/ags/ubzefd/18721.html]], ZBurdette)</span>
This paper shows how the Dutch Disease has affected the Russian economy since the start of the transition in the early 1990s. ………………………... This indicates that the Russian economy is also affected by symptoms 3 and 4. We conclude that Russia's government should invest the tax revenues collected from the resource sector such that the structure of the economy becomes more diversified and less vulnerable to exogenous shocks.

====AT: Sacred Cow DA==== 

**1. Non-unique and empirically denied – huge transportation bill passed over the summer and tons of bills pass all the time**

**2. No link – our interpretation of fiat is that the plan is not perceived as an off-budget funding project and the USFG only provides the initial start up money**

**And, we have evidentiary support for our interpretation of fiat – cross-apply Tuck School of Business 10 from solvency – the USFG provides the initial construction costs, but then a Dutch auction is held for private companies to bid on the ports – the initial costs to the USFG would be repaid**

**<span style="background-color: white;">3. A. </span>****Transportation infrastructure unpopular with GOP – election year politics and spending squabbles.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Lowy 12** [</span>Joan Lowy is a reporter covering transportation issues for the Associated Press including FAA, NTSB and the department of transportation – Associated Press Financial Wire – May 1, 2012 – lexis]
The bill is driven partly by election-year politics. Both Congress and President Barack Obama have made transportation infrastructure investment the centerpiece of their jobs agendas. ………………………..over how states spend their aid money. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has said it's unlikely Congress will pass a final bill until after the November elections.

**<span style="background-color: white;">B. That means there’s no link – their own ev</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Boskin 96</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> **-** senior fellow at the Hoover Institute (Michael, Congressional Record, 142 Con Rec H, 4/17/1996)</span>
I believe it is likely that **__moving one popular spending program__** primarily __financed by earmarked revenues off-budget would lead to a stampede__ first of other trust funds off- budget and then all other spending programs seeking to be funded with earmarked revenue sources. This would quickly render sensible tax and budget policy impossible.

**4.** **Portunus saves money – that would off-set the earmark funding:**

**A. Fuel costs and decreased vessel use**
**Kellogg School of Management 10** [James Diaz-Barriga, Eric Sieckmann, David Stone, and Marcelo Porto, “Portunus Project” April 29, 2010]
Economic Impact on Overseas Shipping Efficiency:…__We estimate that total annual savings from fleet reductions will be roughly $500 million per year.__

**B. Extra duties**
**Kellogg School of Management 10** [James Diaz-Barriga, Eric Sieckmann, David Stone, and Marcelo Porto, “Portunus Project” April 29, 2010]
Economic Impact on Import Duties: Currently, __the U__nited __S__tates...__would yield__ approximately __$2.26 billion dollars/year.__

===T Blocks=== 

====AT: ASPEC (Short)==== 

**1. W/M – the USFG is our actor**

**2. Prefer this interpretation:**

**a. Remedies all of their offense claims – they still get agent cp ground, which is their only offensive warrant**

**b. Increases negative ground – they can read disads based on all three branches – this increases their strategic offense**

**c. Refocuses the debate on the plan text – we will defend the exact wording of the plan, which checks all abuse claims and allows for better cp debating**

**3. Cross-x checks – we should have the right to clarify**

**4. No rez basis – the rez specifies the USFG**

**5. ASPEC is not a voter – don’t vote on potential abuse – it’s infinitely regressive and leads to judge intervention**

====AT: Increase = New==== 

**1. W/M – there is no funding for offshore ports in the squo**

**2. Counter interpretation: Increase….**
1. **__to make greater__,** as **__in number__,** size, strength, or quality; augment; add to: to increase taxes.
Random House 2006 (Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2006. <http://dictionary.reference.com>)

**3. Prefer our C/I:**

**a. Predictable Limits - our definition provides the only limits - there are an infinite number of potential forms of investment - the only check is what exists today.**

**b. Neg Ground - our links will always be more specific for stuff that exists because people write about it more often - key to clash, which is the only way to access in-round education.**

**c. Brightline - our definition provides the best brightline - it’s an objective measurement. There’s no way to determine what has to be new in the context of the resolution.**

**4. Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad - they force a race to the bottom and are infinitely regressive. Justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check the neg bias on T- it’s no risk offense.**

**c. Don’t vote on potential abuse, it’s infinitely regressive and forces judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

====AT: Investment Excludes PPPs==== 

**1. C/I - Investment must include public-private partnerships – anything else distorts the topic**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heller 9</span> (Peter S., Former Deputy Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department – International Monetary Fund and Currently Senior Adjunct Professor of International Economics – Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at The Johns Hopkins University, “Public Investment: Vital for Growth and Renewal, But Should it be a Countercyclical Weapon?”, http://www.unctad.org/en/Docs/webdiae20091_en.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While any capital outlay</span> of a government <span style="font-size: 12pt;">would be defined as</span> “public <span style="font-size: 12pt;">investment” in normal</span> budgetary <span style="font-size: 12pt;">classification terms, this approach </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">sidesteps</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a number of important conceptual issues</span>……………………….. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rather than being </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">misled</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> by a </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">narrow budgetary classification</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, what is important to recognize are the ways in which governments have a responsibility in the creation of capital goods and their need to intervene</span>, particularly when market failure leads to underspending on goods vital for the realization of public policy objectives.

**2. Prefer our C/I:**

**a. Predictable Limits - our definition provides the only limits without distorting the topic – PPPs are key to aff and neg strategy**

**b. Neg Ground – we guarantee them links to core negative CPs and DAs based on increasing investment in transportation infrastructure.**

**3. Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad - they force a race to the bottom and are infinitely regressive. Justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check the neg bias on T- it’s no risk offense.**

**c. Don’t vote on potential abuse, it’s infinitely regressive and forces judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

====AT: Its==== 

**1. W/M – the plan specifies federal government action as the actor for the initial funding and development of offshore ports.**

**2. Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad - they force a race to the bottom and are infinitely regressive. Justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check the neg bias on T- it’s no risk offense.**

**c. Don’t vote on potential abuse, it’s infinitely regressive and forces judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

====AT: In = Throughout==== 

**1. W/M – we increase investment for offshore ports throughout the U.S.**

**2. W/M – offshore ports would be placed throughout the U.S.**

**3. C/I - “In” means within - this is the core meaning**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Encarta 7</span> – Encarta World English Dictionary, 7 (“In (1)”, 2007, [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620513]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in</span> [ [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/Pronounce.aspx?search=in|in]] ] //<span style="font-size: 11pt;">CORE MEANING</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: a grammatical word indicating that something or somebody is within or inside something</span>. ……………………….. holding power or office: indicates that a party or group has achieved or will achieve power or authority voted in overwhelmingly

**Offshore ports would be within 40 miles of shore**
**Wampler 10** [Stephen, Newsline Staff Writer, July 2, 2010, https://newsline.llnl.gov/_rev02/articles/2010/jul/07.02.10-ports.php]
Future __U.S. ports could be located in the ocean, 20 to 40 miles from shore, under the proposed Portunus project.__ The off-shore port concept would allow cargo to be inspected far away from cities as one way to increase homeland security.

**That’s within the U.S.’ EEZ**
**NOAA OCS No Date** [“U.S. Maritime Limits & Boundaries,” http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/csdl/mbound.htm]
__Maritime limits and boundaries for the U__nited __S__tates __are measured from the official U.S. baseline__, recognized as the low-water line along the coast as marked on the NOAA nautical charts in accordance with the articles of the Law of the Sea. __The Office of Coast Survey depicts__ on its nautical charts the territorial sea (12 nautical miles), contiguous zone (24nm), and __exclusive economic zone (200nm__, plus maritime boundaries with adjacent/opposite countries).

**3. Prefer our interpretation:**

**a. Limits – We only allows for affs, which increase transportation infrastructure investment within the U.S., while limiting out affs, such as icebreakers and GPS, which occur outside U.S. jurisdiction**

**b. Ground – we increase specificity of link and counterplan ground**

**4. Their interpretation is flawed - the term “throughout” moots resolutional intent and lacks a clear brightline.**

**5. Doesn’t make sense – we are all in this room, but none of us are throughout this room – proves our interp is best.**

**6.** **Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad- it creates a race to the bottom, is infinitely regressive and justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check unpredictable neg definitions and checks the neg block bias.**

**c. Potential abuse is not a voter - it’s infinitely regressive and leads to judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

====AT: In = Within==== 

**1. W/M – the investment in offshore ports occurs within the limits of the U.S.**

**2. W/M – the offshore ports would be within 40 miles of shore**
**Wampler 10** [Stephen, Newsline Staff Writer, July 2, 2010, https://newsline.llnl.gov/_rev02/articles/2010/jul/07.02.10-ports.php]
Future __U.S. ports could be located in the ocean, 20 to 40 miles from shore, under the proposed Portunus project.__ The off-shore port concept would allow cargo to be inspected far away from cities as one way to increase homeland security.

**That’s within the U.S.’ EEZ**
**NOAA OCS No Date** [“U.S. Maritime Limits & Boundaries,” http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/csdl/mbound.htm]
__Maritime limits and boundaries for the U__nited __S__tates __are measured from the official U.S. baseline__, recognized as the low-water line along the coast as marked on the NOAA nautical charts in accordance with the articles of the Law of the Sea. __The Office of Coast Survey depicts__ on its nautical charts the territorial sea (12 nautical miles), contiguous zone (24nm), and __exclusive economic zone (200nm__, plus maritime boundaries with adjacent/opposite countries).

**3. C/I - the U.S. includes all waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 6</span>** (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “United States,” Volume 43A, p. 265)
C.A.5 (Fla.) 1974. Term “<span style="font-size: 12pt;">United States</span>,” as used in Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control act in a territorial sense, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">includes all the places and waters,</span> continental or insular, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,</span> except the Canal Zone.

**4. Prefer our interpretation:**

**a a. Limits – We only allows for affs, which increase transportation infrastructure investment within the U.S., while limiting out affs, such as icebreakers and GPS, which occur outside U.S. jurisdiction**

**b. Ground – we increase specificity of link and counterplan ground**

**4.** **Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad- it creates a race to the bottom, is infinitely regressive and justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check unpredictable neg definitions and checks the neg block bias.**

**c. Potential abuse is not a voter - it’s infinitely regressive and leads to judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

====AT: TI – Generic==== 

**1. C/I - transportation infrastructure includes ports**
**The White House Office of the Press Secretary 11** The American Job Act: President Obama’s Plan To Create Jobs Now http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf BK
(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- __The term `transportation infrastructure project' means__ the construction, alteration, or repair, including the facilitation of intermodal transit, of the following subsectors: (i) __Highway or road__. (ii) __Bridge__. (iii) __Mass transit__. (iv) __Inland waterways__. (v) __Commercial ports__. (vi) __Airports__. (vii) __Air traffic control systems__. (viii) __Passenger rail, including high-speed rail__. (ix) __Freight rail systems__.

**2. Prefer our C/I:**

**a. Predictable limits – our definition provides the best limits, by allowing core of the topic affs, while excluding affs such as energy and carbon pipelines.**

**b. Neg ground – we still guarantee them core negative DA and CP ground based on increasing investment in transportation infrastructure.**

**3. Topicality is not a voter**

**a. Competing interpretations are bad - they force a race to the bottom and are infinitely regressive. Justifies “counter interpretation: only our case is topical”**

**b. Prefer reasonability - it’s key to check the neg bias on T- it’s no risk offense.**

**c. Don’t vote on potential abuse, it’s infinitely regressive and forces judge intervention. Make them prove in round abuse**

===K Blocks=== 

====Cap==== 

**1. Perm – do both**

**2. Capitalism is sustainable – self-correcting**
**Seabra 12** (Leo, has a background in Communication and Broadcasting and a broad experience which includes activities in Marketing, Advertising, Sales and Public Relations, 2/27, “Capitalism can drive Sustainability and also innovation,” http://seabraaffairs.wordpress.com/2012/02/27/capitalism-can-drive-sustainability-and-also-innovation/)
There are those who say that if the world does not change their habits, even the end of economic growth, and assuming alternative ways of living, ……………………………….. wake up … what can not stop the engine of innovation is that the free market engenders. This system is self correcting, that is its beauty. We do not need to do nothing but ensure the conditions for it to work without distortion. The rest he does himself. It regulates itself.

**3. Capitalism key to quality of life**
**Rockwell 2** [Llewellyn H., “The Marvel That Is Capitalism” 4-8-2002, http://mises.org/article.aspx?Id=929&FS=The+Marvel+That+Is+Capitalism]
The Quality of Life Looking at people’s life spans, we see the hidden history of the rise of economic development. , ……………………………….. where property rights are not secure, and where investment for the long term is not permitted. The result is always the same: poverty, despotism, death.

**4. Capitalism is inevitable**
**Wood 2** (Ellen M., Ph.D in political science from UCLA, The Origin of Capitalism, pg. 4-6)
//**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language**//
These question-begging explanations have their origina in classical political,...the organization and instruments of work in order to enhance the productivity of labor.

**5. A. Capitalism is key to protecting the environment**
**Taylor 3** [Jerry, "Happy Earth Day? Thank Capitalism" CATO Institute, April 23, 2003, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3073]
Indeed, we wouldn't even have environmentalists in our midst were it not for capitalism. Environmental amenities,...Capitalism can save more lives threatened by environmental pollution than all the environmental organizations combined.

**B. Species loss leads to total ecosystem collapse and extinction**
**Diner 94** (Major David N., Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army, Military Law Review, Winter, Lexis)
Biological Diversity. -- The main premise of species preservation…80 mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

**6. Perm – do the plan and reject capitalism in all other instances**

**7. Ethical judgments about capitalism in the abstract should be avoided – its complete abandonment is neither possible nor desirable – experimentation through the perm is necessary to benefit humynity**
**Manuel** DeLanda**,** 19**97**, Adjunct Associate Professor – Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation – Columbia University, A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History, pgs. 66-70
Thus, much as sedimentary rocks, biological species, and social hierarchies are...keys to understanding sedimentary humanity, igneous humanity, and all their mixtures.

====Security==== 

**Perm – do both - we can still do the plan and maintain a critical eye, allowing us to rethink securitization.**
**Murray 97** - Professor of Politics at the University of Wales (Alastair J.H., “Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics”, p. 193-196, 1997)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For realism, man remains, in the final analysis, limited by himself. As such, it emphasizes caution, and focuses not merely upon the achievement of long-term objectives, but also upon the resolution of more immediate difficulties. Given that, in the absence of a resolution of such difficulties, longer-term objectives are liable to be unachievable, realism would seem to offer a more effective strategy of transition than reflectivism itself. ………………………, before reform is attempted, whatever measure of security is possible under contemporary conditions must first be ensured.</span>

**No impact – threat construction isn’t sufficient to cause wars**
**Kaufman** **9** (Stuart J, Prof Poli Sci and IR – U Delaware, “Narratives and Symbols in Violent Mobilization: The Palestinian-Israeli Case,” //Security Studies// 18:3, 400 – 434)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even when hostile narratives, group fears, and opportunity are strongly present, war occurs only if these factors are harnessed. ………………………this is consociationalism.17 War is likely only if hostile narratives, fears, and opportunity spur hostile attitudes, chauvinist mobilization, and a security dilemma.</span>

**Rejection of securitization leads to instability and international intervention – doesn’t enable radical democracy – turns their impact**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**McCormack 10** – Lecturer in International Politics, </span>Tara McCormack, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, pg. 127-129
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The following section will briefly raise some questions about the rejection of the old security framework as it has been taken up by the most powerful institutions and states ………………………. In new security frameworks such as human security we can see the political limits of the framework proposed by critical and emancipatory theoretical approaches.</span>

**Realism is functionally inevitable – rejecting it is impossible and will lead to worse conflicts**
**Guzzini 98**[Stefano, Assistant Professor at Central European Univ., Realism in International Relations and
International Political Economy, 1998,p. 212]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Therefore, in a third step, this chapter also claims that it is impossible just to heap realism onto the dustbin of history apd start anew. ………………………the more irresponsible claims made in the name, although not always necessarily in the spirit of realism.</span>

**Perm – do the plan and all non-mutually exclusive parts of the alternative**

**Their framework locks us into endless epistemological-debates – proves the alt causes policy paralysis and extinction**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wendt 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international security – Ohio State University, Alexander, “On Constitution and Causation in International Relations,” British International Studies Association)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a community, we in the academic study of international politics spend too much time worrying about the kind of issues addressed in this essay. The central point of IR ………………………Third Debate’s sparring over epistemology is often one-sided, intolerant caricatures of science.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism is a real threat – multiple empirical examples prove**

**And, it isn’t a media constructed image**
**Picard** **93** (Robert – Prof Cal State Fullerton – Media Portrayals of Terrorism, 1993)
Some of the most serious terrorism researchers are not convinced that media can be blamed for causing or assisting ………………………. Instead, they reveal the most important factors to be terrorist groups helping each other, state sponsorship of terrorism, poor security measures by authorities, and rapid international transportation.

**Epistemic imperfection doesn’t mean aff is entirely wrong – we should still act with partial knowledge.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cowen 4</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tyler, Professor of Economics – George Mason University, “The Epistemic Problem Does Not Refute Consequentialism”, 11-2, http://www.gmu.edu/jbc/Tyler/Epistemic2.pdf, p. 14-15)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The epistemic critique relies heavily on a complete lack of information about initial circumstances ………………………only when we have absolutely no idea about the future; this is a special rather than a general case. Simply boosting the degree of background generic uncertainty should not stop us from pursuing large upfront benefits of obvious importance.</span>

**The alternative’s focus on individual resistance denies the accountability necessary to actuate collective global change – leaves power in the hands of the elites**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chandler 4</span>**, David, Centre for the Study of Democracy, University of Westminster, Building Global Civil Society `From Below'?, Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2004; 33; 313
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The celebration of global civil society ‘from the bottom up’ would appear to be based less on any emergence of new political forces at the global level than the desire of ………………………the anti-politics of rejectionism—the powers that be can sleep peacefully in their beds.</span>

**Refusal to engage the with existing power structures dooms the alternative**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**McCormack 10** – PhD in IR, </span>Tara McCormack, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, pg. 137-138
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In chapter 7 I engaged with the human security framework and some of the problematic implications of ‘emancipatory’ security policy frameworks. In this chapter I argued that the shift away from the pluralist security framework and the elevation of cosmopolitan and emancipatory goals has served to enforce international power inequalities rather than lessen them…For critical and emancipatory theorists the central place of the values of the theorist mean that it cannot fulfil its promise to critically engage with contemporary power relations and emancipatory possibilities. Values must be joined with engagement with the material circumstances of the time</span>

**Their link evidence misrepresents power structures – the Cold War frameworks have disappeared**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**McCormack 10** – PhD in IR, </span>Tara McCormack, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, pg. 39-40
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Critical theorist Andrew Linklater elaborates the problem with sovereignty: The nature of the social bond which has bound the members of each modern European state together and separated them from the other states…becomes little more than a statement of the moral values of the theorist. In chapter 3 I explore a differ- ent aspect of this theoretical problem.</span>

**State-centrism is the only way to produce humyn security and limit everyday injustice – material change should be preferred**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**McCormack 10** – PhD in IR, </span>Tara McCormack, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, pg. 140-142
Critical and emancipatory theorists fail to understand that there must be a political content to emancipation and new forms of social organisation. Critical theorists seek emancipation and argue for new forms of political community above and…approaches reproduce and authorise the constitutive particular practices of contemporary powers.

=Negative= 

==Kritiks== 

===Buddhism K=== 

**The aff’s embodies the Black Panthers – their black and white dualisms fuel racial violence around the world. Violence is psychological and begins in the mind – we should foster an understanding of race that gives up the egoism rampant in the 1AC – Buddhism’s understanding is the only way to promote racial prosperity.**
**Malkin and Johnson 4** [John, social activist, Charles writer of non-fiction books like Being and Race: Black Writing Since 1970."Buddhism is the Most Radical and Civilized Choice", http://www.shambhalasun.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=1528]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have to understand that </span>__violence is not just physical__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,…I think it is very important for people to look at that.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Causality K</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The myth of progress will be revealed and all vain attempts to deny its demise will be in vain. Since the age of the Greeks, the concept of “progress” has been based on Euclidean assumptions of perfection and causality, which are hopeless.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goodshare 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The myth of progress is about to take its final plunge...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> deck chairs on the Titanic.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space and Time do not exist independently - non-Euclidean understandings of existence demonstrate that we go around “solving problems”, which are displaced from one subsystem to another.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goodshare 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What we are currently experiencing… subsection or another decklevel.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative trusts rationality beyond our sensory experiences - this denies that all reality is subject to the yin and yang principle: what can ultimately lead to a spring of hope is just as likely to usher in a winter of despair.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goodshare 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But another western cultural heritage … a reality in which space leaks.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative’s efforts to extend life are nothing more than a fear of life itself - it’s no different than exercising or buying a car with airbags - this fear of mortality ends up manifesting itself in environmentalism via the depressing and burdensome drive to preserve the earth as a home for Homo sapiens - this powerful pseudo-purpose ends up eclipsing our natural purpose of living in harmony with nature.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goodshare 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*we disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The conflict between western ... to waste in the process.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vote negative to reclaim the joys of living – the Titanic death spiral of the Western Euclidean paradigm can only be subsumed by ontogenesis, which is the tuning in to our “natural place” in the family of things</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goodshare 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In our western euclidian paradigm… enveloping nature which IS us.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Death Drive K</span>=== 

**The fantasy that we are the omniscient Masters that can conquer and defeat the violence that permeates our internal order plagues the international system. The ideology and desire of late capitalism and modernity structure this fantasy to overcome and conquer the psychic death drive. This fantasmic desire to overcome the drive produces an endless cycle of error replication because we repeatedly mistarget the sources of conflict and violence. This cycle is an inevitable march toward ultimate destruction.**

**Paradoxically, the drive structures the logic of the international system, yet also poses as the radical possibility to move beyond it. Acknowledging that death is not the mark of humyn finitude allows us to take pleasure in the pain of continually missing our goal. This confrontation with the death drive allows for a radical break beyond this cycle of violence and corruption.**
**Zizek 99** [Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 293- 29, 1999]
The lesson of drive is that we are condemned to… painful experience of repeatedly missing one’s goal. 65

**To confront the internal order constituted by the death drive, we must accept the apolitical and destructive logic of the status quo. Any partial embracing of the death drive is underwritten by the desire to avoid authentically confronting it and to violently maintain the ideological fantasies of Truth and Goodness.**
**Zizek 99** [Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 160- 61, 1999]
In Lacanese,the subject prior to subjectivization… rule of the Truth and/or Goodness.

**Recognition of the death drive abolishes the source of totalitarian temptations – our attempt to articulate a new way of living is the only hope to break away from our violent international order.**
**Zizek 99** [Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 390-91, 1999]
On the other hand, against this stupid superego…freedom' into the totalitarian haven of closed order is profoundly misleading.

===Desire K=== 

**Desire creates the illusion of the self and the suffering that defines the humyn condition. Our only capacity is thus to affirm the extermination of this desire in the face of perpetual death and an impermanent reality**
**Dollimore** **98** (Jonathan, Death, Desire and Loss in Western Culture, pgs. 54-56, 1998)
//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Siddhartha Gautama (560-477 BC) was a prince who, because of his high privilege…</span> __utter cessation of desire or craving; it means extinction.__

**Use the ballot to engage in meditative affirmation of the status quo.**
**Astma 6** (Stephen, Professor of Philosophy at Columbia College, “Against Transcendentalism: Monty Python’s The Meaning of Life and Buddhism”, //Monty Python and Philosophy// ebook copy, dml)
//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
__Upon close inspection, Buddha shows, paradise crumbles…__ __if we are less distracted and more mindful.__

==="Fuck" K=== 

**The use of the word “fuck” perpetuates a notion of violence that should be considered before anything else**
**Campbell**, family court philosopher, **7** (Glenn, “A Linguistic Analysis of "Fuck"”, http://www.familycourtchronicles.com/philosophy/fuck/)
As a general rule, people who use "fuck…and physical aggression could be next.

**Discourse frames thought - systems of domination become dominant by gradually acquiring greater acceptance in the minds of people such that these ways of thinking become normal. Thus systems of discourse decide upon what can and cannot be said socially.**
**Bleiker 3** [Roland, Co-Director of the University of Queensland’s Rotary Centre for International Studies in Peace and Conflict Resolution. Contemporary Political Theory, Volume 2, Number 1, March 2003, pp. 25-47]
'It is within discourse,' one of Foucault's much…around discursive explanations of social dynamics.

===Gregorian Calendar K=== 

**The Affirmative makes two initial mistakes in relation to temporality: They have chosen to situate their evidence within the Gregorian calendar; thereby misidentifying the root cause of their harms as something other than a fundamental alienation of ourselves from the natural order, which has its origin in dualistic thinking derived from the artificial compartmentalization of time. Vote Negative to reject the affirmatives endorsement of the Gregorian calendar in favor of the 13 Moon Peace Calendar.**
**Campaign for New Time No Date** (Subjective- Objective View: The Nature of Time, Vertical Time Horizontal Space, http://www.tortuga.com/foundation/campaign/docs/book/g4.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By examining the thirteenth baktun cycle, AD 1618-2012,…</span>__A new heroic age will dawn.__

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Grief K</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In an era filled with the greatest amount of violence in history, we are constantly confronted with loss and vulnerability, but who can we grieve for? What constitutes a “grievable life?” These questions appeal to something beyond technical policymaking – they speak to life itself. Every moment we are vulnerable - exposed to the other. This vulnerability causes every one of us to come undone by the touch, feel, and memory of others. But it is through this touch that we can experience empathy as a common basis to build new communities.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Butler 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Judith, AND THE DREAM OF HORSES, RHETORIC AT UC-BERKELEY, PRECARIOUS LIFE: THE POWERS OF MOURNING AND VIOLENCE, pgs. 19-25, 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">VIOLENCE, MOURNING, POLITICSI propose to consider a...by our relations but also dispossessed by them as well.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s scenes of war and violence induce panic and fear, reminding us of the omnipresent threat of bodily harm; however, the first step of grieving is the acknowledgement of this vulnerability and then make ourselves vulnerable to others. The 1AC’s attempt to avoid, suppress, and overcome conflict represents an impulse of mastery that forecloses access to others. Tactics of self-defense exacerbate the will to violence, expunging the life of others and turning good intentions into cycles of infinite war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Butler 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Judith, AND THE DREAM OF HORSES, RHETORIC AT UC-BERKELEY, PRECARIOUS LIFE: THE POWERS OF MOURNING AND VIOLENCE, pgs. 26-31, 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But is there another normative aspiration...(and perhaps only) to fathom its possibility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This drive to rationally suppress violence through order and reason has brought us to the edge of extinction through militaristic, ecological, and political means</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon and Campbell 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (MICHAEL, LANCASTER AND DAVID, NEWCASTLE, THE POLITICAL SUBJECT OF VIOLENCE, pgs. 163-164)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violence and reasonThis...home in any other house'.10</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is not inaction or apathetic politics - our criticism of the ethics of control is about advocating an ethics of universal vulnerability. By insisting on our universal and constant exposure to death and violence, we can re-configure the subject by foregrounding our commonality with others. Therefore, by not prioritizing the protection of our vulnerability above others, we can end the circle of violence outlined by the affirmative.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Butler 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Judith, AND THE DREAM OF HORSES, RHETORIC AT UC-BERKELEY, PRECARIOUS LIFE: THE POWERS OF MOURNING AND VIOLENCE, pgs. 42-47, 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Negotiating a sudden and unprecedented...of power and the persistence of vulnerability.</span>

===Nuclear Weapons K=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The 1AC’s anxiety about the destructive power of nuclear weapons sanitizes and justifies the perpetuation of everyday violence against the sacrificial periphery. The micropolitics within this very debate round serve as a necessary condition for macropolitical action. Our alternative is to accept the our nuclear reality. Instead of using our anxiety about the future as an escape from current violence, we should learn to be at peace with destruction as a natural process - only then can we achieve global peace. Finally, our framework for the debate is to re-orient our selves towards anger through acceptance and wisdom of the world. This re-orientation is a prerequisite to the affirmative’s impact claims and understanding the value of life, which prevents all macropolitical violence.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ikeda 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Daisaku, president of Soka Gokkai International, “Restoring the Human Connection: The First Step to Global Peace,” 2007, http://www.sgi-uk.org/resources/PeaceProposal2007.pdf]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In this form, the world of anger is a condition of...such demonic progeny as nuclear weapons</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taoism K - Short</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Death and misfortune are inevitable – the joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – their plan only brings about more suffering</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Slabbert 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dealing with loss Express yourself...the more damage we will do.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, we must forego all action to achieve desired ends.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kirkland 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “The Book of the Way,” 24-29, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Teachings of the Daode jing The...can thwart its unceasing operation.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taoism K - Long</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Death and misfortune are inevitable – the joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – their plan only brings about more suffering</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Slabbert 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dealing with loss Express yourself...the more damage we will do.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The 1AC’s rationalist attempt to anticipate the effects of policy will fail. Emptying oneself of being is a prerequisite to true understanding.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pettman</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, 200**5** (Ralph, “Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72-75)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">How does moving onto Taoist ground...understand global security.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Why It Is Wrong to Resent Unexpected...course of simply accepting the new state of things.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, we must forego all action to achieve desired ends.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kirkland 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “The Book of the Way,” 24-29, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Teachings of the Daode jing The...can thwart its unceasing operation.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Politics Disads</span>== 

===Debt Ceiling DA=== 

**A. Debt ceiling compromise likely now, but uniqueness doesn’t overwhelm the link - the impact is global economic collapse**
**Washington Post 1-2** [Ezra Klein, politics writer for the Washington Post, “The lessons of the fiscal cliff,” 1-2-2013,[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/02/the-lessons-of-the-fiscal-cliff/?wprss=rss_ezra-klein]]]
There is a narrative in American politics that goes… the debt ceiling, unleashing economic havoc.

**B. 1. New transportation funding is politically unpopular making it nearly impossible**
**Puentes 10** [Robert, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two‐Year Transportation Law,” 2010,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf]]]
Yet the nation’s surface transportation law… primary source of revenue for the program. 2

**2.That kills debt ceiling negotiations - Obama’s focusing capital on debt talks**
**Washington Post 12-11** [Chris Cillizza and Aaron Blake, “What Susan Rice can tell us about Obama’s second term,” 12/11/12, [[[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2012/12/11/what-susan-rice-can-tell-us-about-obamas-second-term/]]]President Obama continues to mull whether to nominate…Cabinet nominee — even one as prominent as Secretary of State.

**C. Extinction**
**Kemp 10** [Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4, 2010]
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos,… two-thirds of the planet’s population.=

===Farm Bill DA=== 

====Generic 1NC Links==== 

**Transportation spending is unpopular in Congress.**
**Freemark 12** (Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]])
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements...perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**New transportation funding is politically unpopular making it nearly impossible**
**Puentes 10** [Robert, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two‐Year Transportation Law,” 2010,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf]]]
Yet the nation’s surface transportation law… primary source of revenue for the program.

====Impact Scenarios==== 

=====Food Aid===== 

**1. The Farm Bill is key to U.S. food aid – solves malnutrition and famine**
**The Hill 12** [“Congress should strengthen US role as world leader in providing food aid to famine victims,” 3-7-12, [[http://thehill.com/special-reports-archive/1275-agriculture-march-2012-/214829-congress-should-strengthen-us-role-as-world-leader-in-providing-food-aid-to-famine-victims]]]
Last month, news reports indicated that... the next famine is declared.

**2. Providing food to those who need it is a moral responsibility – we are obligated to ensure access to food even in the face of extinction**
**Watson 77** (Richard, Professor of Philosophy at Washington University, World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p. 118-119)
These arguments are morally spurious... as a result of individual behavior.

===Immigration Reform DA=== 

====Shell==== 

**A. Comprehensive immigration reform will pass - but uniqueness doesn’t overwhelm the link**
//-still small issues that republicans demand that the bill does not yet include//
**The Hill 1/30**/13 (Jonathan Easley [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/280249-obama-expects-immigration-reform-bill-as-early-as-june]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Obama said</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wednesday</span> __he…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">privilege of being a U.S. citizen.</span>

**B. 1. New transportation funding is massively unpopular**
**Puentes 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Robert, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Arabic'; font-size: 10pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Year Transportation Law,” 2010, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet the </span>__nation’s surface transportation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__the primary source of revenue for the program.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2</span>

**2. Obama’s PC’s key to ensure success**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ABC News 1-2</span> [“Analysis: 6 Things Obama Needs To Do for Immigration Reform,” 1-2-2013, http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/things-president-obama-immigration-reform/story?id=18103115]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Sunday, President Barack </span>Obama<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">this weekend is a step in that direction, but he needs to follow through.</span>

**C. Impact - [//insert module//]**

====**Impact Modules**==== 

=====**Aging Crisis**===== 

**1. Reform solves an aging crisis – the impact is collapse of the U.S.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weissmann 12</span>** (Jordan Weissmann is an associate editor at The Atlantic. He has written for a number of publications, including The Washington Post and The National Law Journal. “Here's an Idea That Could Save America's Economy: More Americans” http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/11/heres-an-idea-that-could-save-americas-economy-more-americans/265776/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Congress crawls its way towards what might well be a historic debate on … </span>//it will mean//more//economic// //growth//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**2. The aging crisis outweighs – controls the probability of all their impacts**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peterson 99 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Blackstone Group Chairman, Institute for International Economics Chairman, NY Federal Reserve Deputy Chairman, Concord Coalition President, Co-Founder, CFR Chairman, February 1999, Peter, "Gray Dawn: The Global Aging Crisis," Foreign Affairs, Lexis)</span>
THE LIST of major global hazards<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ….strategies and the </span>geopolitical order<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

=====**Food Security**===== 

**1. Comprehensive reform is key to prevent food insecurity**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gaskill ’10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ron Gaskill is director of congressional relations for the American Farm Bureau Federation. Worker shortage urges immigration reform efforts April 9, 2010 Season Right for Meaningful Immigration Reform By Ron Gaskill</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even in these times of higher-than-usual unemployment,…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">healthy </span>food<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as well as renewable fuels and fiber for our nation. </span>

**2. Food shortages cause global nuclear war – most probable**
**F<span style="font-size: 8pt;">uture </span>D<span style="font-size: 8pt;">irections </span>I<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nternational </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“International Conflict Triggers and Potential Conflict Points Resulting from Food and Water Insecurity Global Food and Water Crises Research Programme”, May 25, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.futuredirections.org.au/files/Workshop_Report_-_Intl_Conflict_Triggers_-_May_25.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a growing appreciation that the </span>__conflicts__ __… as a potential trigger for conflicts and possibly even__ __nuclear war____.__

=====**Latin American Relations**===== 

**1. CIR solves Latin American relations and prevents massive instability**
**Gittelson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert, Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics, & Public Policy, “The Centrists Against the Ideologues: What Are the Falsehoods That Divide Americans on the Issue of Comprehensive Immigration Reform?,” 2009, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1400764]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, the above list of security enhancements is only a part of the overall …</span>//cooperation can we expect//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> in our battle to secure our southern border</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>

**2. The impact is global great power wars**
**Rochin 94** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Rochin, Professor of Political Science, ‘94 James, Professor of Political Science at Okanagan University College, Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America, pp. 130-131]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While there were economic motivations for Canadian policy in … resolution, such as Contadora, as will be discussed in the next chapter</span>
==Elections DA== 

===Generic 1NC Links=== 

**1. Funding transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they fear wasteful planning and don’t see the upside.**
**Orski 12** Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]]</span>
Finding the resources to keep transportation ... happily, are few and far between.

**2. Even tiny shifts matter – our link is low threshold and linear**
**Silver 12** (Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center.http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/)
The last thing to remember is....re-election odds at the margin.

===Generic 1NC Links - New Tiny Shifts Matter=== 

**Even tiny shifts matter - now is key – small shifts have big impacts**
**Silver 10-20** [Nate, “Oct. 20:Calm Day in Forecast, but Volatility Ahead,” 10-20-2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/20/oct-20-calm-day-in-forecast-but-volatility-ahead/]]</span>]
What makes this challenging is that although something like...likely to be volatile from here on out.

===Impact Scenarios=== 

====Climate Deal==== 

**1. Obama reelection is critical to a global climate deal**
**Geman****12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ben, Report says global climate deal hinges on Obama reelection, The Hill, 1/5/2012, http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/202539-report-global-climate-deal-hinges-on-obama-reelection-)</span>
Prospects for striking a binding //global climate deal//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>global agreement<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by 2015 almost impossible.</span>

**2. Climate leadership is critical to combat warming – prevents extinction – climate change is an existential risk.**
**Moon****9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ban Ki – secretary general of the United Nations, We Can Do It, New York Times, 10/25/2009, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/26/opinion/26iht-edban.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Every day, the critical December summit in Copenhagen grows closer…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">India and China are implanting programs to curb emissions as well</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====CTBT==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Obama’s reelection is key to CTBT ratification</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schneidmiller 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Chris, editor of Global Security Newswire, Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty, Nuclear Threat Initiative, 7/18/2011, http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/senate-decision-key-to-future-of-test-ban-treaty/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Obama administration is preparing for a...remain frozen in place in Washington.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Ratification of the CTBT prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Davis 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ian, co-executive director of the American Security Information Council, Getting the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Back on Track, Huffington Post, , 4/11/2007, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dame-anita-roddick-and-dr-ian-davis/getting-the-nuclear-test-_b_45625.html+CTBT+obama+priority&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=10&gl=us)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States is key to progress...secure ratification by other key states.</span>

====Gag Rule==== 

**1. Romney will reverse Obama’s gag rule decision**
**Desert News 12** [“Families Around the World: Romney commits to defund United Nations Population Fund, Planned Parenthood,” 2-10-2012, http://www.deseretnews.com/article/705399188/Romney-commits-to-defund-United-Nations-Population-Fund-Planned-Parenthood.html?pg=1]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a speech before CPAC Friday, Mitt </span>__Romney announced steps… first week in office, rescinded it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> yet again.</span>

**2. Gag rule causes global overpopulation**
**San Gabriel Valley Tribune 5** ("Earth staggering under expanding population" July 11, 2005, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our past efforts have proven very successful: </span>__Because of years… contraceptive supplies have dried up in Ethiopia.__

**3. Extinction**
**Otten 1** [Edward, Professor of Emergency Medicine and Pediatrics at the University of Cincinnati, 2000-2001,
[[http://www.ecology.org/biod/population/human_pop1.html]]]
//**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
The exponential growth of the<span class="underline">…</span> and<span class="underline"> outright </span>habit destruction.

====Offshore Drilling==== 

**1. Romney leads to additional oil exploration and offshore drilling**
**CNN 12** [“CNN Fact Check: Obama and Romney's energy policies,” August 30, 2012, http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/27/politics/fact-check-energy/index.html]
In a new policy paper, his Republican rival for the White House, Mitt…to the Republican refrain: "Drill, baby, drill."

**2. Offshore drilling destroys marine biodiversity, increases oils spills, and causes air pollution**
**Culture Change 10** [“No Offshore Oil Drilling: Committee Against Oil Exploration (CAOE),” April 3, 2010, http://www.culturechange.org/cms/content/view/637/66/]
A steady stream of pollution from offshore rigs causes…as much as 7,000 cars driving 50 miles a day.

**3. Cross-applied the aff’s impact this round**

====Russia Relations==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Obama reelection maintains the US-Russian reset - Romney will collapse relations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weir 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, 3/27/2012, http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian experts say there's little...reset will continue it seems likely the reset will continue."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. US-Russia relations are vital to preventing nuclear war and every global issue</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Allison and Blackwill 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That central point is that Russia matters a... in advancing our national interests.</span>

====Stem Cell Research==== 

**1. A Romney victory would end stem cell research**
**Nature 10-24** [International Weekly Journal of Science, “High stakes for US science,” 24 October 2012, http://www.nature.com/news/high-stakes-for-us-science-1.11628]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Supporters of research that uses...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">government funding of research on human ES cells.</span>

**2. Stem cell solves disease**
**Colman 8** (Alan, Ph.d., Stem Cell Disease Models,” [[http://www.imb.a-star.edu.sg/Default.aspx?tabid=168]])
//*We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Stem cells</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">are a focus of interest because of their...Neuregulin-1 and Disrupted-In-schizophrenia 1).</span>

**3. Extinction**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Keating 9** [Joshua, Foreign Policy web editor, “The End of the World”, 11-13-2009, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/11/13/the_end_of_the_world?page=full]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">How it could happen: Throughout history,...civilization-ending impact.</span>
====Torture==== 

**1. Romney win ensures a new policy of illegal and abusive torture methods against terrorists**
**Savage 9/27/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12 (Savage, Charlie- writer for New York Times. He received a Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting in 2007 for his coverage of presidential signing statements for the Globe. http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/28/us/politics/election-will-decide-future-of-interrogation-methods-for-terrorism-suspects.html?_r=0) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__Neither__ <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://elections.nytimes.com/2012/candidates/barack-obama?inline=nyt-per|Barack Obama]]</span> __nor__ <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://elections.nytimes.com/2012/primaries/candidates/mitt-romney?inline=nyt-per|Mitt Romney]]</span>__…__ __condemn the actions taken by__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span>__Obama__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to do so.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**2. Torture destroys one’s value to life – outweighs any possibility of saving //some// humyn lives – multiple reasons**
**Saul 5** (Dr. Ben Saul- Faculty of Law- Lecturer at The University of Southern Wales 6/24/05 http://www.gtcentre.unsw.edu.au/sites/gtcentre.unsw.edu.au/files/mdocs/amnestySpeech.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether one tortures to save one life or a thousand lives</span>,… **__and corrupts the institutions__** __of our democracy.__

====Yucca==== 

**1. Romney will reinstate Yucca**
**Wang 12** [Catherine, Democrats.org, 2-2-2012, http://www.democrats.org/news/blog/mitt_romney_is_wrong_for_nevada]
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,…Yucca Mountain, was canceled by President Obama.

**2. Extinction**
**Comarow** 1 (David, faculty member, science department of the community college of Southern Nevada and a member of the Union of Concerned Scientists. "Yucca Mountain: Time to Think the Unthinkable Testimony presented at US Department of Energy Public Hearing." Dec. 8., 2001, http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-energy/issues/yucca-mountain/yucca-mountain-testimony-comarow_2001-12-08.htm)
**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language
None of that is impossible, and therefore…like biosphereicide, the agonizing death of billions.

===Romney Bad - Generics=== 

====Double Dip Recession==== 

**Romney causes double dip recession - rich tax cuts and spending cuts**
**Huffington Post 10-24** [“Paul Krugman: Romney Victory Could Mean 'Double-Dip Recession',” 10-24-2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/24/paul-krugman-mitt-romney-recession_n_2008847.html]
If Mitt Romney is elected president,…even know how to pick the right people," Krugman added.

====Economy==== 

**Romney win collapses the economy**
**Krugman 12** <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">[Tierney Seed Interviewing, “Mitt Romney Doesn't Mean Anything He's Saying,” 5/31/12, http://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2012/05/31/paul-krugman-mitt-romney-doesnt-mean-anything-hes-saying-?page=2]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">First of all, the question is: What does Romney actually...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">down the road to a European-type slump</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Econ/Jobs==== 

**Romney’s austerity campaign destroys job creation and slows the economy**
**Boushey and Ayres 12** (Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress Action Fund and Sarah Ayres is a Research Assistant on the Economic Policy team at CAP Action, 7/2/12, Center for American Progress Action Fund, “Economists Agree Romney’s Plan Would Spark a New Recession,” http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2012/07/omney_economic_plan.html/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The private sector of the U.S. economy has added...support economic growth in order to fund tax cuts for the rich.</span>

====HSR Funding==== 

**Romney will end all federal funding for HSR**
**Futhey 8-28** [Mike, International President, United Transportation Union, “Romney will deliver on his promises,” 8-28-2012, http://utu.org/2012/08/28/romney-will-deliver-on-his-promises/]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When it comes to Mitt </span>__Romney__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we don’t have...</span>__would shut down most intercity rail passenger service.__

====Nuclear War==== 

**Romney’s reaction to unpredictable crises makes nuclear war inevitable**
**Stein 10-19** [Robert, former chairman of the American Society of Magazine Editors, predicted the run to the Iraq War in the New York Times, veteran of World War II, [[http://ajliebling.blogspot.com/2012/10/doubts-about-romneys-nuclear-trigger.html]]]
**We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language
Doubts About Romney's...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">I'm interested in solving the problem."</span>

====<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear Terrorism</span>==== 

**Romney will cut NNSA funding - causes nuclear terrorist attacks**
**Easley 11** Jason is a political columnist and chief editor of Politicusa.com. Citing Rachel Maddow. “Rachel Maddow Calls Out The GOP For Budget Cuts That Enable al-Qaeda,” 3/25, http://www.politicususa.com/rachel-maddow-gop-al-qaeda.html
On her MSNBC program, Rachel Maddow took…realization of al-Qaeda’s nuclear ambitions and dreams.

==CPs== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Arctic Offshore Drilling CP</span>=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce restrictions on crude oil extraction from the Alaskan Outer Continental Shelf.**

**CP generates massive economic benefits - job growth, deficit reduction, and creates a ripple effect in the short-term**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">[Mark, member of the advisory council of the McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science at Northwestern University and serves on the board of directors of the Marshall Institute, 7/9, “Could the United States Become the World’s Energy-Export Powerhouse?”, [[http://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/press_release_pgi_01.pdf]]]</span>

**Unleashing 20 billion barrels… a beneficial resetting of energy geopolitics.**

**Offshore drilling is necessary to reduce our oil dependence and curb China**
**DiMicco and Pickens 10** (Dan DiMicco is chairman and chief executive officer of Nucor Corp. T. Boone Pickens is chief executive officer of BP Capital. 7/21/10, “No need to end offshore drilling” Politico, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0710/39977.html]])

**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico… driven by the 24-hour news cycle.</span>**

===Brazil CP=== 

**Counterplan Text: The Federative Republic of Brazil should fully fund the expansion of its space program, provide all necessary training to current and future engineers and technicians, and execute all necessary projects with foreign nations.**

**The Federative Republic of Brazil should substantially increases its investment in its launch sites.**

**The United States federal government should not increase its investment in its launch sites.**

**Brazil is on the brink of being an amazing space power and is capable of solving the aff’s harms**
**Messier 11** (Douglas Messier is managing editor of Parabolicarc.com, a blog that covers commercial space and much more. He lives and works in Silicon Valley, where he is director of communications for a start-up software company. The views expressed here are his own. You can follow Doug on Twitter at @spacecom. “Will a new space power rise along the Atlantic?” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1904/1, Donnie)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Within a decade, a new spaceport could rise...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Two of VLS-1’s stages will be replaced with liquid-fueled ones. </span>

**Space power is key to getting a seat at the United Nations Security Council**
**Harding 11** (Robert C. Harding Director of International Studies and Assistant Professor of Political Science at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Alabama, USA and the author of the forthcoming book Space Policy in Developing Countries: The Search of Security and Development on the Final Frontier (University Press of Florida) “Marte Levantando-se? The Growth of Brazil’s Space Program as a Pillar of National Security” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-c/2011/2011-2/2011_2_11_harding-E.pdf, Donnie)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">present and future benefits of the Brazil...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">for inclusion as a permanent member of the UNSC</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**That solves Middle East war**
**Amorim 11** (Celso Amorim served as foreign minister of Brazil from 2003 to 2011. “Let Us In” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/03/14/let_us_in?page=0,1, Donnie)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">When</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. President Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Obama arrives in...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">more choices and options we will have. </span>__

**Goes global and nuclear**
**Primakov 9** (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Russian Federation, Member – Russian Academy of Science, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, Russia in Global Affairs, 3, July/September, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/number/n_13593)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Middle East conflict is unparalleled...</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama’s position does not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

===Building Codes CP=== 

**Counterplan Text: The state governments should implement and enforce energy efficiency building codes modeled on California’s building codes.**

**Efficient building codes solve better – gains in transportation efficiency are inevitable**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rigdon 8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Joan Indiana, Grad of UC Berkeley journalism school, former writer for Wall Street Journal, “Oil: The Never-Ending Crisis,” Washington Lawyer,Nov. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 10pt;">2008,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.dcbar.org/for_lawyers/resources/publications/washington_lawyer/november_2008/oil_crisis.cfm]</span>
//**Note: “David Bookbinder, chief climate counsel for the Sierra Club, the nation’s leader in grassroots environmental litigation.”//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unsexy Building Codes </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Much of the public debate about…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Tom, Dick, and Harry running out to put a windmill on their roof,” he says.</span>

===Credit Card CP=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C**ounterplan Text: The United States Federal Reserve should create a ‘federal credit card’ and send one to every adult in the nation enabling each person to borrow $2000 at a very low interest rate and not pay back any of it until after the economy fully recovers.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solves the economy – becomes a fast-acting channel for economic stimulus</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AEI Ideas 7-29</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“Should the Bernanke Fed give every American a $2,000 credit card?,” July 29,2012, http://www.aei-ideas.org/2012/07/should-the-bernanke-fed-give-every-american-a-2000-credit-card/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Miles Kimball, an imaginative economics professor ...more likely would be spent rather than saved.</span>

===Domestic PIC=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its space launch sites.**

**The affirmative frames its policy in terms of the ‘domestic’. This functions to construct the nation as a ‘home’ and a barrier between the external foreign threatening world of otherness which must be civilized and conquered.**
**Kaplan 98** [“Manifest Domesticity” American Literature, Vol 70 N 3, Sept 1998]
This deconstruction of separate spheres,...regulates traces of the savage within itself.'

===Multiplank CP=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Fund basic research on the mechanisms and processes by which chemicals produced in water may have impacts on the biological community;</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Establish a zero tolerance policy for oil spills;</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Establish clear responsibilities for government agencies that handle oil spills;</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Require that all offshore oil rigs carry independent trained observers to monitor activities in offshore exploration and production;</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Enter into hydrographic surveying scientific partnerships over the Arctic region with Russia and China.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prevents oil spills</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Montevecchi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Doctorate, University Research Professor, Memorial University of Newfoundland. Contributions from Sierra club. (Bill, 2011 PROVINCIAL ELECTION - NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS, August 29th, 2011, NLEN, http://www.nlen.ca/wp-content/uploadsEnvironmental-Policy-Recommendations-August-29-2011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Issue: Lack of oversight on the environmental impacts…by independent observers of all offshore platforms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, it solves the problems that cause oil spills</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carter and Fraser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - Political Science & Environmental Studies, Grenfell Campus, Memorial University and Faculty of Environmental  Studies, York University (AV, and GS, A Framework for Effective Environmental Regulation in Newfoundland and Labrador’s  Offshore Oil and Gas Sector: Applying Lessons from the Offshore Helicopter Safety Inquiry , January 20th, http://www.swgc.mun.ca/epi/Documents/Offshore%20Environmental%20Authority%20Recommendation.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In  October  2010,  an  independent  assessment...or  the  audits  it conducts  to  verify  compliance”  (Wells, pg 71).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No risk of an Arctic war now, but counterplan still solves relations best</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Titley and St. John 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">** – U.S. Navy Rear Admiral and Director of Climate Change Taskforce/Policy Fellow in Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy (David W. and Courtney C., “Arctic Security Considerations and the U.S. Navy’s Roadmap for the Arctic” <http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/e0734d9a-386e-4a2c-ba9d-86e7b290c57f/Arctic-Security-Considerations-and-the-U-S--navy-s>)AB</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Currently there are overlapping, unresolved… must be recognized and thoroughly assessed.</span>

===Multiplank CP Two=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase the number of personal serving in the United States Coast Guard. The United States federal government should establish a network of Marine Protected Areas in United States Exclusive Economic Zone and will provide all necessary funding and support for all enforcement programs. The United States federal government should enter into hydrographic surveying scientific partnerships over the Arctic region with Russia and China.**

**Protected marine areas restore ocean ecosystems and solve overfishing.**
**National Academy of Sciences 2K** [November 9, 2000 http://www8.nationalacademies.org/onpinews/newsitem.aspx?RecordID=9994]
A national system of protected marine areas is…parrotfish ate enough algae to prevent coral losses.

**Hydrographic surveying scientific partnerships solve boundary and security concerns over resources**
**Titley and St. John 10** – U.S. Navy Rear Admiral and Director of Climate Change Taskforce/Policy Fellow in Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy (David W. and Courtney C., “Arctic Security Considerations and the U.S. Navy’s Roadmap for the Arctic” < http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/e0734d9a-386e-4a2c-ba9d-86e7b290c57f/Arctic-Security-Considerations-and-the-U-S--navy-s>)//AB
Currently there are overlapping,…the Arctic must be recognized and thoroughly assessed.

===OCS CP=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce restrictions on offshore oil drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf.**

**Lifting restrictions solves the economy, job creation, and gas prices**
**Spakovsky and Loris 12** (Hans, Senior Legal Fellow / Manager, Civil Justice Reform Initiative, and Nicholas, Herbert and Joyce Morgan Fellow, “Offshore Drilling: Increase Access, Reduce the Risk, and Stop Hurting American Companies” The Heritage Foundation, 8/13/12, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/08/offshore-drilling-increase-access-reduce-the-risk-and-stop-hurting-american-companies)
No New Access in the New OCS Plan…the Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf of Mexico, and off Alaska’s coast.

**And, Offshore drilling is key to boost the global competitiveness of the manufacturing sector**
**Ostermayer 11** (Jeff, senior media strategist for the National Association of Manufacturers, 8/5/11, “Offshore Drilling Critical to Manufacturing Growth” Shopfloor, http://www.shopfloor.org/tag/ocs)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Deepwater drilling provides a significant economic</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">…__manufacturers’ global competiveness and job creation.__</span>

===Pictogram CP=== 

Counterplan Slideshow: [//insert pictures//]

**<span class="tagChar">Reliance upon the phonetic alphabet destabilizes the balance of humyn mental evolution, creating a destructive trend toward masculine values that subliminally reprograms the user.</span>**
**Shlain 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Leonard, a neurosurgeon at California-Pacific Medical Center and contributor to The Encyclopedia of Creativity, The Alphabet, Versus The Godess: The Conflict Between Word and Image, pgs. 66-67, 1998]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Aside from the obvious benefits that derived from their ease of use,…</span> __heel by the left barin within each individual.__

**<span class="tagChar">Left-brain rational functions denigrate natural relationships, risking planetary extinction, while allowing all forms of domination to exist. Only re-balancing our mental spheres can revitalize connections to the earth.</span>**
**Reuther 89**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Rosemary, Radford, Professor of Feminist Theology at Pacific School of Religion, “Toward an Ecological-Feminist Theology of Nature” in Healing the Wounds: the Promise of Ecofeminism, ed.. Judith Plant, pgs. 147-50, 1989]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus we have not so much the privilege of intelligence,…</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> in the creating of a livable and sustainable cosmos.</span>__

**<span class="tagChar">Imagining and privileging the counterplan through images cuts through left-brain dominance and enables a fully integrated psyche.</span>**
**Shlain 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Leonard, a neurosurgeon at California-Pacific Medical Center and contributor to The Encyclopedia of Creativity, The Alphabet, Versus The Godess: The Conflict Between Word and Image, pgs…</span> __words emerges in a one-at-a-time fashion.__

===Sea Basing CP=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.**

**Sea basing solves hegemony – allows for rapid forward deployment and global deterrence**
**Perry 9** [Michael, U.S. navy commander, “Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
Seabasing supports numerous aspects of…the National Security, Defense and Military Strategies of the United States.

==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2NRs</span>== 
===Niles West=== 
Round 1 vs. NIB
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Russia Relations

Round 3 vs. Alaskan Ports
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Russia Relations

Round 5 vs. Sea basing
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Russia Relations

===New Trier=== 
Round 2 vs. HSR
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Russia Relations/Overpopulation

Round 3 vs. Sea basing
2NR: Grief K

Round 6 vs. Port dredging
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Russia Relations

Doubles vs. Alaskan Ports
2NR: Grief K

===UMich=== 
Round 1 vs. Natives
2NR: Elections- Obama Good- Environment

Round 4 vs. NIB
2NR: Taoism K

Round 5 vs. NIB
2NR: Taoism K

===MBA=== 
Round 1 vs. Beiring Strait
2NR: Taoism K

Round 4 vs. Space Elevators
2NR: Pictograms CP

Round 6 vs. HSR
2NR: Taoism K

===Golden Desert=== 
Round 2 vs. Race
2NR: Cap K

Round 4 vs. Mexico
2NR: Politics- Immigration Reform- Food Security/Aging Crisis

Round 5 vs. ITS
2NR: Politics- Immigration Reform- Latin America Relations/Aging Crisis