== == 
[[toc|flat]]
=Meadows= 
==Round 2 vs. Hamilton CP (Icebreakers)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-In/T-Transportation Infrastructure
Cap (Rev)
TIGER CP
Elections
Case

===2NC-=== 
Cap
Case

===1NR-=== 
T

===2NR-=== 
T w/ Theory Answers

==Round 3 vs. Rowland Hall GB (CCS)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-Pipelines
T-Increase
Nietzsche
TIGER
Elections
Case

===2NC-=== 
Nietzsche
Case

===1NR-=== 
T-Increase
Elections

===2NR-=== 
Nietzsche

==Round 5 vs. Gulliver Prep (NextGen)== 
===1NC-=== 
Nietzsche
Case

===2NC-=== 
Nietzsche

===1NR-=== 
Case

===2NR-=== 
Nietzsche
Case

=Whitman= 
==Notes== 
I went to Whitman with Josh Marrott, but I was still the 2N
==Round 2 vs. Rowland Hall BP (CCS)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-Pipelines
Heidegger
TIGER CP
Elections
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Elections

===2NR-=== 
Elections
TIGER

==Round 4 vs. Eagle (Icebreakers)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-TI/In
Nietzsche
TIGER CP
Elections
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Elections

===2NR-=== 
Elections
Case

==Round 6 vs. Juan Diego MW (Defense Access Roads)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-Military
Cap (Rev)
TIGER CP
Elections
Food Prices DA
Case

===2NC-=== 
Cap
Case

===1NR-=== 
Finishing Case
Elections

===2NR-=== 
Elections
Case

=Silver and Black= 
==Round 2 vs. Hunter (TIGGER)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-TI
Cap (Reps)
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Politics
Case

==Round 4 vs. Notre Dame PV (NextGen Equipage Fund)== 
===1NC-=== 
T-Telecommunications
Cap (Reps)
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

1NR-
Case
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Inherency
TIGER
Politics

==Round 5 vs. Juan Diego CE (DAR)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Military
Cap (Reps)
Reform CP
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
Reform CP
Case

===1NR-=== 
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Reform CP
Politics

==Round 7 vs. Worland KK (Cargo Submarines)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Vehicles
Cap (Reps)
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
Cap
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
T (Changed plan-text = voting issue)
Politics

===2NR-=== 
T (Used as defense against advocating perms)
TIGER
Politics

=ASU= 
==Round 2 vs. San Dieguito DZ (ITS)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - TI
Luke
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Case
Politics

===2NR-=== 
TIGER
Politics

==Round 3 vs. Polytechnic HM (Tribal Infrastructure Bank)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - In
Nietzsche
PIC out of "Native American" and "Reservations"
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
Nietzsche
Case

===1NR-=== 
T
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Nietzsche

==Round 6 vs. PCDS (Sky Tower/Airport)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - TI
Nietzsche
Kappeler PIC
TIGER

Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
Case
Nietzsche
PIC

===1NR-=== 
T
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Nietzsche

==Octos vs. Leland AV (NIB)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Increase
Heidegger
Redirection CP
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
T
Redirection
Case

===1NR-=== 
Politics

===2NR-=== 
Redirection
Politics

==Quarters vs. Leland KL (NIB)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Increase
Heidegger
TIGER (Different CP Text for NIB)
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Politics

===2NR-=== 
TIGER
Politics

=Golden Desert= 
==Round 1 vs. Bellarmine (CCS)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Pipelines
Luke
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
T
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Politics

===2NR-=== 
TIGER
Politics

==Round 4 vs. Nevada Union GW (Ruralism)== 
===1NC-=== 
Framework
Cap
Coke K
Rural Areas CP
Case

===2NC-=== 
Coke
Cap
CP

===1NR-=== 
Fuck K
Case

===2NR-=== 
Fuck K
Cap
CP

==Round 6 vs. Highland AB (Poverty Mass Transit)== 
===1NC-=== 
T - Vehicles
Nietzsche
TIGER
Politics
Case

===2NC-=== 
T
Nietzsche
TIGER
Case

===1NR-=== 
Case (Framing)
Politics

===2NR-=== 
TIGER
Politics

=Berkeley= 
==Round 1 vs. College Prep PW (Genealogical Race)== 
===1NC-=== 
Nietzsche
Case

===2NC-=== 
Nietzsche

===1NR-=== 
Case

===2NR-=== 
Case
Nietzsche

==Round 4 vs. Glenbrook North CH (Port Dredging)== 
===1NC-=== 
Bataille
Case

===2NC-=== 
Bataille

===1NR-=== 
Case

===2NR-=== 
Case
Bataille

==Round 6 vs. Homewood Flossmoor (Aircraft Carriers)== 
===1NC-=== 
Bataille
Case

===2NC-=== 
Bataille

===1NR-=== 
Case

===2NR-=== 
Case
Bataille

=Utah 5A State= 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">I went to State with Josh Marrott. I was still the 2N.</span>

Went for Bataille and Case every round.