[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">NSD 2013: Plan Text- The USFG will pass the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, S.3414. Funding through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify</span>= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative:== 
===Coach Liu Special AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">West’s Encyclopedia of American Law<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>, person is charged when: </span>

West's Encyclopedia of American Law, 2nd edition. The Gale Group, Inc. 2008.


The generic name for the... occurs first



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I value justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the resolutional question is about what the proper initial distribution of rights ought to be, not when or how they should be applied.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A moral rather than political inquiry of punishment fails since it addresses only the punishment deserved by criminals and ignores the particular context involved when the state is doing the punishing. Brettschneider 1:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Rights of the Guilty: Punishment and Political Legitimacy Author(s): Corey Brettschneider. Reviewed work(s): Source: Political Theory, Vol. 35, No. 2 (Apr., 2007), pp. 175-199</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The previous section ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">deserve qua citizens."</span>__**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This ensures that all citizens</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> accept </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation. Rawls</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">I now turn to... </span>satisfy this principle.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Moral accounts of punishment, however, undermine citizens’ status as free and equal. Brettschneider 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Retributivists'</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">apolitical accounts... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">rights-bearing citizens.</span>__**


Inclusion of the points of view of all criminals is a requirement of political legitimacy. Brettschneider 3:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This theory, however, presents.... </span>acceptable to them.


reject contractarian negs claiming that non-citizens are in a state of war with the U.S. because the justification of punishment for those who violate the core values of society is incompatible with those very values. Brettschneider 4 elaborates:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is important... of actual individual</span>


It follows that defendants have an inviolable right to the presumption of innocence


2. All persons could rationally endorse a just legal system designed to protect the innocent. Rawls:
John Rawls [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 209-210.]


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, there are...and regularly maintained.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the standard is **upholding the presumption of innocence**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Arguments contingent on features of a given case – e.g. jury bias – do not link. Allan </span>

Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press. Accessed JSTOR. <http://www.jstor.org/stable/764676>.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The analogy between....</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">his dignity deserves.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Prefer this standard:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1. the criminal law must be concerned with provable “external actions” rather than inner moral qualities—a court system that presupposes the guilt of the defendant is wrong. Hill</span>


Thomas E. Hill Jr, __Dignity and Practical Reason in Kant’s Moral Thoery__. Cornell University Press, 1992. Quals: Professor at University of North Carolina. Article: “Making Exceptions Without Abaning the Principle; Or How a Kantian might think about terrorism”. P.209-210

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Unfortunately, human nature...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">dignity, among many.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2. The only possible rationale for violating the presumption of innocence would be that doing so would serve the “broader interests of the community.” These arguments are untenable. Tadros:</span>

Tadros, Victor. //Rethinking the presumption of innocence//. Crim Law and Philos (2007) 1:193–213. Accessed Springer.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Interference with the...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">right as inviolable.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">I </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">contend that only Article III federal courts uphold the presumption of innocence. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First—standards of evidence. Chaffee</span>

Devon Chaffee 2011 [Advocacy Counsel for Human Rights First's Law and Security Program “ARTICLE: Military Commissions Revived: Persisting Problems of Perception” University of New Hampshire Law Review. Vol. 9. March, 2011.]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">In the absence of any principled justification for pursuing mili- tary commissions in certain cases, it becomes difficult to argue that the commissions are anything other than a second-tier system...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">innocent until proven guilty</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second – burden of proof. Corbett</span>

Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">A highly valued...punishment possible: death.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Third – empirics. 90% of those detained on suspicion of terrorism are actually innocent but military commissions assumed guilt with indefinite detention. Frakt</span>

Lieutenant Colonel David Frakt 2011 [Associate Professor of Law at the Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law, Barry University, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Judge Advocate Gernal’s Corps Reserve. “MOHAMMED JAWAD AND THE MILITARYCOMMISSIONS OF GUANTÁNAMO” DUKE LAW JOURNAL. Vol. 60.]


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">After a year-long... </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">prove his innocence in court.</span>

===Federal Courts AC <span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">[[#September-October-Affirmative:-Federal Courts AC]]</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Text: USFG will extend due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism by transferring and trying them in civilian federal courts. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Framework</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My burden is to prove it would be more desirable for the U.S. to act on the resolutional maxim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nelson, Adam F. Towards A Comprehensive Theory of Lincoln-Douglas Debate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"And the truth-statement... as a whole."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I value morality. The standard is maximizing expected well-being.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no act-omission distinction for governments.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In our view...adequately discourage it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moral theorists agree that simplicity, consistency, and explanatory depth are epistemic virtues to which all moral thought aspires. Setiya:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kieran Setiya, “Does Moral Theory Corrupt Youth?” PHILOSOPHICAL TOPICS , VOL. 38, NO. 1, SPRING 2010. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"While there are... justifications are deep."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Consequentialism is simple, consistent, and broad. Setiya 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In what follows</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">given to accept."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inherency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Suspected terrorists are currently tried in a two tier approach. McLaughlin writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Seth McLaughlin is a contributing writer for The Washington Diplomat. Jury Out on Whether to Try Terrorists In Civilian Court or Military Tribunals</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Last Edited on April 24, 2012 [[http://washdiplomat.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=6050:-jury-out-on-whether-to-try-terrorists-in-civilian-court-or-military-tribunals&catid=204:march-2010&Itemid=240]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This dispute regained...a weak case"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Status quo policy authorizes the President to hold foreign nationals suspected of terrorism without trial. The National Defense Authorization Act states:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">H.R. 1540, 112 Cong. (2011) (enacted). Print. National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012’’. Sec 1021</span>
"<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Congress affirm</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">s that...purposes of subsection (b)(2).s."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Federal courts are more effective. HR First:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">HR First Human Rights First, American ideals, universal values: “Trying Terror Suspects in Federal Courts”http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/wp-content/uploads/pdf/USLS-Fact-Sheet-Courts.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Federal civilian criminal courts convicted... to do that kind of thing."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Federal penitentiaries are also more secure than military facilities. HR First 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Federal prisons hold...multiple attempted murders."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 1: International Law</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current counter terrorism policies violate international law. Jimmy Carter, June 24:Carter, Jimmy [39th President, Founder of the Carter Center and recipient of 2002 Nobel Peace Prize]. “A Cruel and Unusual Record. ”June 24, 2012.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/25/opinion/americas-shameful-human-rights-record.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "While the country has...and alienates our friends."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Effective international law solves every impact—US commitment uniquely key. IEER:Institute for Energy and Environmental Research and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy. Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties. May 2002. <[[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The evolution of...out of compliance."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The only alternative to international law is genocide and nuclear war. Shaw‘1:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Shaw, Martin [Professor of International Relations and Politics at the University of Sussex]. “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations.” October 3, 2001. <[[http://www.martinshaw.org/unfinished.pdf]]></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The new politics of...politics are intertwined."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 2: Soft Power</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Absent immediate reform, the U.S. risks irreversible damage to its image in the international arena. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">McCoy, Alfred W. [J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison]. Impunity at Home, Rendition Abroad: How Two Administrations and Both Parties Made Illegality the American Way of Life. August 14, 2012. The Huffington Post. <[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alfred-w-mccoy/extraordinary-rendition-torture_b_1775438.html]]> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"After a decade...deep and lasting."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Soft power is key to solving all impacts—world war, disease, climate change, and terrorism. Nye:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Joseph Nye, professor of international relations at Harvard University, 2008 or later (n.d.) (“American Power After the Financial Crises,”[[http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533|http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533)]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">"The problem for...help of others."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 3: Pakistan</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Drone strikes in Pakistan against terrorists undermine Pakistani stability Woods, 8/3:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chris Woods, “CIA drone strikes violate Pakistan's sovereignty, says senior diplomat Islamabad's high commissioner believes the US should hand over control of the attacks to his government," 2 August 2012. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/aug/03/cia-drone-strikes-violate-pakistan]]</span>
"<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">One of Islamabad's...against the people."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict. Pitt:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” [[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"It is believed...with unimaginable disaster."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 4: Yemen</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US drone strikes in Yemen are destabilizing the country and bolster AQAP. Fairbank, May 22nd:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Timothy Fairbank “Time to Rethink US Strategy in Yemen” [[http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2012/al-monitor/rethinking-us-strategy-in-yemen.html]] Tuesday, May 22, 2012.Timothy Fairbank is co-founder and managing director of Development Transformations, an organization specializing in stabilization and development in countries in transition.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Monday's suicide bombing..decade is required." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The US is on track to address the issue but strikes hold progress back. Ending targeted killings solve Yemeni collapse. Fairbank 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Indeed, the US is...brewing in Yemen." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Increased Yemeni instability increases piracy, causes oil shocks, destabilizes Saudi Arabi, and causes conflict with Iran. Torosyan:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Emil Torosyan ,“Energy Security in Yemen” August 2009. Defence R&D Canada – CORA. Contract Report DRDC CORA CR 2009-001 September 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Deteriorating security in...in the region." </span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 5: EU Relations</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Times;">Status quo counterterrorism policies are killing US EU relations. Archick ‘12</span>

Kristin Archick , “U.S.-EU Cooperation Against Terrorism”. Congressional Research Serivece, May 21, 2012. Quals: Specialist in European Affairs


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. and European...</span>to be released.


<span style="font-family: Times;">Good US EU </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Relations solve bioterror and cyberterror. Hamilton</span>

Daniel <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hamilton</span>, Director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations at Johns Hopkins University, June 11, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2003</span>, Future of Transatlantic Relations, FDCH Congressional Testimony, p. lexis


<span class="UnderlineChar5Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">It is unlikely that...</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">risk of attack</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>__



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cyberterror and Bioterro cause Extinction. Steinbruner</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">John D. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steinbruner, Brookings senior fellow</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and chair in international security, vice chair of the committee on international security and arms control of the National Academy of Sciences, Winter **19**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">97</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Foreign Policy, “Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses,” n109 p85(12), infotrac</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Although human pathogens...its outer limit.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 6: Russia</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pussy Riots signal Russia is on the brink of authoritarianism. Schwartz, August 18th</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Pussy Riot sentences just the latest crackdowns by Putin’s Kremlin Free expression seen under threat by Russia’s new authoritarianism” by Daniel Schwartz, August 18,2012. ([[http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/08/17/f-russia-pussy-riot.html]])</span>


[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/08/17/pussy-riot-verdict-moscow-russia.html|On Friday]]<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, after... </span>at the Olympics sites.



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Affirming solves the root cause of Russian authoritarianism. Mendelson</span>


“U.S. Russian Relations and the Democracy and Rule of Law Deficit” by Sarah E. Mendelson, A Century Foundation Report, 2009


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The ability of any... </span>the international system.



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Authoritarian Russia collapses US-Russian relations key to </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">stopping extinction. Allison and Blackwill</span>

Allison and Blackwill, 11 [Graham, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D., International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters,”http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">That central point... </span>our national interests

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 7: Terrorism</span>==== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The practice of detention without trial harms our ability to prevent attacks and motivates terrorists. Roth</span>
</span>

Kenneth Roth 2008, [American attorney and has been the executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993],“After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention”, //Foreign Affairs//, the Council on Foreign Relations, May/June 2008.


<span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Criminal prosecution of...</span>multiple attempted murders."




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The absence of due process rights radicalizes terrorists. Taxman</span></span>
Matthew C. Waxman 09, [Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009.


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Historically,</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> **__detention practices...__** </span>systems in battling insurgencies.



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Effective counterterrorism is crucial to national security- terrorists can easily and have the motivation to cause mass civilian deaths. Wilkinson and Hartwig</span>
</span>


Wilkinson and Hartwig 10, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010,



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Despite the differing... class-based politics</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 8: Executive Power</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ending targeted killing solves rampant abuse of executive power which becomes accepted as legitimate absent the plan. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heuvel 6/12</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/katrina-vanden-heuvel/2011/02/24/ABMj4XN_page.html|Katrina vanden Heuvel]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, “Obama’s ‘kill list’ is unchecked presidential power”. June 12, 2012, (http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-kill-list-is-unchecked-presidential-power/2012/06/11/gJQAHw05WV_print.html)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A stunning report... and American citizens</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span style="color: black;">Unchecked executive authority collapses effective foreign policy decision making, empirically undermining hegemony. Alder</span>

David G. **__Alder__,** Professor of Political Science @ Idaho State U, 20**__02__** (The Presidency and the Law: The Clinton Legacy edited by David G. Alder and Michael A. Genovese) p. 181-182


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A considerable literature...</span>of presidential unilateralism.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heg solves multiple scenarios for global nuclear war, Khalizad</span>

Zalmay <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Khalilzad. Washington Quarterly, Spring 1995</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Realistically and over...</span>would be harmed.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Underview</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, ethical agnosticism should lead us to default towards preventing extinction as a meta-constraint on all ethical theories. Bostrom:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nick Bostrom, 2001 prof of Philosophy, Oxford University [ Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest...lot of value."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Normative uncertainty demands that we take existential risks seriously even under non-consequentialist ethical frameworks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bostrom 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "There will be some...to decision making."</span>
==<span style="font-size: 1.3em;">[[#x-Negative]]</span>== 
==Negative== 
===FATA DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) Link</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: Affirming extends due process protections to non citizens accused of terrorism which ends targeted killing in Pakistan. CCR clarifies the nature of targeted killing:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CCR (Center for Constitutional Right) “Al-Aulaqi v. Obama: Government Kill Lists Target U.S. Citizens Far From Any Armed Conflict” http://ccrjustice.org/learn-more/faqs/kill-lists</span>
**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The government has </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">… </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">or months at a time</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) Internal Link:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Drone strikes are crucial to fighting terrorism in Northwest Pakistan, empirically confirmed. Johnston</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Patrick B. Johnston</span>⇤<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Anoop Sarbahi “The Impact of U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorism in Pakistan”, February 25, 2012. Quals: Associate Political Scientist, RAND Corporation. Email: [[mailto:patrickj@rand.org|patrickj@rand.org]], Post Doctral Scholar, Department of Political Science, Stanford University. Email: sarbahi@stanford.edu.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Column 1 of Table 7 shows … conducted is insignificant.15</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Byman identifies the causative warrant</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dr. Daniel Byman, “Denying Terrorist Safe Havens: Homeland Security Efforts to Counter Threats from Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia”. June 3, 2011 (Testimony before the Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations and Management of the House Committee on Homeland Security). Quals: Professor, Security Studies Program School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and Senior Fellow, Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> The Importance of … than to their enemies</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Affirming is an unprecedented shift in status quo policy that makes any counterterrorism efforts impossible. Targeted killing is the only game in town. Bergen and Tiedemann</span>
<span style="color: #c00006; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/author/peter-bergen|Peter Bergen]]</span><span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and </span><span style="color: #c00006; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/author/katherine-tiedemann|Katherine Tiedemann]]</span><span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**<span style="color: #141414;">“Washington's Phantom War-</span>**</span><span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Effects of the U.S. Drone Program in Pakistan”</span><span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span><span style="color: #5f6e7c; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/issues/2011/90/4|July/August 2011]]</span><span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">-(http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67939/peter-bergen-and-katherine-tiedemann/washingtons-phantom-war?page=show)</span>
<span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Despite the drone program's… the country's sovereignty.</span>
**<span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) Internal Link: </span>**<span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Terrorism in Pakistan destabilizes the country and pushes it to the brink of collapse. Arleigh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Anthony H. Cordesman Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy and Varun Vira**<span style="color: #202a32;">“</span>**PAKISTAN: VIOLENCE VS. STABILITY,A National Net Assessment”. Center for Strategic and International Studies, Burke Chair in Strategy. </span><span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(http://csis.org/files/publication/110607_Stabilizing_Pakistan.pdf)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Pakistani Taliban</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">… **__with each other__**.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Incursions by militants like the Taliban risk destabilizing Pakistan. With elections coming up a failed campaign in Waziristan this year could pose an existential risk to Pakistan. Markey</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Daniel Markey 9/3 [Senior Fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia at The Council on Foreign Relations Asia Program. “Eye of the Storm for US-Pakistan Relations” ISN. 9/3/2012. <span style="color: #0000ee;">[[http://isnblog.ethz.ch/international-relations/eye-of-the-storm-for-us-pakistan-relations]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The political contests… existence of the **__state itself.__**</span>


**<span style="color: #202a32; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Impact: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia—Pakistan is on the brink of chaos. Pitt</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is believed Pakistan **__…__** The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious</span>
===Intel DA=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A) UQ:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Intelligence currently leads to the interdiction of terrorist plots. Coburn<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> et al </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The principal scientific … **__and public vigilanc__**e (and a touch of good fortune).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B) Link: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The trial right for the defendant to hear evidence against them unique to civilian </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">courts leads to the release of important classified information. Coffey</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Kendall Coffey 2003. “The Case for Military Tribunals: Don’t Force Courts to Choose Between the Constitution and American Lives.” May 2003. </span><span style="color: #0000ee; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://kendallcoffey.com/pdfs/publications/Case_for_Military_Tribunals.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">District Court Judge … the war on terror.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Civilian courts blow secret operations and intelligence methods. Yooprovides additional warrants</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/search/term.html?KEYWORDS=JOHN+YOO&bylinesearch=true|JOHN **YOO**]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, “The KSM Trial Will Be an Intelligence Bonanza for al Qaeda,” November 16, 2009. ([[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB20001424052748704431804574537370665832850.html]].) Quals: Mr. Yoo is a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. He was an official in the Justice Department from 2001-03 and is a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">'This is a prosecutorial … we know nothing about.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">C) Internal Link</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Good intel is key to counterterrorism efforts – it reduces the risk by 90%. Coburn 2</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Where intelligence services … **__five in every six__**.4</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">D) Impact: </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Unchecked terrorism causes extinction. Morgan </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Morgan 09 - Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea (Dennis Ray Morgan, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Section , Moore points out… permission for anyone to use them. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Legal precedent affirms dismissal if national security is compromised which turns the aff and is a 100% solvency takeout. Terrorists don’t ever see their day in court and once the trial is dismissed they can’t be retried. Williams</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Williams, Gary: “Indefinite Detention and Extraordianry Rendition”. National Security and the Law, Special Issue. ([[http://www.lacba.org/Files/LAL/Vol29No6/2307.pdf]]), Los Angeles Lawyer p.44-47; September 2006. Quals: </span><span style="color: #00367e; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Gary Williams is a professor of law at Loyola Law School, where he teaches civil rights litigation. He is a past president and current member of the Board of Directors of the ACLU of Southern California.</span>
<span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The //Bivens// exception </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">… **__<span style="color: #1a1718;">programs and oper- ations</span>__**</span><span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


===Elections DA=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A) Uniqueness: Obama is ahead in the election right now but a Romney win is still possible. The election focus has shifted to foreign policy. Beaumont, 9/14:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beaumont, Thomas, and Steve Peoples. "Foreign Policy at Forefront Is a Romney Hurdle." Huffington Post, 14 Sept. 2012. Web. <[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/huff-wires/20120914/us-romney-challenges/]]>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"With protests at...for doing that."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">B) Link: Affirming is an unprecedented shift in status quo counter terrorism which is popular among the core of the Democratic party. Wilson and Cohen, Feb 9th:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wilson, Scott, and Jon Cohen. "Poll Finds Broad Support for Obama’s Counterterrorism Policies." The Washington Post, 09 Feb. 2012. Web. 18 Aug. 2012. <[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/poll-finds-broad-support-for-obamas-counterterrorism-policies/2012/02/07/gIQAFrSEyQ_story.html]]>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The sharpest edges...in this election year"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Disad takes out all Aff solvency because the plan will be repealed. Weisman 5/19:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weisman, Jonathan: “House Rejects an Effort to Limit Indefinite Detentions." The New York Times. The New York Times, 19 May 2012. Web. 14 Sept. 2012. <[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/19/us/politics/house-votes-to-preserve-a-power-of-indefinite-detention.html]]>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The House on Friday turned...as Republicans voted for it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">C) Internal Link: If Romney wins the 2012 election he will collapse US- Russia relations and repeal missile control treaties.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oppel</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oppel, 12 [Richard A., journalist for The New York Times, “Romney’s Adversarial View of Russia Stirs Debate,”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/12/us/politics/romneys-view-of-russia-sparks-debate.html?_r=1&pagewanted=1&pagewanted=print]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Mitt Romney’s recent declaration...from the ground up."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">D) Impact: US-Russian relations key to stopping extinction. Allison and Blackwill:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Allison and Blackwill, 11 [Graham, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D., International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters,” [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"That central point is that...in advancing our national interests."</span>

==Theory/T== 
===T Accused=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">A) Interpretation: Merriam Webster defines accuse as “**__to charge with an offense judicially or by a public process__”.** Accused is past tense, so the aff must only extend due process rights to non citizens charged with terrorism publically and in court.</span>
Accuse." //Merriam-Webster//. Merriam-Webster, 11 Nov. 2011. Web. 18 Aug. 2012. <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/accuse>.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) Violation: The Aff extends due process rights to subjects of targeted killing, extraordinary rendition, and torture</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) Standards</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Limits</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Text-</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Voter: Fairness </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">T is an issue of competing interpretations </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">reject the argument, no RVI</span>

===T Article III Federal Courts=== 
A) Interp: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Aff must defend the trial of non citizens accused of terrorism in Article III Federal Courts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B) Violation:</span>
C) Standards
1. Predictability
2. Text
D) Voter
Fairness, Education
T is an issue of competing interps
Drop the debater

===Theory Submit CPs=== 
A) Interpretation:
1) The negative must provide specific cooperation solvency evidence that the US will submit to the jurisdiction of , they may not fiat submission
2)If running an international body counterplan, the Negative must only fiat that non citizens get a trial but not that they are prosecuted successfully.
B) Violation:
C) Standards:
1) Qualitative Ground
2. Reciprocity-
D) Voter:
Fairness, Education is a voter
Theory precedes substance
Drop the debater
T is an issue of competing interps
Potential abuse is a voter
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===USNHC AC=== 
====Plan Text==== 
The USFG will enact the United States National Health Care Act, H.R. 676. This entails the creation of a universal single payer health care system in which all medically necessary care decided between doctor and patient would be paid for by the US Government, recasting private insurance companies as purely supplemental coverage, to be used when non essential care is sought. I reserve the right to clarify.
====Framework==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My burden is to prove it would be more desirable for the U.S. to act on the resolutional maxim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nelson, Adam F. Towards A Comprehensive Theory of Lincoln-Douglas Debate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"And the truth-statement... as a whole."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I value morality. The standard is maximizing expected well-being.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no act-omission distinction for governments.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In our view...adequately discourage it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moral theorists agree that simplicity, consistency, and explanatory depth are epistemic virtues to which all moral thought aspires. Setiya:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kieran Setiya, “Does Moral Theory Corrupt Youth?” PHILOSOPHICAL TOPICS , VOL. 38, NO. 1, SPRING 2010. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"While there are... justifications are deep."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Consequentialism is simple, consistent, and broad. Setiya 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In what follows</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">given to accept."</span>
====Harms and Inherency==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Un-insurance- current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens- that results in thousands of deaths per year. Morgan ‘12</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">David Morgan 12, [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, <span style="color: #0000ee;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80]]</span>.</span></span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">More than **__26,000__** working… time," Kellermann said.</span>
====Solvency==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The USNHC expands coverage to all. Conyers</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Conyers, John. "Bill Summary & Status 111th Congress (2009 - 2010) H.R.676CRS Summary." //Bill Summary & Status//. Library of Congress, 26 Jan. 2009. Web. 24 June 2012. <http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:HR00676:@@@D></span>
**__U__**nited **__S__**tates **__N__**ational….based on utilization.

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Single payer also saves hundreds of billions of dollars. Hellander cites Friedman</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Ida Hellander. “Single Payer System Cost?-How Much Would a Single Payer System Cost?” [[http://www.pnhp.org/facts/single-payer-system-cost]] July 2012. Gerald Friedman, Professor of economics, University of Massachusetts-Amherst.</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“While providing superior….**__necessary care to all__**.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Only single payer can increase quality of care. PNHP<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> cites Schiff, 9 warrants.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">How Single-Payer Health System Reform Improves Quality</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Adopted from “A Better Quality Alternative: Single-Payer Health System Reform,” by Dr. Gordon Schiff and the PNHP Working Group on Quality. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Adapted from: Schiff, Gordon D., Bindman, Andrew B., Brennan, Troyen A. “A Better Quality Alternative: Single-Payer Health System Reform.” //Journal of the American Medical Association.// September 14, 1994.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Single-payer creates… patient turnover of ineligibility for coverage.</span>

====Advantage 1: Bioterror==== 
Currentemergency care-only practices does not protect against the spread of infectious diseases – coverage for preventive care is key to prevent a bioterrorist attack. Green 04’:
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">AMA Journal of Ethics, Shane K, PhD, “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without Access,” American Medical Association Journal of Ethics, V6 N5, (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Using infectious diseases … spread of infectious __**disease.**__</span>
Access to medical care will protect from a bioterror attack and prevent the spread of other contagious diseases. Sklar 02’
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">(Holly Sklar, 12/19/2002, Rolling the Dice on Our Nation's Health, p. </span><span style="color: #1237ca; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.html]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Imagine if the … a</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ny __**bioterror attack.**__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Bioterrorism is a severe threat to the US. It is necessary to act now. The Commission the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[“W O R L D A T R I S K” The Report of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism. First Vintage Books Edition: December 2008]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Commission believes … **__shrinking, not growing__**.</span>
Bioterrorism causes extinction. Matheny 07’
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of </span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">current __**extinction risks…**__ to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

====Advantage 2: Heg==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Health care for those at the bottom is key to international competitiveness. Francis 09 isolates multiple warrants </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Diane Francis, Financial Post, June 4, 2009. [[http://www.vancouversun.com/Health/Health+care+good+economy/1596017/story.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">If a worker in Canada…hard-working citizens. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Failure to restructure health care means US companies outsource overseas, killing economic competitiveness. Bartik</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Timothy. “A future of good jobs?”. Pg 97. http://books.google.com/books?id=o0b8aIv2E_4C&dq=domestic+health+insurance+industry+AND+global+economy&source=gbs_navlinks_s)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">With employers movin**__… health insurance costs.__** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Heg solves multiple scenarios for global nuclear war, Khalizad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad. Washington Quarterly, Spring 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Realistically and over the … l rogue states such as North </span>

====Advantage 3: Economy==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We’re on the brink of double dip recession. Fontevecchia, 9/21</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Agustino Fontevecchia September 21 [“Double-Dip Recession 20% To 25% Likely If Fiscal Cliff Hits, S&P Warns” Forbes, 9/21/12 <span style="color: #0000ee;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2012/09/21/double-dip-recession-20-to-25-likely-if-fiscal-cliff-hits-sp-warns/]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A poor labor market… FOMC press conference**__,__** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Universal health care saves money because companies don’t have to ensure work benefits and solves job lock. Behzad</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Now let's extrapolate… billion dollars per year.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Small businesses control the strongest internal link to economic growth and job creation. Saade</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Clark III and Radwan Saade - September 2010. The Role of Small Business in Economic Development of the United States: From the End of the Korean War (1953) to the Present. SBA Office of Advocacy. “Small businesses currently…area program.</span></span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Small businesses </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">currently … Surplus area program.xliv</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline results in global nuclear war. Bearden</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lt Col. Beardon, PhD, 2000 http://www.cheniere.org/correspondence/042500%20-%20modified.htm Lt. Col Thomas E. Bearden (retd.) PhD, MS (nuclear engineering), BS (mathematics - minor electronic engineering) Co-inventor - the 2002 Motionless Electromagnetic Generator - a replicated overunity EM generator Listed in Marquis' Who'sWho in America, 2004 The Tom Bearden Website From: Tom Bearden To: (Correspondent) Subj: Zero-Point Energy Date: Original Tue, 25 Apr 2000 12:36:29 -0500 Modified and somewhat updated Dec. 29, 2000.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">History bears out t… least for many decades.</span>

====Underview==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ethical agnosticism should lead us to default towards preventing extinction as a meta-constraint on all ethical theories. Bostrom:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nick Bostrom, 2001 prof of Philosophy, Oxford University [ Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest...lot of value."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Normative uncertainty demands that we take existential risks seriously even under non-consequentialist ethical frameworks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bostrom 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"There will be some...to decision making."</span>
==Negative== 
===Biotech DA=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">A) Uniqueness: </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Biotechnology is growing now. The industry is recovering well from the economic crisis. Noonan summarizes Burrill</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Kevin Noonan writing on a speech by Steve Burrill. “Docs at BIO: Steve Burrill’s State of the Biotechnology Industry Report 2011.” July 5, 2011. Biotechnology Industries Organization International Convention.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">The underlying theme **__…__** decision in </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.patentdocs.org/2011/06/board-of-trustees-of-the-leland-stanford-junior-university-v-roche-molecular-systems-inc-2011.html|//Stanford v. Roche//]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">).</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Link</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: Universal health care destroys biotechnological innovation. Fazio</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jacome Fazio, managing editor of the Northwestern Chronicle and weekly contributor to the D.C. Writeup, **09** ( Ryan “Public Option will pull the plug on medical innovation” [[http://www.thedcwriteup.com/2009/07/public-option-will-pull-the-plug-on-medical-innovation]] ) </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">America, we often hear,… </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">**__innovation requires investment.__**</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">C) Internal Link: </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Biotechnology is key to prevent bioterrorism. Brower**:**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Vicki Brower. EMBO Rep. 2003 March; 4(3): 227–229.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Science and Society. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1315911/</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">The good news **__…__** cholera and typhoid.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brower 2 continues:</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Biotech companies' efforts … </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">research, she said.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D) Impact: </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioterrorism is a severe threat to the US. It is necessary to act now. The Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“W O R L D A T R I S K” The Report of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism. First Vintage Books Edition: December 2008]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Commission believes … **__shrinking, not growing__**.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioterrorism causes extinction. Matheny</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007]</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of current extinction … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

===Fiscal Cliff Ptx=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) Uniqueness</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: Obama’s political capital is high after a big election win, sufficient to get a deal with cooperative Republicans to avoid the fiscal cliff. Bennett and Fryer, 11/10</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JOHN T. BENNETT and ZACHARY FRYER-“Hopes Rise in U.S. for Sequestration Deal,Obama Win Sparks New Tone, Outlook On DoD Budget”. (http://www.defensenews.com/article/20121110/DEFREG02/311100001/Hopes-Rise-U-S-Sequestration-Deal?odyssey=tab%7Ctopnews%7Ctext%7CFRONTPAGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nov. 10, 2012 - 01:39PM </span>

<span style="color: #212121; font-size: 12pt;">The adage that elections … **__pass the Senate.__**</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Link: </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan saps Obama’s political capital. Republicans already are fighting to kill Obamacare and new universal health care legislation would supercharge partisanship and Obama’s already lost public support. NYT, 11/8</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New York Times: Health Care Reform, Nov. 8, 2012. (**http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/health_insurance_and_managed_care/health_care_reform/index.html?offset=0&s=newest)**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the November 2010 … requirements for the waivers.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C) Internal Link:</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Sequestration at end of 2012 triggers economic collapse. Fontevecchia, 9/21</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agustino Fontevecchia September 21 [“Double-Dip Recession 20% To 25% Likely If Fiscal Cliff Hits, S&P Warns” Forbes, 9/21/12 <span style="color: #0000ee;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2012/09/21/double-dip-recession-20-to-25-likely-if-fiscal-cliff-hits-sp-warns/]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There’s a 20% to 25% chance… it goes over the cliff.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline results in global nuclear war. Bearden</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Lt Col. Beardon, PhD, 2000 http://www.cheniere.org/correspondence/042500%20-%20modified.htm Lt. Col Thomas E. Bearden (retd.) PhD, MS (nuclear engineering), BS (mathematics - minor electronic engineering) Co-inventor - the 2002 Motionless Electromagnetic Generator - a replicated overunity EM generator Listed in Marquis' Who'sWho in America, 2004 The Tom Bearden Website From: Tom Bearden To: (Correspondent) Subj: Zero-Point Energy Date: Original Tue, 25 Apr 2000 12:36:29 -0500 Modified and somewhat updated Dec. 29, 2000.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">History bears out that </span><span class="HeaderChar" style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">desperate </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">… at least for many decades.</span>


==Theory/T== 
===T UHC Spec=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) Interpretation: The Aff must specify and defend the actual implementation of a type of universal health care</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) Violation:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) Standards</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Topic Lit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Stable Advocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Clash</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Voter</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fairness, Education</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">T is an issue of competing interps</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">drop the debater</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative-== 
===Bill Bone AC=== 
What differentiates rehabilitation from retribution is their form of justification; they are contrastive justifying aims of punishment.Lessnoff

Lessnoff, Michael. Two Justifications of Punishment. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336.
“By the retributive…or bad acts.”



Current US Sentencing Guidelines pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 explicitly takes no stance on which should be valued higher. Dubber and Kelman

Dubber, Markus D. [SUNY Buffalo Law School] and Mark G. Kelman [Stanford Law School]. American Criminal Law: Cases, Statutes, and Comments 2nd Ed. Foundation Press. 2012. http://www.dubberkelman.com/display.asp?displayID=chapter1.pdf
“The Sentencing Guidelines…the same sentence.”



The resolution asks about only one mode of justification, i.e. what the justifying aim of the social institution of punishment should be, so it questions whether the teleological justification of punishment ought to be conceived of as utilitarian or retributive. Lessnoff 2

“What then, is…of entitling justicification.”


I contend that the teleological justification for punishment must be utilitarian. Lessnoff 3 explains with an analogy to eminent domain:

“A similar dichotomy…is essentially correct.”


And ignore answers that criticize utilitarianism as a general moral theory as these do not apply specifically to utilitarian theories of punishment. Lessnoff 4

“I am here…also a determinist).”



The fission thought experiment proves that the first, Simple View, fails. Shoemaker
David Shoemaker, “Personal Identity and Ethics”, 2008, SEP.

“By way of…Matter (IDM) view.”


Personal identity, then, is not absolute but rather admits of degrees. Parfit

Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 139-141.

“The identity of … an earlier self.’”

The moral neutrality of the time of an action also commits us to the moral neutrality of the person a moral action harms. Parfit 2

“This reply might…itself no importance.’”


Lack of personal identity undermines desert-based theories of punishment. Dresser

Dresser, Rebecca (JD Associate Professor, School of Law and Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western U). Personal Identity and Punishment; 70 B.U. L. Rev. 395 (1990)

“The provocative implications…the “Extreme Claim.””


Rehabilitation, specifically cognitive-behavioral therapy, is particularly effective at reducing recidivism among adults and juveniles – meta-analysis proves. Landenberger and Lipsey

The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies. Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18th Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH). In press, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005

“Several well conducted…the control groups.”

Increased recidivism has four impacts. Wilson

Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review, 2007. http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism

“The effects of…on correctional programs.”
===Stacked AC=== 
====Framework==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My burden is to prove it would be more desirable for the U.S. to act on the resolutional maxim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nelson, Adam F. Towards A Comprehensive Theory of Lincoln-Douglas Debate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"And the truth-statement... as a whole."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The neg must accept reasonable aff ethical framework choice...</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I value morality. The standard is maximizing expected well-being.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no act-omission distinction for governments.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In our view...adequately discourage it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moral theorists agree that simplicity, consistency, and explanatory depth are epistemic virtues to which all moral thought aspires. Setiya:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kieran Setiya, “Does Moral Theory Corrupt Youth?” PHILOSOPHICAL TOPICS , VOL. 38, NO. 1, SPRING 2010. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"While there are... justifications are deep."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Consequentialism is simple, consistent, and broad. Setiya 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In what follows</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">given to accept."</span>

====Contention 1: Crime==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rehabilitation, specifically cognitive behavioral therapy is effective at reducing recidivism. Meta analyses proves, Landenberger:</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18th Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In press, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Several well conducted …the control groups. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased recidivism has four impacts, Wilson</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] //Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States//, Roosevelt Review, 2007. [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The effects of …cannot be understated. </span>
====Contention 2: Terrorism==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Saudi deradicalization programs boast a 20% recidivism rate. Rabasa:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Angel Rabasa, Stacie L. Pettyjohn, Jeremy J. Ghez, Christopher Boucek, Deradicalizing Islamist Extremists. RAND Corporation, NATIONAL SECURITY RESEARCH DIVISION, 2010. PG. 75-76</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Saudi deradicalization …its effectiveness in </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rehab ends indefinite detention. Rabasa 2:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Angel Rabasa, Stacie L. Pettyjohn, Jeremy J. Ghez, Christopher Boucek, Deradicalizing Islamist Extremists. RAND Corporation, NATIONAL SECURITY RESEARCH DIVISION, 2010. PG. 38-29</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Radical Islamism has …reintegrating into society.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Indefinite detention increases terrorism, Roth:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kenneth Roth 2008, [American attorney and has been the executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993],“After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention”, Foreign Affairs, the Council on Foreign Relations, May/June 2008. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Criminal prosecution of …multiple attempted murders."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Terrorism causes extinction. Wilkinson and Hartwig:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wilkinson and Hartwig 10, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010, </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Despite the differing …of class-based politics.</span>

====Contention 3: Russia==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Russia is on the brink of authoritarianism, Schwartz:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Pussy Riot sentences just the latest crackdowns by Putin’s Kremlin Free expression seen under threat by Russia’s new authoritarianism” by Daniel Schwartz, August 18,2012. ([[http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/08/17/f-russia-pussy-riot.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/08/17/pussy-riot-verdict-moscow-russia.html|On Friday]], after …at the Olympics sites.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirming solves the root cause, Mendelson</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“U.S. Russian Relations and the Democracy and Rule of Law Deficit” by Sarah E. Mendelson, A Century Foundation Report, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The ability of…international system.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact is extinction, Blackwill:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Allison and Blackwill, 11 [Graham, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D., International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters,”http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That central point …our national interests</span>



====Contention 4: International Law==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ending the death penalty solves widespread US violation of international law and on the brink. Amnesty International 13</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://www.amnesty.org/en/death-penalty/international-law</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #0c0c0c; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Universal Declaration...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">from International Law.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Effective international law solves every impact—US commitment uniquely key. IEER</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Institute for Energy and Environmental Research and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy. //Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties//. May 2002. <<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span>> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The evolution of ....crimes against humanity</span>

====Contention 5: Central Asia==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Adherence to the death penalty kills US IR credibility and foreign policy. Koh and Pickering 03</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #444444; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harold Hongju Koh and Thomas R. Pickering, </span><span style="color: #11273e; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"American Diplomacy and the Death Penalty”. </span>//<span style="color: #444444; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">November 12, 2003 (<span style="color: #0000ee; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.yale.edu/news/4671.htm]]</span>). Quals: Harold Hongju Koh is Gerard C. and Bernice Latrobe Smith Professor of International Law at Yale University.. Thomas R. Pickering, a career ambassador, served as under secretary of State for political affairs,</span>//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increasingly, this issue...United States Questions at Home</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human rights leadership is critical to prevent war in Central Asia. Hill 01</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hill ’1 (Fiona, Fellow @ Brookings Institution, The Caucasus and Central Asia: How The United States and its Allies Can Stave</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In the next...sources of information.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Central Asia is on the brink of conflict- US withrdrawal from Afghanistan prompted regional tensions with Russian and US intervention. Kucera 3/27</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Joshua Kucera, “Great Game in Central Asia After Afghanistan”. March 27,2013 (http://thediplomat.com/2013/03/27/the-great-game-in-central-asia-after-afghanistan/?all=true)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> __U.S...__participate in its activities.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Central Asia instability goes nuclear. Tsepkalo ‘98</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Valery V., Belarus' Ambassador to the United States, Foreign Affairs, The Remaking of Eurasia, March/April, lexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">But abetting the ... and more dangerous place.</span>


====Underview 1: Existential Risk==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ethical agnosticism should lead us to default towards preventing extinction as a meta-constraint on all ethical theories. Bostrom:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nick Bostrom, 2001 prof of Philosophy, Oxford University [ Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest...lot of value."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Normative uncertainty demands that we take existential risks seriously even under non-consequentialist ethical frameworks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bostrom 2 [Ibid]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"There will be some...to decision making."</span>

====Underview 2: Comparing Worlds==== 
My burden is to prove it would be more desirable for the U.S. to act on the resolutional maxim, and the negative must prove it less desirable to act on that maxim. By embedding desirability into its evaluative structure, comparing worlds eliminates the infinite variety of skeptical objections available to the neg under truth-testing. Truth-testing prescribes an absolute, unmeetable burden to the aff. Nelson:
Nelson, Adam F. __Towards A Comprehensive Theory of Lincoln-Douglas Debate__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">And the</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> truth,,, </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">as a whole.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Comparing worlds by definition evaluates the desirability of two states of affairs; thus, reject deontology since it evaluates whether an action is consistent with certain maxims regardless of the desirability of states of affairs. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Comparing worlds is also most educational – policy-making paradigm teaches us to become more effective real world activists. Keller writes:</span>
Keller, Whittaker, and Burke 01 [Thomas E., Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago, James K., professor of Social Work, and Tracy K., doctoral student School of Social Work, “Student debates in policy courses: promoting policy practice skills and knowledge through active learning,” Journal of Social Work Education, Spr/Summer]


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Policy practice encompasses...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 4pt;">for</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">critical thinking.</span>__**

===Melanie Bone AC=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12.5pt;">Part 1: Interpretational Issues</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12.5pt;">1) Smith defines rehabilitation as:</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Nick Smith, University of New Hampshire Department of Philosophy. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 8pt;">Encyclopedia of Criminal Justice</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">”</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Although rehabilitation is...</span>tries to help them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Lessnoff defines retribution:</span>

Lessnoff, Michael. Two Justifications of Punishment. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336.

<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">By the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> retributive...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">to its justification.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Part II: Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I value morality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">To act together is to share the same kind of moral goal and act jointly to attain it, but two agents who do not conceive of each other from the same, self-actualizing concept do not share the same kind of moral goal. Thompson</span>

Michael Thompson, “What is it to Wrong Someone? A Puzzle about Justice”

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">We must content ourselves...</span>a structure in place?

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Actions cannot be adequately described apart from reference to the institutional rules of the practice of which it is a part. Schapiro:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Schapiro, Tamar (Stanford University). </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">Three Conceptions of Action in Moral Theory</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Noûs 35 (1):93–117, 2001.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In his early article...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">them to be.</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Explanation of doing A in terms of a practice of A-ing avoids this problem, and provides the only possible ground for determinate truth conditions of action statements. Roedl:</span>

Sebastian Roedl, “Practice and the Unity of Action”. University of Leipzig

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Someone can intend...</span>__training by other’s both


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rule following is paradoxical because neither a rule by itself nor an individual’s interpretation of the rule can determine how the rule is to be followed. Only established expectations – i.e. a social practice – can explain how a rule ought to be followed. Langseth 1:</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Langesth, Jonathan. “Wittengenstein’s Account of Rule-Following and Its Implications”. Stance Vol 1, April 1, 2008. </span><span style="color: #001584; font-family: 'Adobe Garamond Pro',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bsu.edu/libraries/virtualpress/stance/2008_spring/12Wittgenstein.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This section shows...</span>meaning and understanding.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Thus, the sufficient aff burden is to prove that form of a practice generates an obligation to value rehabilitation over retribution</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">I contend the social practice generates an obligation to value rehab over retribution</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We are obligated to re-initiate criminals into the practice by rehabilitating them. Langseth 2 confirms:</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">A person goes by...</span>__value in justifying correct rule-following.


==Negative== 
===Second Personal Reasons NC=== 
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only an account of moral obligation as being addressed to second-personal wrongs can offer the right reason for acting morally. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Thompson: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Michael Thompson “What is it to Wrong Someone? A Puzzle about Justice” </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">p346-347:</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">And </span>**__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Times;">suppose I...</span>__**specifically moral gear.


**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the sufficient negative burden is to show that retribution addresses crime as a second personal wrong</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>


<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only retribution addresses crime as a second personal wrong, punishing the criminal //because// he has wronged someone else. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Retributivism holds that punishment is warranted because the guilty deserves to be punished proportionally to the crime he committed against the victim, independent of benefits it may produce. Lessnoff</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Two Justifications of Punishment Author(s): Michael Lessnoff Reviewed work(s): Source: The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148 Published by: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Wiley </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">for </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The Philosophical Quarterly </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336 </span><span style="color: white; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Accessed: 12/12/2012 14:51</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">By</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the retributive...</span>__**undesirable or bad acts.


===House of Cards NC=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">First</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">, only a view of action as rational expression can make sense of the idea that actions are attributable to persons. An action is distinguished from a mere event by the fact that it issues from the person’s constitution. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Korsgaard:</span>

CHRISTINE M. KORSGAARD, “SELF-CONSTITUTION IN THE ETHICS OF PLATO AND KANT”(15 September 1998)

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, in both...or self-government. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Second</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, only an agent’s reasons from means to ends provides the necessary unity of movement in an action. Rodl</span>

Sebastian Roedl. Prof. Of Philosophy, University of Leipzig. “Two Forms of Practical Knowledge and Their Unity” in Ford and Hornsby, Eds. Essays on Anscombe's Intention (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2011) 239.

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can give...</span>of her nexus.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">The neg burden is to prove that retribution is consistent with action as rational expression</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">I contend </span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">that only retribution is consistent with action as rational expression.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">presume negative </span><span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">since </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to negate means </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">“to deny the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">existence or</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">truth of,”</span>__
negate." __Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary__. 2010. Merriam-Webster Online. 18 August 2010. <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/negate>


===Kant NC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proper understanding of the world around us first requires a unified conception of the world, which only practical reason allows.Korsgaard:[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Christine Korsgaard. “The Normative Constitution of Agency.” Harvard University.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The parallel point...or knowing anything.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The formal principle of making any judgments, including moral judgments, is that our judgments seek to be one with other judgments—hence, not contradictory. Reath[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Andrews Reath, “Formal Approaches to Kant’s Formula of Humanity,” 2009 (To appear in Sorin Baiasu and Mark Timmons, eds, Kant on Practical Justification: Interpretive Essays (Oxford University Press)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A formal principle...must be withdrawn</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The standard is consistency with the categorical imperative</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only retributive punishment is consistent with the categorical imperative. Fleischacker</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Samuel Fleischacker, “Kant’s Theory of Punishment,” Kant-Studien 79, no. 4 (1988), p. 442</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Retributive punishment serves...willed it universally</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Punishment is the only universalizable maxim because it reasserts the victim’s reciprocal right toward the criminal. Ripstein</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ripstein, Arthur. Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy. Harvard University Press. 2009. Pg. 54-55.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, Kant’s conception...the original right.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Under Kantian moral philosophy agent specific considerations contradict a priori based law and treat humans as means only. Landa</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dimitri Landa, “On the Possibility of Kantian Retributivism”. (cs.as.nyu.edu/docs/IO/2790/KantianRetributivismUtilitas.pdf), Quals:Assistant Professor of Politics, New York University, e-mail: [[mailto:dimitri.landa@nyu.edu|dimitri.landa@nyu.edu]]. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In these accounts...the moral law</span>


===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) Uniqueness: Obama’s political capital is high after a big election win, sufficient to get a deal with cooperative Republicans to avoid the fiscal cliff. Bennett and Fryer, 11/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JOHN T. BENNETT and ZACHARY FRYER-“Hopes Rise in U.S. for Sequestration Deal,Obama Win Sparks New Tone, Outlook On DoD Budget”. (http://www.defensenews.com/article/20121110/DEFREG02/311100001/Hopes-Rise-U-S-Sequestration-Deal?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The adage that...pass the Senate.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) Link: Rehabilitation is destroys chances of compromise over the fiscal cliff-Obama is negotiating with Boehner who hates criminal rehabilitation, proven by Boehner’s voting record</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.facebook.com/l/HAQGtxu0eAQEQzKHlAy2v7WVSRnqOY5cEcBZz6S-3OmSBVA/www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner.htm|www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Voted No on...penalty. (Sep 1994)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C) Internal Link:. Sequestration at end of 2012 triggers economic collapse. Fontevecchia, 9/21</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Agustino Fontevecchia September 21 [“Double-Dip Recession 20% To 25% Likely If Fiscal Cliff Hits, S&P Warns” Forbes, 9/21/12 [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2012/09/21/double-dip-recession-20-to-25-likely-if-fiscal-cliff-hits-sp-warns/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There's a 20%...over the cliff.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic decline results in global nuclear war. Bearden</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lt Col. Beardon, PhD, 2000 http://www.cheniere.org/correspondence/042500%20-%20modified.htm Lt. Col Thomas E. Bearden (retd.) PhD, MS (nuclear engineering), BS (mathematics - minor electronic engineering) Co-inventor - the 2002 Motionless Electromagnetic Generator - a replicated overunity EM generator Listed in Marquis' Who'sWho in America, 2004 The Tom Bearden Website From: Tom Bearden To: (Correspondent) Subj: Zero-Point Energy Date: Original Tue, 25 Apr 2000 12:36:29 -0500 Modified and somewhat updated Dec. 29, 2000.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">History bears out...for many decades.</span>
=== === 
===Debt Ceiling DA=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) UQ: Debt ceiling doesn’t deal happens now- Obama refuses to negotiate and will prevail over resilient Republicans but his political capital is key. Shear and Calmes, 1/2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">By [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/s/michael_d_shear/index.html|MICHAEL D. SHEAR]] and [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/c/jackie_calmes/index.html|JACKIE CALMES]], “Lawmakers Gird for Next Fiscal Clash, on the Debt Ceiling”. The New York Times, January 2, 2013</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">WASHINGTON — With the...Obama said Tuesday.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) Link: Rehabilitation tanks Obama’s political capital. Criminal justice reform plays a huge part in political capital. Hechinger</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although this pathology...crimes. (Apr 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reform risks loss of political capital. Hechinger 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Since election cycles...to safer streets.114</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Failure to avoid the debt celing causes economic collapse. Coombes 1/4</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[mailto:andreacoombes@outlook.com|Andrea Coombes]], “Debt-ceiling debacle threatens jobs, economy”. Jan. 4, 2013 (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/debt-ceiling-debacle-threatens-jobs-economy-2013-01-04)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The question now is...at least possible.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic decline results in global nuclear war. Bearden</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lt Col. Beardon, PhD, 2000 http://www.cheniere.org/correspondence/042500%20-%20modified.htm Lt. Col Thomas E. Bearden (retd.) PhD, MS (nuclear engineering), BS (mathematics - minor electronic engineering) Co-inventor - the 2002 Motionless Electromagnetic Generator - a replicated overunity EM generator Listed in Marquis' Who'sWho in America, 2004 The Tom Bearden Website From: Tom Bearden To: (Correspondent) Subj: Zero-Point Energy Date: Original Tue, 25 Apr 2000 12:36:29 -0500 Modified and somewhat updated Dec. 29, 2000.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">History bears out...or many decades.</span>

===Immigration DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) UQ: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Immigration reform happens now, capital is key. Foley 2/7</span>

<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Foley, Elise “Obama On Immigration Reform: Politics Not Easy, But 'Now Is The Time'”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Posted: 02/07/2013 1:50 pm EST (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/02/07/obama-immigration-reform_n_2638843.html)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">LANSDOWNE, Va. -- President...</span>to make progress."</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) Link:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Rehabilitation tanks Obama’s political capital. Criminal justice reform plays a huge part in political capital. Hechinger</span>
</span>
SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Although this pathology</span>...crimes. (Apr 2009)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reform risks loss of political capital. Hechinger 2</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Since </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">election cycles</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">...to safer streets.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">114</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Comprehensive reform are key to relations with China and India. Williams 11-9</span>
</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Carol J, International Affairs Writer “Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform”, </span><span style="color: #0000ee; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"Comprehensive</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__immigration__**</span>...makes it controversial and elusive.


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war. Schaffer 02</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Schaffer, 2002 (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Washington's increased interest in India … relations with the United States.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Washington's</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">increased</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__interest__**</span> ...with the United States.</span>


===Sanctions DA=== 
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">A) UQ: In the status quo, US sanctions are highly effective a nd are a primary tool in promoting democratic reform. Collins</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Democracy Sanctions An Assessment of Economic Sanctions as an Instrument of Democracy Promotion. Stephen D. Collins. [Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science and International Affairs at Kennesaw State University]. Taiwan Journal of Democracy. Volume 5. Number 2. p. 69-96. December 2009</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">While charges of… reversed within days</span>



<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">B) Link: This is due to a culture of control resulting from US retributivist domestic policies. Shifting to a rehabilitationist approach would end these policies. Wagner</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Wolfgang Wagner Rehabilitation or Retribution? Cultures of Control and Policies towards “Rogue States” 1 Inaugural Lecture at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 4 October, 2010 </span><span style="color: #0028ba; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://home.fsw.vu.nl/wm.wagner/wagner_inaugural_text.pdf]]</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Why are **__[The]__**… **__justice__** at that time.</span>


<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">C) Int Link: The impact is global conflict and extinction. The status quo is on balance peaceful due to democratization – Continuation is essential to avert nuclear war. Muravchik</span>

<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Muravchik 01 – Resident Scholar at American Enterprise Institute [Joshua, “Democracy and nuclear peace,” Jul 11, </span><span style="color: #0028ba; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npec-web.org/syllabi/muravchik.htm]]</span><span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">]</span>

**<span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">The greatest impetus </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">… </span><span style="color: #141414; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">be still more remote.</span>



<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">D) Impact: The best scientific models indicate even a limited nuclear exchange would cause an agricultural disaster killing billions. Toon et al 08</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Owen B. Toon, Alan Robock, and Richard P. Turco, “Environmental consequences of nuclear war”. December 2008, page 37 (</span><span style="color: #003ec4; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://ptonline.aip.org/journals/doc/PHTOAD-ft/vol_61/iss_12/37_1.shtml?bypassSSO=1#bio|http://ptonline.aip.org/journals/doc/PHTOAD-ft/vol_61/iss_12/37_1.shtml?bypassSSO=1#bio]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">). Quals: Brian Toon is chair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences and a member of the laboratory for atmospheric and space physics at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Alan Robock is a professor of atmospheric science at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Rich Turco is a professor of atmospheric science at the University of California, Los Angeles.</span>


<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Figure 3a indicates **__…__**yet been conducted.</span>


==Theory/T== 
===Theory AFC (TOC Rd 1 v. Carlbrook CB, TOC Rd 3 v. NOJ JH, TOC Rd 6 v. Walt Whitman JL)=== 
A) Interp: The negative must accept a reasonable aff ethical framework choice
B) Violation:
C) Standards
1. Timeskew
2. Strat skew
3. Topic education
4. Clash

===T Aim of Punishment (TOC Rd 2 v. HW TC, TOC Rd 4 v. Byram Hills JA)=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: The affirmative must value rehabilitation above retribution in the criminal justice system as a whole in terms of the aim of punishment as opposed to the implementation or repeal specific policies that change the focus of a particular treatment or law. Lessnoff</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Lessnoff, Michael. //Two Justifications of Punishment//. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336]]</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> By **__the retributive...__**</span>undesirable or bad acts.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Violation:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 1</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Text: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Topic Lit</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Limits</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current US Sentencing Guidelines pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 explicitly takes no stance on which should be valued higher. Dubber and Kelman</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Sentencing Guidelines...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">produce the same sentence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Voter</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: Fairness is a voter </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Education is a voter </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drop the debater:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Deter future abuse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Unfairness has already skewed the evaluation of substance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Reject the argument is severance</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E) Framework</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: T is an issue of competing interpretations </span>


===Theory Retributivism Spikes (TOC Rd 5 v. SLP RS)=== 
A. Interpretation: If the aff defines retribution as (insert AC definition), then the affirmative may not read arguments that deny the conceptual possibility of retributivism.
B. Violation :
C. Standards
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Reciprocity-</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Topic Literature</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fairness is a voter </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Education is a voter </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Theory is an issue of competing interpretations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drop the debater</span>
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==