[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
V- morality

Existence is a burden.

Michael Purcell . "On Hesitation before the Other." International Journal for Philosophy of Religion, 60 (1/3), Dec. 2006,
The incidental incident …by another way.

This means we are obligated to the other.

Confronted by another…all the egoisms.

VC- respecting our responsibility to the other

1C- our responsibility to the other necessitates due process

1- the state must respect humans.
Levinas and Political Theory, C. Fred Alford, 2004, Political Theory , Vol. 32, No. 2 (Apr., 2004), p. 146-171

There are if … Aufhebung of liberalism

The responsibility necessitates justice.
Levinas, Emmanuel. Otherwise Than Being. 1st paperback edition. Pittsburgh: Duquesne University Press, 1981. Print.

The foundation of … all the egoisms.

2- The concept of terrorism is totalizing.
Borradori, Geovanna, and Jacques Derrida. Philosophy in a Time of Terror. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2003. Print.

Those called terrorists… and logistical support.
==Negative== 
Constitution NC
V- proper US legal policy

The constitution is binding on the US, so proving an inconsistency is sufficient to negate.

1C – there is a contradiction
Parrish, Austen L., “Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Nonresident, Alien Defendants.” Wake Forest Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 1, Spring 2006.

The case law … deepen as well
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]