[[toc]]
If you have any questions about evidence, desire to exchange cases, blocks, etc., or just want to chat/debate about a topic, you can contact me at lenamond2424@gmail.com. I will disclose full cases on this site after the topic ends.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">I affirm Resolved: The US ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens. For clarification, I offer the following definitions:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ought </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">implies a moral evaluation of obligations of the actor, or in this case, the US Government</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Non-citizen </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is any individual who is not a national of a State in which he or she is present (</span><span style="color: red; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UN Declaration of Human Rights</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Terrorism </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is the unlawful use of violence or threat of violence to instill fear and coerce governments or societies (</span><span style="color: red; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Department of Defense</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stevens ’08 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Professor Stevens, Professor of Law, North Carolina Wesleyan College, DUE PROCESS OF LAW: PROCEDURAL AND SUBSTANTIVE ISSUES, 2003]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">When someone speaks of due process...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">procedures and outcomes.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Observe that the resolution includes the phrase “due process protections.” As such, we are not debating whether the US ought to extend the right to due process, as the resolution presumes that all individuals possess a right to due process. Rather, we are debating whether the right to due process ought to be protected or violated. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Because of this the **Value** of the Affirmative is **Human Dignity**, defined as “the inherent worth of all individuals that exists independent of circumstances.” Prefer this value for two reasons. First, Human Dignity is the core foundation of moral philosophies, such as Morality, Justice, Societal Welfare and even National Security. Second, a government cannot be obligated to violate Human Dignity, as this would break down the fundamental respect for human rights and worth that a government must have.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Applebaum ’98 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Arthur Isak Applebaum, //Are Violations of Rights Ever Right?//, The University of Chicago Press, Ethics, Vol. 108, No. 2, pp. 340-366, January 1998]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">If one</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> wishes</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">not permissible.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What Applebaum is saying, is that if we view ourselves as having inalienable rights, then others view themselves in the same respect. If we wish to respect our own rights, then we must also respect others’ rights. Thus, the **Value Criterion** must be **Respecting Inviolability**. If the Affirmative can show that we better respect human rights and inviolability by affirming, then we “ought” to affirm.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONTENTION 1: NOT EXTENDING DUE PROCESS PROTECTIONS TO ACCUSED TERRORISTS PERPETUATES TERRORISM</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Institutions such as Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib, and tactics like targeted killing and drone strikes, only perpetuate terrorist organizations. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Mora ‘08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Alberto J**.** Mora, Former U.S. Navy General Counsel, June 17th //Statement of Alberto J. Mora//, Senate Committee on Armed Services Hearing on the Treatment of Detainees in U.S. Custody]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">But the damage...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Counsel in 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">By denying due process protections to accused terrorists and utilizing preventative detention and targeted killings, we only promote terrorism, which would directly affect the lives of US citizens.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONTENTION 2: RESPECTING INVIOLABILITY LIMITS THE GOVERNMENT’S TYRANNICAL POWER</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Parry ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[John Parry, //Terrorism and the new criminal process//, William & Mary Bill of Rights Journal 15.3: 795]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Detention, coercive interrogation...exclusive power.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What Parry is saying is that the means of depriving one of due process only contributes to a government’s “total and exclusive power.” Allowing a government to have “total and exclusive control” opens the possibilities of the creation of a tyrannical government. Due process serves as a check on governmental power; an American ideal that has long been supported throughout history. Indeed, by affording due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism, we can limit tyrannical power that, should tyranny become an issue, would affect the treatment of our own US citizens’ due process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONTENTION 3: THE US GRANTS DUE PROCESS PROTECTIONS TO ITS OWN CRIMINALS</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Due Process is an ideal that is applied to US criminals within society. However, terrorists should be no different, as they are essentially international criminals. Allow us to look to the situation of Timothy McVeigh as a prime example of the connection between US criminals and terrorists. Timothy McVeigh was an American domestic terrorist who bombed a Federal building in Oklahoma City, killing 168 people and injuring over 800. McVeigh hoped to inspire a revolt against what he considered to be a tyrannical federal government. He was convicted of 11 federal offenses and sentenced to death. This act of violence committed by Timothy McVeigh was the equivalence of a domestic terror attack, yet McVeigh received due process nonetheless. If we afford due process to domestic terrorists, such as McVeigh, then there is absolutely no reason that we should not extend due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">*Note: I know the contentions sucked, but I won most rounds on the framework. The night before the tournament, I just threw evidence into the case and made it work.</span>
==Negative== 

===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Security</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">I negate. Resolved: the US ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to its citizens.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Negative’s **Value** for this debate will be **Governmental Legitimacy**. Prefer this value because a government must fulfill its obligations in order to be considered legitimate. Thus, this value directly relates to this debate concerning what the US Government OUGHT to do.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The **Value Criterion** is **National Security**. Prefer this Criterion for two reasons. First, </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brooks ‘03 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Rosa Brooks, Associate Professor of Law, University of Virginia School of Law, //War Everywhere: Human Rights, National Security, and the Law of Armed Conflict in the Age of Terrorism//, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA LAW REVIEW, Vol. 153: 675]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Just as the...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">impermissible government acts</span>__****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This means that under a national security paradigm, acts such as the suspension of due process would be permissible. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Second, National Security is the foremost obligation of a national government.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hamilton ’87</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Alexander Hamilton, //The Necessity of a Government as Energetic as the One Proposed to the Preservation of the Union//, The Federalist Papers No. 23, December 18, 1787]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The authorities essential...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">of it is committed.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This will be critical to this debate, as it shows that National Security priorities supersede those of Constitutional Rights and any other government priorities. If the Negative can show that by extending due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism, we hinder the ability of the government to promote national security, then we must negate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Extending Due Process Protections Hinders the Ability of the Government to Utilize Preventative Detainment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Allow us to look to several incidents in which due process has released Guantanamo prisoners where they can pose a serious national security threat. One Guantanamo detainee, Abdullah Ghulam Rasoul, was transferred to Afghanistan in 2007 and then released by the Kabul government. According to reports, he is now the commander of operations for the Taliban in southern Afghanistan. Another detainee, Said Ali al-Shihri, was returned to Saudi Arabia in 2007 and is now reportedly a leader of al-Qaeda in Yemen.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">But more recently, Fox News released an article just one week ago in regards to the recent US Embassy attack that killed 4 Americans, stating, “One of the suspects in last week’s attack that killed the US ambassador to Libya and three other Americans is likely an Al-Qaeda member who was released from Guantanamo Bay in 2007.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Obviously, the only way to prevent instances such as these from occurring would be to suspend the right to due process and further implement a system of preventative detainment. This can provide us with two benefits to national security. First, it would prevent future attacks on Americans, such as the attack on the US Embassy in Libya, and second, it would increase intelligence gathering that can allow us to prevent future attacks and capture or eliminate greater high-level terrorists that pose a huge security threat.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 2: Extending Due Process Protections Hinders the Ability of the Government to Utilize Targeted Killing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">By affording due process to non-citizens accused of terrorism, we cannot utilize the benefits of implementing targeting killing missions. Aside from the fact that we are eliminating high-ranking terrorists, such as Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki, we also deter terrorism in two ways. First, they may deter lower-level members of an organization from taking on key leadership roles. In a terrorist organization, this may mean that once one leader or skilled individual is killed, others will refuse to step up for fear of a similar fate. Second, targeted killing could deter involvement in coordinating and planning attacks since terrorist chatter increases the probability they’ll be spotted (and attacked).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Additionally, Targeted Killing can limit Nuclear Development. Take, for example, Iran who is currently developing a large nuclear program. Israel has engaged in targeted killing and eliminated many of Iran’s top scientists through subtle car explosions and disappearances. This has, without a doubt, weakened Iran’s nuclear development. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">David ’02 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Steven R. David, Associate Dean at Johns Hopkins University, //Fatal Choices: Israel's Policy of Targeted Killing//, THE BEGIN-SADAT CENTER FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES BAR-ILAN UNIVERSITY , Mideast Security and Policy Studies No. 51. September 2002]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">There are a...attacks is degraded.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In this sense, targeted killing can be seen as protecting national security because it can prevent, or greatly retard the process of nuclear development in terroristic countries. However, we would not possess the ability to promote national security were we to extend due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Constitutional Legitimacy</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">I negate. Resolved: the US ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to its citizens.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Observation 1: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Due to the inclusion of the phrase "ought" in the resolution, we must debate an obligatory burden on the actor. In this case, the actor is the US Government. As such, the debate must focus on whether the US Government has an obligatory burden to extend or not to extend due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The **Value** for this debate is **The Legitimacy of Government**. Prefer this value because a government must fulfill its obligations in order to be considered legitimate. Thus, this value directly relates to this debate concerning the obligations of the US Government. Government Legitimacy derives from the perception that the government is abiding by its constitution. Thus, the **Value Criterion** is **Maintaining Constitutional Legitimacy**. Prefer this criterion for two reasons. First, </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Barnett ’03</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Randy E. Barnett, //Constitutional Legitimacy//, Professor of Legal Theory, Georgetown University Law Center, The Columbia Law Review, 103 Colum. L. Rev. 111-148, 2003]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Many constitutional scholars...</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">what it means.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In other words, undermining the Constitution desecrates the purpose upon which it was founded, an action which debases a legitimate government.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Second, because the US was created by the founding fathers with the foundation being the Constitution, our greatest obligation ought to be towards upholding the purpose of the Constitution. Even though alterations in the application of the Constitution are inevitable, the Affirmative needs to show how extending due process to terrorists is both necessary and does not undermine our constitution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">My sole contention is that Extending the Same Constitutional Due Process Protections to Non-Citizens Accused of Terrorism Undermines Our Constitution.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> The United States Constitution was created to establish a strong central government and define what rights are due to US citizens. However, if we extend the same constitutional due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism, we cheapen the rights of American citizens.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy ’04 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Andrew McCarthy, former Assistant United States Attorney, //Terrorism on trial//, Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 36.513: 521, 2004]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Principles</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and precedents...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> we aspire to.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Because we are undermining the rights of US citizens by extending the same rights to non-citizens accused of terrorism, we must negate.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Rawls AC=== 

I affirm.
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Value:** **Justice**, </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">JOHN RAWLS ’71 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Rawls, Harvard University, //A Theory of Justice//, 1971]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First: each person...</span>__****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">__open to all.__</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In essence, the Principles of Justice state:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">First, everyone must be afforded equal basic liberties in order for the action to be just.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Second, everyone must be afforded equal opportunity to pursue such basic liberties. If not afforded equal opportunities, the first principle of justice is undermined, and thus such an action is unjust.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hence, the **Value Criterion** is **Egalitarianism**. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1. Egalitarianism satisfies several systems of ethics, namely Deontology and Consequentialism. Deontology judges whether an action is justified based on the intention of such an action. Consequentialism evaluates the justification for an action based on the impacts of such an action. Egalitarianism can satisfy both of these systems, as it is both well-intended and the end result is an equality impact. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2. Egalitarianism is the only ethical system that affirms the dignity of beings equally, which, as Rawls explains, is a prerequisite to achieving Justice. If I can show that universal health care best supports an egalitarian view, then you must affirm.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Financial Barriers in the Current System Do Not Allow for Equal Distribution of Health</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Currently, financial barriers severely limit one’s ability to utilize health care. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NORMAN DANIELS</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Harvard University, Harvard School of Public Health, //Health-Care Needs and Distributive Justice//, Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 10, No. 2 (Spring, 1981), pp. 146-179]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Without universal health...health insurance.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A system that limits the ability of individuals to seek health care because they cannot afford it arbitrarily distinguishes between such individuals and does not allow for an assessment of equal basic liberties. Thus, a system which guarantees equality ought to be valued higher in order to truly achieve justice.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 2: Racial Discrimination in the Current System Does Not Allow for Equal Distribution of Health</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lesley Russell ’12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[John Curtin School of Medical Research, PhD in Biochemistry, Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation, Huffington Post, September 7, 2012]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Racial and ethnic...and die sooner.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">DANIELS 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Norman Daniels, Harvard University, Harvard School of Public Health, </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Justice and Access to Health Care</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2008]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aside from...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the U.S.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This sort of racial discrimination cannot support any kind of equality, and thus does not meet the equality standards established in Rawls’ Principles of Justice, meaning we ought to guarantee universal healthcare to eliminate racial discrimination in the current health care system.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 3: Universal Health Care Allows for Equal Opportunity in Society</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">PUNEET SANDHU </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Puneet K. Sandhu, University of California, Berkeley School of Law, //A Legal Right to Health Care: What Can the United States Learn from Foreign Models of Health Rights Jurisprudence//, 95 California Law Review 1156-1157, 2007]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The political ground...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">number of citizens.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thus, since Justice necessitates that individuals have equal opportunities and equal liberties in society, and universal health care is the only health care system which effectively maintains an egalitarian view of Justice, I urge an affirmative ballot.</span>

===Democracy AC=== 

I affirm the resolution.

Ought is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as “used to indicate duty.”

Because the actor under the resolution is the government, this duty is to incur to best consequences for society.

**Owen Harries**, of the Center for Independent Studies, writes,
**__“The ethic of responsibility__**__**...****must always be considered.”**__

By logical extension, the government must thus promote positive impacts.

The **Value** is **Societal Welfare** for two reasons.
1. Consequentialism
2. Gov't duty

**VC: Promoting Democracy**,
x-Stanford University
a system that ensures stable and equal social relations, equality among participants in a group decision making process, and economic development.

Empirically, Democracies are best able to secure the most benefits for their societies.

**Sean Lynn-Jones**, of the Harvard University Center for International Affairs explains,
1. ↓ human rights violations
2. ↑ prosperity due to ↑ in GDP
3. ↓ riots, gov't crises, assassinations
4. Democracy secures all other national interests

If I can show that guaranteeing universal healthcare engenders Democratic ideals, you would affirm.

**C1: A Lack of Universal Healthcare Inhibits Social Cohesion**

**Christian Tarsney**, of the University of Maryland, states,
__**“Universal health care might be good...****same political communities.”**__

Ultimately, this means that a lack of universal health care inhibits the cultivation of democratic ideals. Because the situation engenders negative outcomes under a democratic framework, the Government has a duty to rectify the issue. In fact, guaranteeing universal health care vastly increases the amount of individual participation in society.

**Norman Daniels**, of Harvard University, explains,
__**“The moral importance...****spheres of life.”**__

Thus, guaranteeing universal health care produces democratic benefits, which directly fulfills the government’s first obligation of guaranteeing the best consequences possible.

**C2: Universal Health Care Supports Growth and Expansion**

In a landmark six-part series on the uninsured, the Institute of Medicine compiled an extensive report on the “hidden” costs of uninsurance. The institute reached several conclusions.
1. uninsurance costs $65-130 billion annually
2. Medicare, Social Security, CJS cost more than they would w/ UHC due to higher expenses when ppl become enrolled in social programs
3. cost hurts community infrastructures and they suffer economically

Thus, a health care system which only drains on the economy cannot engender democratic ideals. Whereas, a comprehensive analysis of health care reform performed by the CEA shows that implementing a system of universal health care would result in an increase in real GDP, that being approximately 2% by 2020 and nearly 8% by 2030. To put it in terms of the judge and audience, this implies that income in 2020 would be approximately $2,600 higher than it would have been without reform, and that in 2030 it would be almost $10,000 higher. Such economic benefits engender democratic ideals, and thus the government has a duty to guarantee a cost-beneficial universal health care system.

Contention 3: Universal Health Care Promotes Equal Opportunity in Society

**Eileen Ray**, of Cleveland State University, in a comprehensive study of Communication and Disenfranchisement in relation to health issues, discovered,
__**“Some people, groups, and classes...****health concerns.”**__

Thus, those who have poorer health are more likely to be disenfranchised as a voter and would have no say in a democratic society. However, Universal Health Care solves this issue.

**Puneet Sandhu**, of the University of California, Berkeley School of Law, writes,
__**“Healthcare is instrumental for effective citizenship...greatest number of citizens.”**__

Because universal health care engenders democratic ideals in regards to equal opportunity to partake in political processes, the US has the duty to produce such outcomes and thus I affirm.

==Negative== 
I negate the Resolution, Resolved: The United States ought to guarantee universal health care for its citizens.

**V: Justice**, defined by Aristotle as “giving each their due,” as this is the framework to judge which obligations are due to a government’s citizens.

**VC: Preserving Individual Autonomy**

1. Kant-autonomy defines existence as human beings
2. autonomy allows for a person to desire a life and rights. Thus, it is the basis of any judgment of justice, morality, or societal welfare.

Observe
1. AFF needs to show where there is an obligation and where there isn't an obligation
2. positive consequences DO NOT define gov't obligation

**MY SOLE CONTENTION IS THAT TO MANDATE GOVERNMENT ACTION TO GUARANTEE UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE TO ITS CITIZENS VIOLATES INDIVIDUAL AUTONOMY.**
Modern economic markets are defined by individual action to promote one’s own status. Government intervention to guarantee universal health care violates the autonomy of those citizens who work to achieve economic welfare.

**ROBERT NOZICK ’74** [Robert Nozick, Harvard University, Anarchy, State, and Utopia, pg. 169, 1974]
__**Taking the earnings...****for another’s purpose.**__

When a government intervenes to provide all citizens with health care, people are forced to work for the livelihoods of someone other than themselves; a clear violation of their autonomy and right to self-ownership, because they are offered no choice in the matter. Even though universal health care may have certain conceivable benefits in particular situations, it is the negative position that to obligate a government to violate autonomy is unjust, because a government’s first obligation to its citizens is to respect their autonomy.

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Democracy AC=== 
same D framework as Nov-Dec, similar contentions
===Maximizing Net Benefits AC=== 
exactly what it sounds like
===Human Dignity AC=== 
respecting the dignity of criminals yeah!!!
===Orientalist AC=== 
prevent worst oppression
===Substance-Abuse Plan=== 
what it sounds like
==Negative== 
===Due Punishment NC=== 
Judicial Legitimacy
===Moral Agency NC=== 
Kant
===Util NC=== 
exactly what it sounds like
===Dual/Pluralism CP=== 
equal
===Elim Cap Punishment CP=== 
only eliminate capital punishment, but not to completely eliminate retributive focus
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==