[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC- NIB- (Made Some Changes--Fremont)== 
===Observation 1 – Lebron Stinson=== 
We begin this round by presenting the story of Lebron Stinson. Stinson lives in Chattanooga, Tennessee and is currently unemployed. He has realized something that many unemployed people across the nation know, the jobs are in one place, and he is in another. Without a car or proper access to public transportation, Stinson can’t get to those jobs. This article was written by Peter Goodman July 11th, 2012.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Unemployment Problem Includes Public Transportation That Separates Poor From Jobs, July 11th, 2012, __[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/11/unemployment-problem-public-transportation_n_1660344.html]]__)</span>
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- In the two months since he lost his job driving a delivery truck for a door company…. had transport, I’d be back at work by now. I know this."

===<span class="Underline">Thus the plan:</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by creating the National Infrastructure Bank solely for the purpose of public transportation. </span>


===<span class="Underline">Observation 2 – Jobs</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US federal transportation policy’s focus on a society that revolves around the movement of automobiles has disproportionately isolated the impoverished twice over </span>
**The Leadership Conference Education Fund 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity, March 2011)</span>
b. Transportation policy affects access to economic opportunity i. Current transportation policy fails to bridge the growing divide between… Those in rural areas often face challenges accessing jobs in rural areas or traveling to jobs in the urban core.

Removing the barriers to a functional public transportation sector will unlock $1 trillion of economic potential
**Donohue, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)</span>
Throughout America’s history, feats in infrastructure, like… Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are. Thomas J. Donohue is president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, the world’s largest business federation

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">By ignoring the benefit of investing in Public Transportation, the United States will doom millions of Americans to the same fate as Lebron Stinson. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">RAHMAN ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . “Another global recession?”. August 21. http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461)</span>

Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear… Therefore, <span class="Underline">we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession</span>.


The establishment of a National Infrastructure Bank addresses the isolation caused by the job deficit effecting 14 million Americans daily
**Tyson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]</span>

The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the jobs deficit, not the budget deficit…. Obama administration to reduce multi-year delays in the approval of infrastructure projects that would otherwise create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the next few years.


By putting Lebron Stinson back to work we have the opportunity to increase the health and welfare of the impoverished and middle class of the United States
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">John Iceland 12, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor, Sociology, Penn State, 2012 [Poverty in America, 2012 p. 48]</span>
There are several reasons why poverty continues to be a critical issue in the United States. First, the hardship that often accompanies poverty plainly has adverse… stimulates economic growth and raises average standards of living.


===<span class="Underline">Observation 3 - Solvency</span>=== 

The National Infrastructure Bank will leverage private – public investments to fund projects of regional and national significance directing capital to the most important uses
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rohatyn, 2011 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC, Brookings Institution, Council on Foreign Relations, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness” April 5, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585)</span>
<span class="Underline">While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make…</span> President <span class="Underline">Obama and Congress should take action promptly</span>.


The failing state of our transportation infrastructure is something that we can fix. The creation of a National Infrastructure Bank will allow for increased public investment in transportation infrastructure, leverage private investment, increase the share of money going to projects that need it, and make the current funding mechanisms easier and faster.
**Miller, Costa, and Cooper 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Progress and a student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute, Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Progress, and Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress. September 2012, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf|__http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf__]])</span>
Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy. Without highways, power… implemented by both industrialized and developing nations, while also encouraging the adoption of the best investment and planning practices at all levels.

As debaters we advocate a role of the ballot. The Role of the Ballot is to stand with the oppressed. As the oppressed suffering is tied with ours, we can’t ignore ways to prevent suffering. To do so otherwise means we become complacent about oppression and complicit with the perpetuation of oppression
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__May 1993__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Between genealogy and epistemology: psychology, politics, and knowledge in the thought of Micheal Foucault By Todd [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosopher]] Lemon Professor of Philosophy at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clemson_University|Clemson University]] page 5-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">What Lyotard wanted to study and to promote he called “paganism,” ..</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> beside them in theirs. It is a role of the walk-on, not the director.</span>

**To ignore the affirmative causes political paralysis which never leads to any action that is beneficial to the oppressed**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rescher </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">83 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nicholas. University Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburg. Chairman of the Philosophy Department. Director of the Center for Philosophy of Science. Honorary degrees from 8 universities on 3 continents. Doctorate in Philosophy from Princeton. “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the theory of Risk Evaluation and Management”.. University Press of America. P 39-40)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But in decision theory ...**l**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">**ie** </span>outside the realm of “real” possibilities.


We end our speech the way we began—with Lebron Stinson’s aspirations in an America with a current transportation policy creating roadblocks to reduce the job deficit

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'I WAS A PART OF THAT'</span>



For Lebron Stinson, time seems… find a job with fair pay and be productive.'"


===In some Rounds we take out the Rahman and Rescher Card and instead read (Where Rescher would be)=== 
We acknowledge the fact that our plan will not solve all oppression, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t advocate it. Our plan is a necessary step in the struggle for equality.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Martin Luther King Jr. 1957 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Give Us the Ballot, 1957)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mr. Chairman, distinguished platform associates, fellow Americans....</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and the sons of God will shout for joy." (//Yes sir, All right//) [//applause//] (//Yes, That's wonderful, All right//)</span>