[[toc]]
= = 
September-October
Affirmative
V- morality

Resolution questions difference between citizens accused of terrorism and noncitizens accused of terrorism

Neg must prove morally relevant distinction.

In the 21st century the notion of ‘society’ has been transformed beyond recognition by the growing transborder flows, and states can no longer preserve the illusion of being discrete and separate entities. Aas,


Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“The state and…stratifying global ordering.”

International focus on territoriality only exacerbates the problem allowing outsiders to outright ignore supposedly “internal” problems.
Gillespie, Thomas R. “Unwanted Responsibility: Humanitarian Military Intervention to Advance Human Rights.” Peace and Change, Vol. 18 No. 3, July 1993, pp. 219-246.

“A major component…a domestic matter.”

Today our very inability to clearly define the proper locus and scope of criminological and penal authority only bolsters injustice.
Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“Sharp distinctions between…war on terror.”

VC: recognizing the breakdown of the distinction between domestic and international legality

We must expand it to encompass more than just domestic issues or be rendered incapable to deal appropriately with national security threats.
Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“As boundaries between…the criminological discourse.”

Contention 1: Applying constitutional limitations on state power extraterritorially breaks down tensions between states. Rivlin,
Rivlin, Galia, “Constitutions Beyond Borders: The Overlooked Practical Aspects of the Extraterritorial Question” 2012


“the constitution may…its national borders.”

The constitution states that due process protections can be applicable to all persons.
David Cole (Georgetown University Law Center), Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?, March 2010, T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003)

“The fifth and…States including aliens.”

the denial of constitutional due process protections further entrenches the geopolitical mindset by increasing anti-American sentiments which deters international cooperation. [Gerard Fogarty [Colonel in Australian Army, U.S. Army War College] "Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror", Joint Force Quarterly. #39. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/jfq_pubs/1239.pdf]]</span>. 2012. ]

“U.S. prestige throughout…worldwide anti-Americanism.”

Cosmopolitanism solves nuclear war
Pogge, Thomas W. "Cosmopolitanism and Sovereignty." Ethics 103.1 (1992): 48-75.JSTOR. Web. 17 June 2012. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381495]]>.

"Under the current...adjudicated and enforced."
==Negative== 
Constitution NC
V- proper US legal policy

The constitution is binding on the US, so proving an inconsistency is sufficient to negate.

1C – there is a contradiction
Parrish, Austen L., “Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Nonresident, Alien Defendants.” Wake Forest Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 1, Spring 2006.

The case law … deepen as well



Aristocratic Radicalism NC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">As all life seeks to perpetuate itself and only itself, the ultimate foundation of normative claims rests in the will to power.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Schacht</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Richard –</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **__1973__**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“Nietzsche and Nihilism”, Journal of the History of Philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately Nietzsche has...is life itself</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Additionally, morality cannot be justified for its own sake, but only because it facilitates the development of human excellence.</span>



**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Carus</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Paul –</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **__1899__**. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“Immorality as a Philosophic Principle.” The Monist.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche is on...of a hiatus</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">However, morality which imposes obligations on the strong to serve the weak do not facilitate the development of excellence because they divert the excellent from their true purpose.</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robertson</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Simon –</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **__2009__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. “Nietzsche’s Ethical Revaluation.” Journal of Nietzsche Studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Leiter argues that...are capable of</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">VC: rejection of slave morality</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In order to reject slave morality, the government must be aristocratic. This allows for the development of higher culture and the cultivation of human excellence. Michalski,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Michalski “Nietzsche’s Aristocratic Radicalism” 2008</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche supports the...of political society</span>






=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Full Text Human Rights AC</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">I affirm. There are three conditions required for a proper ethical system. First, moral theories must non-arbitrary. Rawls writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">John Rawls. A theory of Justice. 1971. Cambridge Massachusetts. Belknap press</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Existing societies are of course seldom well-ordered in this sense, for what is just and unjust is usually in dispute. Men</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">[People] disagree about which principles should define the basic terms of their association. Yet we may still say, despite this disagreement, that they each have a conception of justice.</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">That is,</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> __they__ </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">understand the need for, and they</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> __are prepared to affirm, a characteristic set of principles for assigning basic rights and duties__ </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">and for determining what they take to be the proper distribution of the benefits and burdens of social cooperation.Thus it seems natural to think of the concept of justice as distinct from the various conceptions of justice and as being specified by the role which these different sets of principle, these different conceptions, have in common.</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> Those who hold different conceptions of justice can, then, still agree that institutions are just when no arbitrary distinctions are made between persons in the assigning of basic rights and duties and when the rules determine a proper balance between competing claims to the advantages of social life</span>__

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Any moral system which preferences certain groups of people over others is based upon arbitrary distinctions between groups. The only way to avoid arbitrariness is to not preference larger groups but rather to treat all people equally. Taurek writes:</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">John M. Taurek 1977 [PhD in Philosophy at NYU], “Should the Numbers Count?” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 6, No. 4 (Summer 1977), pp. 293-316 at pp. 305-306.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">In the trade-offsituation</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">aspresently conceived, all six persons are strangers to m</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">e</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">. I have no special affection for any one of them, no greater concern for one than for any of the others</span>____<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> Further, by hypothesis, my situation will be made neither worse nor better by either outcome. </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Any preference I might show, therefore, if it is not to be</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> thought </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">arbitrary, would require grounding. </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Of course this is precisely what</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> an impersonal evaluative judgment</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> of the kind discussed would do. It</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> would provide a reason for the preference I show should I give the drug to the five. But for the reasons given, I cannot subscribe to such an evaluation </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">of these outcomes. Hence, </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">in this situation I have</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> absolutely </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">no reason for showing preference to them as against him, and no reason for showing preference to him as against them. Thus I am inclined to treat each person equally by giving each an equal chance to survive.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Thus, respecting individual rights is the only cogent ethical system because it does not arbitrarily distinguish between moral subjects as the worth of each person is equally inviolable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Second, moral theories must be based on our practical identity as moral beings. This means that because our moral identity is the source of actions, we cannot adopt moral principles that would allow our own human identity to be violated. Korsgaard writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Valuing our Humanity.” Christine M. Korsgaard [Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University].</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">I believe that this point about the good generalizes to other standards: it does not make sense to judge human beings either superior to the other animals or better off than the other animals by standards that only apply to human beings.But if we decide it does not make sense to say it would be better for the pig if he were Socrates, does that mean we have to give up valuing our own ability to appreciate poetry? And – by the same token - can we value our own moral nature, either as something praiseworthy or as something prizeworthy, without thinking that a pig would be better, or perhaps better off, if he had a moral nature too? This question brings us back to the issues with which I began. In “Kant’s Formula of Humanity” and even more in The Sources of Normativity, I argued that</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> __there is a sense in which we must value our moral nature, that is, our practical identity as moral beings, because it is the condition of the value of anything else.__ </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">In The Sources of Normativity, in particular, I argued that we must value our moral nature as what I call a form of practical identity, a description under which we value ourselves and find our lives worth living. I claimed that </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">our moral identity, </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">which I took to be</span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> equivalent to our human identity,</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> is the ultimate source of reasons, because the moral law is the ultimate source of justification – a consideration must be capable of being embodied in a universalizable maxim if it is to count as a reason at all. So if we are to have any reasons, or to see anything as being valuable, we must value and identify with our nature as moral beings.</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> But how can we value our moral nature if we can think neither that it is praiseworthy nor that is prizeworthy to have it?</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Thus, deontology is the only ethical system, which can be justified by our practical identity because it explicitly prohibits the violation of individual rights and preserves the value of human beings. This also implies that the intention of action matters because justifications for actions stem from the intentions of those actions, not the actual results, so in order for something to be consistent will practical reason it also must be well intentioned.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Third: Ethical theories must be based upon agent neutral values because otherwise ethical evaluations cannot apply to all actors and are neither internally consistent nor universalizable, as ethical evaluations would vary from actor to actor. The inviolability of persons is an agent neutral value. Kamm writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">F.E. Kamm “Inviolability” Midwest Studies in Philosophy 20:1 (2008)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">If we are inviolable </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">in a certain way, </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">we are more important creatures than violable ones; such a higher status is itself a benefit to us. Indeed, we are creatures whose interests as recipients of such ordinary benefits as welfare are more worth serving. </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">The world is, in a sense, a better place, as it has more important creatures in it.32 </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">In this sense the inviolable status </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">(against being harmed in a certain way) </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">of any potential victim can be taken to be an agent-neutral value. </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">This is a non-consequential value. It does not follow (causally or noncausally) upon any act, but is already present in the status that persons have. </span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Ensuring it provides the background against which we may then seek their welfare or pursue other values. It is not our duty to bring about the agent-neutral value, but only to respect the constraints that express its presence.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Therefore only an ethical system that respects rights can effectively meet all three conditions for morality. Thus the standard is **respecting human rights.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">I contend that affirming respects human rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">First, Health is a basic good needed to use other rights. **Hurley** writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 7pt;">Jeremiah Hurley Journal of Medical Ethics Vol. 27, No. 4 (Aug., 2001), pp. 234-239 Published by: BMJ Publishing Group Article Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/27718732</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Health is ethically good to the extent that it contributes to the realisation of the ultimate end sought-happiness, capabilities and functionings, fulfilment of a rational life plan</span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">, etc. Among the various "goods" that contribute to the ultimate end, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">health is often accorded special ethical significance because it is necessary to achieving most intermediate and ultimate ends</span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">; ill health and injury are unpredictable and largely beyond the control of an individual (most of those who fall ill have done nothing knowingly to deserve or cause the ill health); and </span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">ill health represents a time of consider able vulnerability and dependency on others, giving society's response to those who suffer illness and injury particular ethical salience. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">This means that affirming allows for the use of rights and therefore comes before any negative turns. Further,</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Respecting human rights necessitates guaranteeing healthcare. **Hurley 2**:</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Health care, which is generally defined to include those goods, services and activities the primary purpose of which is the maintenance or improvement of health, is one of a complex array of factors that determine health. Health care </span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">as such is not intrinsically ethically valuable; it</span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">is ethically valuable because it contributes to health. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">From this it follows directly that the</span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">ethically justified distribution of access to and utilisation of needed health care is the one which generates the desired level and distribution of health.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">This means health care is necessary to provide other rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Second, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Absent healthcare disabilities can be crippling and prevent the exercise of autonomy. Batavia,</span>
//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">A I Batavia “Health care reform and people with disabilities” Health Affairs, 12, no.1 (1993):40-57 http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/12/1/40.full.pdf</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Some </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">37.3 million people</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> age fifteen and older </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">have</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> at least one </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[a] physical functional limitation</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (for example, walking, seeing, or talking) </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">due to a chronic condition.</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">4 Of these individuals, about twenty-three million people are limited or unable to conduct their major life activity (that is, working or attending school).5 Over 2.5 million people require assistance with the activities of daily living (ADLs) such as bathing, dressing, grooming, eating, transferring, and using the toilet; and </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">7.3 million require assistance in [activities of daily living]</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> ADLs and/ </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">or the instrumental activities of daily living</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (IADLs) such as meal preparation and housework.6 It is difficult to cull from current national surveys the number of people with chronic conditions that do not result in functional limitations. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Disability policy</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> is the branch of public policy that broadly </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">addresses the needs of such individuals</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, including the need for employment, education, access to public accommodations, personal assistance, telecommunications, income maintenance, housing, assistive technology, transportation, and health care.7 Thus, contrary to popular belief, </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">health care is</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> only </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">one</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, albeit important, of several </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">area</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">s </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of concern to disability policy.</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">8 Conversely, people with disabilities are one of several vulnerable populations that should be of substantial interest to health policymakers.9 Influenced by the independent living movement of the 1970s, </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a primary goal of disability policy</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> in this country </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">is to empower disabled people to live </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">independently and productively </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in their communities.</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">10 As it relates to health care, </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the objective </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">of disability policy</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> is to ensure that people with disabilities have access to the specific</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> high-quality </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">services they need</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> without compromising their ability to live independently and productively. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The inability of many people with disabilities to obtain affordable health coverage interferes with this goal by deterring them from obtaining gainful employment and by making them vulnerable to financial catastrophe.</span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[A single payer system would include the disabled and relieve those costs, allowing them to be included in the space of appearances. Batavia 2,</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Like the other approaches to national health insurance, the extent to which a single-payer system would meet the needs of people with disabilities depends primarily on how it is designed to ration care. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Single-payer systems tend to ration care </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">based upon a set of top-down rationing rules concerning who is entitled to specific services in different circumstances. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Such nonprice rationing can accrue to the substantial benefit of the disabled population if needed services are sufficiently covered and adequately compensated.</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Whether this would occur depends on the political clout of the disabled population. It is likely that </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a single-payer system designed</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> from the outset </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">with the input of people with disabilities</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> and their representatives </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">would include a benefit package and other provisions</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> adequate </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">to meet the basic needs of disabled people. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">What is less certain is whether these benefits would be maintained over time if the costs of the system escalate and there is a need to cut back. It appears likely that the political clout of the disability lobby would be overwhelmed by that of the general population and its perceived need for more generalized acute care services. The proposed Oregon Medicaid plan amendment offers an interesting case study of how services needed by disabled people could potentially be rationed in a single-payer system that needs to contain costs.29]</span>//

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">This means that affirming is necessary for the exercise of rights of disabled persons and therefore is necessary to act morally.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Finally, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Failing to provide healthcare arbitrarily harms portions of the population. Sachs</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Benjamin Sachs, The Liberty Principle and Universal Health Care, Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal, Volume 18, Number 2, June 2008, pp. 149-172 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press DOI: 10.1353/ken.0.0009</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">In Justice as Fairness, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Rawls </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">(2001, p. 174) </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">claims that “[medical] care falls under the general means necessary to underwrite . . . our capacity to take advantage of our basic rights and liberties</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">.” To understand how he reaches this conclusion, it is important to recognize that Rawls’s discussion of health care in Justice as Fairness occurs within a larger discussion of the index of primary goods. In defending the index, Rawls points out that it is derived from the idea of the basic capabilities of citizens. The basic capabilities are “the capabilities of citizens as free and equal in virtue of their two moral powers” (Rawls 2001, p. 169). Rawls goes on to say that it is these powers that define what it is to be a normal, fully cooperating member of society and that this conception of the citizen is paramount when specifying the equal rights and liberties. This conception of the citizen gives rise to a concern for citizens’ health, because </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">illness, if it is severe enough, prevents one from being a normal, fully cooperating member of society</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">. If, as Rawls says, the basic liberties are drawn up to fit a conception of citizens as normal, fully cooperating members of society possessed of the two moral powers, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">then illness jeopardizes citizens’ capacity to take advantage of their basic liberties.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> Rawls does not provide examples, but they are not hard to find. The right to vote for one’s representatives in the legislature is clearly suitable for an individual possessed of the second moral power: the capacity for a sense of justice. However, a severe enough illness could prevent one from exercising this right. This argument for why one should care about the fact of illness, although clearly in need of elaboration at various points—something Rawls never provides—is, I believe, basically correct. In this section, I fill out the contours of the argument, respond to possible objections, and sharpen the thesis. I conclude that it is not only true that health is of concern from the perspective of justice; it is also the case that the liberty principle cannot be upheld unless all citizens are provided with health care. I begin with a possible objection. The objection begins by noting that there are lots of things that people could use in taking advantage of their basic liberties. (I could use a computer—I </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">am </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">using a computer—to take advantage of my freedom of speech.) Surely, however, it is not the case that society ought to make sure every citizen has all of these things; even kennedy institute of ethics journal • june 2008 [ 154 ] more certainly, it is not the case that ensuring that every citizen has all of them is a matter of such importance that it ought to be handled at the level of the liberty principle. Why, then, should health care be one of the things that is so important? In response, it bears emphasizing that Rawls’s argument that illness jeopardizes citizens’ capacities to take advantage of their basic liberties is not to be confused with an argument emphasizing the impact illness has on the worth of the basic liberties. According to Rawls (2001, p. 149), “the worth . . . of these liberties, which is estimated by the index of primary goods, is not the same for all . . . . [S]ome have more income and wealth than others, and so more all-purpose material means for realizing their ends.” Justice as fairness does not guarantee the equal worth of liberty to each citizen; to the extent that one citizen is less wealthy or more ignorant than another citizen, the equal liberties will be worth more to the latter, and this is not unjust. Put simply, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">the worth of a liberty for a citizen varies with the means available to her to take advantage of it. By contrast, ill health is not a lack of means, but rather a lack of capacity. Justice</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> as fairness </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">demands that society strive to avoid situations in which some citizens lack the capacity to take advantage of their liberties. This capacity is necessary to underwrite each person’s status as an equal citizen</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">—something to which justice as fairness is committed. No such commitment is made to the equal worth of liberty.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Human rights require some non-arbitrary distribution of goods. Denying health care to a portion of the population is uniquely detrimental because not only does cause direct tangible harm to those people, but it does so as a result of salient features that are beyond their control such as race, class, sexual orientation, and genetics.</span>

Negative

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
FW must be applicable to government

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Government action requires a consequentialist and not philosophical framework. To focus on questions of justice is irresponsible. Brock </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">my point is...turn affect people</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">And Disagreements in the public sphere mean the government is obliged to maximize life, not just act on moral duties.</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;"> Goodin</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**public officials are...possible general rule**</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">standard is **maximizing expected utility.**</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Plan text: the United States federal government should adopt the Norwegian criminal justice system. I reserve the right to clarify. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">American drugs users fund Mexican drug cartels causing the drug wars between the cartels and government which kills thousands. **Nill ‘12**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">the bloody drug...the top ten</span>


====<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Drug wars will cause Mexico to collapse which will kill US readiness. **Webster ‘9**</span></span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The US Department...the United States</span>


<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Flashpoints exist across the globe. Only U.S. military readiness prevents escalation to full-blown war which would risk extinction. **Duggan ’97** </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">the world is...protect America's interests</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">And US prison gangs key to cartels smuggling drugs across the US border which is the major source of cartels revenue. **Webster ‘09**</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">American gangs have...states from Mexico</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Second, Relations between the prison gangs and drug cartels key to cartels outreach into the US. **Johnson’12** </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">prison gangs are...the US border</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The incentive of being fully rehabilitated into society has quashed prison violence in Norwegian prisons. **Riggio ‘12**</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The criminal justice...American supermax prison</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 2 is econ</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">The STEM field lacks workers.Education is the culprit. **Engler ‘12**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">according to a...technology and science</span>


<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">And, STEM productivity is key to economic growth. The manufacturing sector of the STEM industry historically has been the keystone factor during comebacks. **NAS ‘07**,</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(National Academy of Sciences with National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Medicine, 2007, “Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11463)</span>

==<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Stagnant growth causes global warming/water pollution/environmental damage. Sanders ‘90</span></span>== 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jerry Sanders, Senior Fellow of the World Policy Institute, ’90 (//Bulletin of Peace Proposals//, May)]</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Warming causes extinction. Henderson ‘06</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">[Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, 8-19-6 “Runaway global warming—denial” http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The Norwegian prison system offers vocational education to all inmates.1 Vocational education prepares people for STEM related positions. **Rich ‘11**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Motoko Rich. July 8, 2011. New York Times. Tough Calculus as Technical Schools Face Deep Cuts. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/10/business/vocational-schools-face-deep-cuts-in-federal-funding.html?pagewanted=all]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>











==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]