=IFLs R3= 
[[toc]]
====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 1 is NASA</span>==== 
**NASA’s new plan for cislunar spaceflight is __unsustainable__** **– it makes NASA look bad and goes drastically overbudget, forcing funding trade-offs – the certain enactment of the plan is key to correct this**
**Strickland 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John K. Strickland is a member of the NSS board of Directors and an Advocate with the Space Frontier Foundation Mr. Strickland has been an active member of space- and science-related organizations since 1961, when he joined the American Rocket Society as a student member. In 1975 he joined both the National Space Institute and the L-5 Society — the "parents" of NSS. He was the founder of the Austin Space Frontier Society and has served as its chairman from 1981 to the present. He created the Robert A. Heinlein Memorial Award for the National Space Society in 1988, (shortly after the author's death), and has managed the award from its inception. He also works on the design and production of the Von Braun Award. In 1988, Mr. Strickland was a founder of the NSS Chapters Assembly, and served as one of its officers. His involvement with both Austin environmental groups and CSICOP — a national group working for better science coverage and less pseudo-science in the mass media — has given him a unique perspective on such controversial issues as energy vs. environment. Since 1976, Mr. Strickland has produced articles for "The Humanist," "L5 News," "Ad Astra," "Space News," "Solar Power," and other local and regional publications. His articles have focused primarily on national space policy, access to space and space solar power. His creation of a slide show and talk in 1990, explaining and promoting space solar power to non-technical audiences, led to the publication of his first technical SPS article in 1995, and a second in 1996. He served as the director for science and space programming (about 50 events) at the 1997 LoneStarCon World Science Fiction Convention. He contributed a comprehensive chapter on energy systems in the book, "Solar Power Satellites - a Space Energy System for Earth," edited by Dr. Peter Glaser et al., and published by Wiley-Praxis in 1998. He since has contributed several additional technical papers and presentations to the Mars Society's 1999 convention, the Wireless Power Transmission Conference of 2001 and the World Space Congress in 2002. He is a director of the Sunsat Energy Council. He has also been a moderate Delegate to the Texas State Republican Convention in 2000, 2002, and 2004, where he facilitated the inclusion of pro-space items into the state platform. , “The cislunar gateway with no gate”, Oct 1 2012, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2165/1]], mtp]</span>
Once again, bureaucracy and politics seems to be trying to swap a silk purse
AND
before we have a rationally planned or efficient government-led space program.
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The plan </span>is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> key to stave off NASA collapse </span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Spudis 1 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon. “THE CASE FOR RENEWED HUMAN EXPLORATION OF THE MOON” [[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Bibliography/p/71.pdf]], Donnie) </span>
The history of the United States shows that only two kinds of big engineering projects
AND
an exciting, vigorous mission and paves the way to the planets beyond.

**The plan gives NASA an achievable mandate, that’s key**
**Spudis 11** ([[http://www.cislunarnext.org/uploads/2/9/6/0/2960628/cislunarnext.pdf]], Donnie)
Our national space program is in crisis The United States Space Program is going nowhere
AND
, our values and the societal paradigm of free markets, rule of la
**NASA is bleeding like a sieve—this will irreversibly collapse diplomacy and EU relations – a stable relationship is key**
**Vertesi 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Janet Vertesi is a sociologist of science and technology at Princeton University who has worked with NASA mission teams since 2006. Via the Op-Ed Project Public Voices Fellowship. “Lost in space? Cuts to NASA threaten innovation, diplomacy” [[http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/opinion/lost-in-space-cuts-to-nasa-threaten-innovation-diplomacy/13173/]], Donnie)</span>
Planetary scientists and space aficionados alike are up in arms over NASA’s 2013 budget,
AND
success stories like Cassini – the human investment – will be irrevocably lost.
**Great power war**
**O’Sullivan, 4** – vice president of the Mission Critical Networks business area, which includes all FAA programs, as well as the Alaska Flight Services Modernization and OASIS programs [March 31, 2004, John O'Sullivan, “Europe and the Establishment,” The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/article/europe-and-the-establishment-2608]
The report's starting point -- that U.S.-European relations are extremely important
AND
the maneuvering between a half-dozen great powers that led to 1914.
**And extinction from asteroids**
**Urias et al 96**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(COL (Sel) John M. Urias (USA) “Planetary Defense: Catastrophic Health Insurance for Planet Earth” [[http://csat.au.af.mil/2025/volume3/vol3ch16.pdf]], Donnie) </span>
As discussed in this paper, the development, testing, and deployment costs of
AND
a strategic weapon, a neutral element would help to alleviate such fears.
**Science Diplomacy prevents extinction**
**Sackett 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions” [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Imagine for a moment that the globe is inhabited by a single individual who roams </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__national and multi-national policy and funding frameworks to sustain these links.__
**Budget cuts threaten satellites that are key to disaster mitigation**
<span class="Author-Date">West ’06</span>
(Larry; “Budget Cuts and Mismanagement Place Environmental Satellites at Risk,” http://environment.about.com/b/2006/03/06/budget-cuts-and-mismanagement-place-environmental-satellites-at-risk.htm, 3/5, SO)
Budget cuts and cost overruns are threatening the current integrity and future existence of a
AND
that environmental satellites provide should place them higher on NASA’s list of priorities.
**Unchecked disasters cause extinction**
<span class="Author-Date">Sid Ahmed ‘05</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “The post-earthquake world”, Issue #724, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]</span>)
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.



====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 2 is Colonization</span>==== 
**Plan’s key to overall space colonization – the moon provides the model to go further and overcomes technical barriers**
**Spudis 3**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, Tony Lavoie is director of Space Systems Programs at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, “Testimony of Dr. Paul D. Spudis: Senate Hearing on "Lunar Exploration"”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10923]], mtp]</span>
A return to the Moon, with the purpose of learning to mine and use
AND
to crawl before we have to walk in planetary exploration and surface operations.
**Plan’s also key to go beyond the moon – it creates the necessary infrastructure to colonize Mars and beyond – water from the moon solves radiation**
**Spudis and Lavoie 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, Tony Lavoie is director of Space Systems Programs at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, “Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return”, Dec 19 2010, [[http://ssi.org/2010/SM14-proceedings/Mission-and-Implementation-of-an-Affordable-Lunar-Return-Spudis-Lavoie.pdf]], mtp]</span>
A transportation system that can access cislunar space, can also take us to the
AND
to reduce the needed mass launched from Earth by a factor of five.
**Space colonization prevents inevitable extinction from disease, space objects, nuclear and biological war, and improving tech**
<span class="Heading2Char">Huang 5</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “Spaceflight or Extinction”, cites Carl Sagan who was a professor of astronomy and space sciences at Cornell University, cites J. Richard Gott III who is a professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University, cites Martin Rees who is a professor of cosmology and astrophysics and Master of Trinity College at the University of Cambridge. http://www.spaext.com/)</span>
[If there are civilizations elsewhere in the universe,] Their eventual choice, as
AND
first sterile seas? The choice may depend on us, this century.

**Even if we don’t win any specific scenarios, probabilistically extinction is inevitable unless we get off the rock – now is key**
**Tierney 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Tierney, In 1993, J. Richard Gott III computed with scientific certainty that humanity would survive at least 5,100 more years. At the time, I took that as reason to relax, but Dr. Gott has now convinced me I was wrong. He has issued a wake-up call: To ensure our long-term survival, we need to get a colony up and running on Mars within 46 years, Mr. Tierney is also the author of The Best-Case Scenario Handbook (Workman Publishing, 2002), and the co-author, with Christopher Buckley, of the comic novel, God Is My Broker: A Monk Tycoon Reveals the 7 ½ Laws of Spiritual and Financial Growth (Random House, 1999). Prior to joining the Times, Mr. Tierney was a contributing editor to Discover and Health magazines, a staff writer at Science 81-85 magazine, a reporter for the Washington Star and the Bergen Record, and a free-lance writer for many magazines. His reporting took him to six continents and won awards from American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Physics and the New York Publishers Association, Cites Professors of Astrophysics and Peer-Reviewed Articles from Philosphers, “A Survival Imperative for Space Colonization”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/17/science/17tier.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0]], July 17 2007, mtp]</span>
In 1993, J. Richard Gott III computed with scientific certainty that humanity would
AND
extinction is the norm, you may as well try to be special.
====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Going to space is key to a peaceful mindset – prevents war**</span>==== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Krukin ‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1/1/2k8, Jeff Krukin, Award-winning leadership applied to space, suborbital aviation, and aero ecosystem strategic business consulting, executive director of the Space Frontier Foundation (SFF), IBM Systems Engineer at NASA’s Johnson Space Center, contributor to NASA’s space exploration plan and US Department of Commerce/Office of Space Commercialization strategic plan, “The Healing Power of Space (aka, “The Overview Effect”)” [[http://www.jeffkrukin.com/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=27]])</span>
If you aren't familiar with "The Overview Effect," it is "... the experience
AND
into our neighborhoods. I imagine you've never read anything quite like this.
**Magnitude comes before timeframe – their logic is based off of scope neglect**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>
There is an even more subtle reason why we are unlikely to take collective and
AND
for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.

**Claims of intervening actors are just a diffusion of responsibility – intervention won’t happen because everyone else will also buy their logic**
**Yudkowsky 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
My last bias comes, not from the field of heuristics and biases, but
AND
bystander, and ask that person to help - thereby overcoming the diffusion.

**Reducing existential risk __by even a tiny amount__ outweighs __every other impact__ — any risk they don’t solve means you vote aff**
**Bostrom 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-
AND
the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13]

**Research solves health risks and psychological effects**
**White and Averner ’01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ronald J. White: National Space Biomedical Research Institute and Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Maurice Averner: NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nature “Humans in Space” February 22, 2001; http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/mnmsmi/White%20and%20Averner%202001.pdf [Schaaf]</span>
Voyages of exploration will subject space travellers to three serious and related challenges: (
AND
risks may be reduced to an acceptable level through a vigorous research programme.

**Diet and exercise solve bone loss**
**Perrotto and Jeffs 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Trent J. Perrotto Headquarters, Washington, William Jeffs Johnson Space Center, Houston, “NASA Study Provides New Findings On Protecting Astronauts' Bones Through Diet And Exercise”, 12/29/2012, [[http://www.nasa.gov/home/hqnews/2012/aug/HQ_12-291_ISS_Bone_Density.html]], mtp]</span>
HOUSTON -- Eating the right diet and exercising hard in space helps protect International Space
AND
these processes are in balance, bone mass and density stay the same.
**All of your solvency deficits can be easily overcome**
**Boni 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Isabelle Boni, Science Marketing/PR Intern at Harris D. McKinney, Inc, “Biological and Psychological Effects of Human Space Flight”, April 24 2012, [[http://triplehelixblog.com/2012/04/biological-and-psychological-effects-of-human-space-flight/#sthash.OYgLer7q.dpuf|http://triplehelixblog.com/2012/04/biological-and-psychological-effects-of-human-space-flight/#sthash.OYgLer7q.dpuf]], mtp]</span>
With all these possible outcomes in mind, is it still worth it to send
AND
travel, which ultimately represents a crucial way to learn about our universe.

**Also, put away your Space-X arguments – plan is key to allow private companies to have economic access to cislunar space**
**Spudis 3**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, Tony Lavoie is director of Space Systems Programs at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, “Testimony of Dr. Paul D. Spudis: Senate Hearing on "Lunar Exploration"”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10923]], mtp]</span>
The "mission" of this program is to go to the Moon to learn
AND
and to the private sector, thus spurring economic investment (and profit).




====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>==== 
**Federal government investment in the plan key to lunar access and mining**
**Spudis 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, 2/9/10, SpaceRef.com, “The New Space Race,” [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376]], mtp]</span>
The goal of the VSE is to create the capability to live ON the Moon
AND
these questions and begin the process of creating a permanent cislunar transportation infrastructure.
**Certain and long-term investment is key – only it gets us out of the individual mission mindset and creates a sustainable space infrastructure**
**Spudis 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, “Develop Cislunar Space Next”, April 2012, [[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Bibliography/a/a40.pdf]], mtp]</span>
It is the mindset of the space program that needs rethinking – not the next
AND
this crisis to adopt a new approach to the problem of human spaceflight.
**Federal investment key – empirically proven**
**Oeftering 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard C Oeftering, “A Cis-Lunar Propellant Infrastructure for Flexible Path Exploration and Space Commerce”, [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20120008515_2012008553.pdf]], mtp]</span>
Developing technology infrastructures is an appropriate role for publicly funded investment. Public infrastructure investment
AND
investment in the technologies that make those resources available in an affordable manner.
==Plan Text== 
====The United States federal government should substantially increase its cislunar transportation infrastructure investment in the United States==== 
=1AC R5= 
====Same Colonization Adv, Plan Text and Solvency, New Adv==== 

====<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Contention 3 is He-3</span>==== 
**Plan key to lunar resource access**
**Spudis 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Paul D. Spudis is a Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008. In 2004, he was a member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of U. S. Space Exploration Policy and was presented with the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal for that work. He is the recipient of the 2006 Von Karman Lectureship in Astronautics, awarded by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics. He is the author or co-author of over 100 scientific papers and four books, including The Once and Future Moon, and (with Ben Bussey) The Clementine Atlas of the Moon, Tony Lavoie is director of Space Systems Programs at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, “What Do We Really “Need” From Space?”, Dec 29 2012, [[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/blog/what-do-we-really-need-from-space/]], mtp]</span>
If our goal is to “sail on the ocean of space,” we need
AND
is our first “offshore supply base” for our emergent space navy.

**Helium 3 on Earth is insufficient --- mining it on the moon will spur super-efficient and safe fusion power**
**Cooper 8**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bonnie, Ph.D. in lunar geology, professor at Lamar, has worked with NASA "The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement", pg. 377-379, Appendix H, “Helium-3”, OCRed, ZBurdette]</span>
One of the most interesting possibilities for lunar resource utilization is related to the future
AND
applications, and the utilization of outer space for the benefit of humankind.

**Helium-3 mining and fusion doesn’t cause pollution, and spills over to other space activities**
**Schmitt 4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Apollo 17 astronaut, October 2004, Harrison H., Popular Mechanics, “Mining the Moon,” vol. 181, no. 10, Academic Search Premier, JMP]</span>
A sample of soil from the rim of Camelot crater slid from my scoop into
AND
could make permanent habitation on the moon the next chapter in human history.
**This causes a transition to a nuclear fusion economy --- solves radiation and proliferation risks, public fears of nuclear power and prevents economic and environmental collapse**
**Kulcinski & Schmitt, with the Fusion Technology Institute in the Department of Engineering Physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison 2000**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (July 2000, G.L. Kulcinski and H.H. Schmitt, Fusion Technology Institute, “Nuclear Power Without Radioactive Waste – The Promise of Lunar Helium-3,” Presented at the Second Annual Lunar Development Conference, “Return to the Moon II”, 20–21 July 2000, Las Vegas NV, [[http://fti.neep.wisc.edu/FTI/pdf/fdm1131.pdf]], JMP)</span>

Observations on the Development of Fusion Energy in the 21st Century If one accepts the
AND
, and long lasting nuclear energy without nuclear waste in the 21st century.
**Nuclear waste stops evolution**
**Coplan, 6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Associate Professor of Law, Pace University School of Law (Karl S, “THE INTERCIVILIZATIONAL INEQUITIES OF NUCLEAR POWER WEIGHED AGAINST THE INTERGENERATIONAL INEQUITIES OF CARBON BASED ENERGY,” 17 Fordham Envtl. Law Rev. 227, Symposium, 2006) //DH//</span>
//By contrast, nuclear power generation waste impacts will last many thousands of years,//
//AND//
//to evolve. [[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=4a9f74e9d68358dde5b1da7c76fcc08d&docnum=33&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAB&_md5=b940f69f179ebb657dc94d1baf8c0fbd#n133|133]] The impacts of nuclear waste are thus "intercivilizational."//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Evolution prevents extinction from environmental collapse and climate change</span>**//
//**Hines 2/19**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sandra Hines, Based on a Study by University of Washington biologists, Feb 19 2013, “Mutant champions save imperiled species from almost-certain extinction”, [[http://www.washington.edu/news/2013/02/19/mutant-champions-save-imperiled-species-from-almost-certain-extinction/]], mtp]</span>//
//Species facing widespread and rapid environmental changes can sometimes evolve quickly enough to dodge the//
//AND//
//deterioration increases, there can be pronounced increases in the rate of extinction.”//
//**Economic collapse causes global war**//
//**Auslin, 9**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, [[@http://www.aei.org/article/100044]])</span>//

//As they deal with a collapsing world economy, policymakers in Washington and around the//
//AND//
//types of miscalculation and greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.//
//**Proliferation will cause global nuclear war**//
//**Taylor, 1**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html)</span>//
//Nuclear proliferation - be it among nations or terrorists - greatly increases the chance of//
//AND//
//, the small nuclear war could easily escalate into a global nuclear war.//

//**Independently,r<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> eliance on fossil fuels causes dangerous pollution and international conflict --- mining lunar resources solves</span>**//
//**Whittington, space policy analyst and author of**// **Children of Apollo//, 4**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (12/8/04, Mark R., USA Today, “World's next energy source may be just a moon away,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/2004-12-08-energy-source_x.htm]], JMP)</span>

Impact of fossil fuels Earth's energy needs are currently met, primarily, by fossil
AND
many presidential administrations and congresses, and costing tens of billions of dollars.

**Checks resource conflict and prevents extinction**
**Garan, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” [[http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/]], JMP)</span>

Resources and Other Benefits: Since we live in a world of finite resources and
AND
of exploration. The first step is a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.
**Air pollution causes Extinction**
<span class="Heading4Char">Salvador 7.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Lourdes Salvador, Writer and Social Advocate for American Chronicle. "Human Extinction," 4/14/07. Online. [TR])</span>
The most common pattern of macroevolutionary trends is extinction. In short "when a
AND
us that natural selection obviously doesn't always work" (Relethford, 2005).


=IFLs Octos= 
====**Read NASA and Colonization advantages, new scenarios on NASA, here they were:**==== 
**Resolving NASA budget crises and inefficiencies are key to small satellites – those allow for protection against cyber-attacks and space debris – plan solves**
**Reuters 2/13**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Reuters is Europe’s leading news agency – based off interview with the head of Orbital Science Corporation, “-INTERVIEW-Orbital impatient with progress on new US satellite plan”, Friday Feb 15 2013, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://news.yahoo.com/interview-orbital-impatient-progress-us-satellite-plan-201729098.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, mtp]</span>
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Orbital Sciences Corp worries that budget pressures and "old
AND
. (Reporting By Andrea Shalal-Esa; editing by Andrew Hay)
**<span class="Author-Date">Debris sparks US-Russia nuclear war</span>**
**Lewis 4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jeffrey </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">Lewis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**,** fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM). Graduaged //magma cum laude// from Augustana College with degrees in Philosophy and Political Science “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios” Center for Defense Information. July, 20</span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>
This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space
AND
is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>That causes escalation and extinction in thirty minutes**
**Mintz 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Morton Mintz, //write for the American Prospect]// February 26, 2001, “Tow Minutes to Launch”, The American Prospect, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Hair-trigger alert means this: The missiles carrying those warheads are armed and
AND
would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote.”
**Cyberattacks spark great power nuclear war**
**Fritz 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.
**Space budget cutting will end the GPS III, SBRIS and STSS**
**Dinerman 10** ( Taylor Dinerman is an author of space publications. His works mainly focus on the space activities of the military and civilians. Taylor Dinerman’s publications cover a large range of important space topics. The author Taylor Dinerman bio began in 1982 when he started writing for newspapers. He received his education in Britain, Switzerland, and the United States. For awhile he was actually a sales consultant for a company in Europe that represents high-end products such as Lindt Chocolates and Burberry. His career now consists of various publications which include The Wall Street Journal, American Spectator, and Ad Astra. He currently writes for the Hudson Institute in New York and is a part-time consultant for the US Defense Department. Dinerman is also looking for major candidates seeking office at the national level since he is a political advisor. He also contributes regularly to a weekly piece for Jeff Foust’s Space Review. His articles can be viewed at www.thespacereview.com. “Reorganizing Military Space Going somewhere or Orbiting Aimlessly?” [[http://www.hudson-ny.org/1613/reorganizing-military-space]], Donnie) 
While the Obama administration has been signaling that it intends to cut the Air Force
AND
America's enemies nor its people respond well to bloodless, uninspired management techniques.
**SBIRS prevents nuke war**
**Thompson 11** (Loren Thompson is chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute. “New Satellite Provides ‘Just-in-time’ Deterrence” [[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110613-sat-just-in-time-deterrence.html]], Donnie) 
It was a big relief to U.S. defense officials in May when
AND
is the only solution that can meet that need in a timely fashion.