[[toc]]
=Cites= 
===Aff: elijah.caddodebate@gmail.com=== 
===Neg: kyle.dockendorf@gmail.com=== 
=1AC - Grapevine and Greenhill= 
==Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for transportation infrastructure for the Defense Transportation System in and around its military ocean terminals.== 

==Advantage One is Strategic Mobility== 

**Global crises are inevitable – There will inevitably be international contingencies that will require rapid military responses**
Ward Wilson (former Fellow at the Robert Kennedy Memorial Foundation) 2006 “Rationale for a study of City Annihilations,” http://wardhayeswilson.squarespace.com/city_annihilation/
One of the characteristics of
AND
risk and rationality

**Infrastructure limitations can add almost 2 weeks to critical ammunition shipments – ensuring broadened transport capability is key to avoid strategic bottlenecks**
Paul Murphy (Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) 1999 “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314
V. Ammunition Port Restrictions

What throughput
AND
into a berth.

**These bottlenecks crush our military’s surge deployment capability –effective MoTs are pre-requisites to over 90 percent of our sealift capability**
VanHoosen 97 [Paul VanHoosen, Lieutenant Commander, February 7, 1997, “MILITARY OCEAN TERMINALS WHO NEEDS THEM?”, Naval War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA325154,
With these actions
AND
profile CINC customer.

**Err on the side of caution – overinvestment is better than underinvestment – otherwise we develop a false sense of security – hollows out our entire military capability**
Fogleman 94- MA in military history and pol sci, former chief of staff of the Air Force (Ronald R., “Reengineering Defense Transportation,” DTIC, Winter, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA528899)//mat

The ability of
AND
never have blossomed.”

**This is particularly true NOW – investment in our strategic mobility infrastructure is key to efficiency – acts as a force multiplier in the face of budgetary cuts elsewhere**
McNabb 11- retired Air Force general (Duncan J., “We Measure Success Through the Eyes of the War Fighter,” Air and Space Power Journal, Winter, http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a555500.pdf)mat

Strategic Context Demands
AND
enable global reach.


**This is key to overall deterrence and conflict de-escalation – we control ceiling on all war impacts**
Hickins 09 (COLONEL KENNETH, United States Army, March 30, 2009, “STRATEGIC MOBILITY: FORGOTTEN CRITICAL REQUIREMENT OF THE CONTEMPORARY OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT”, http://www.dtic.mil.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA494718/TS)
As I
AND
and strategic success


==Advantage Two is the Pacific== 

**Logistical superiority is key to USPACOMs effectiveness – otherwise the US will be overwhelmed in the theatre with regional contingencies**
Keating 09 [Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM, March 19, 2009, “ STATEMENT OF ADMIRAL TIMOTHY J. KEATING, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND POSTURE”, PACOM, http://www.pacom.mil/web/pacom_resources/pdf/19MAR09%20PACOM%20SASC%20Posture%20Statement.pdf, DMintz]

Advocacy of programs
AND
multi-nation operations.

**Military Ocean Terminal infrastructure upgrades are critical to USPACOM effectiveness**
Fraser 12 [William Fraser, February 28, 2012, “Statement of General William Fraser, USAF Commander, United States Transportation Command Before the Senate Armed Services Committee On the State of the Command”, United States Transportation Command, http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2012/02%20February/Fraser%2002-28-12.pdf, DMintz]

Infrastructure improvement projects
AND
the Pacific Theater.

**Otherwise we will be completely absent in the pacific-logistics are key**
Gulledge and Keating 10 [Jay Gulledge, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville, Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM, 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345, http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf, DMintz]
*All text is from Timoth y J. Keating

The instrument of
AND
success in the region.

===Two Impact Scenarios=== 
=== === 
====**First is South China Sea**==== 
=== === 
**US maritime deployment credibility and strength is key to prevent war in the South China Sea – key to force peaceful cooperation**
Cronin and Kaplan 12 [Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Robert D. Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, January 2012, “Cooperation from Strength The United States, China and the South China Sea”, Center for New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_CooperationFromStrength_Cronin_1.pdf, DMintz]

There is an
AND
set of rules.

**The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts**
Straits Times 2k (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)

The high-intensity
AND
destruction of civilisation.

====**Scenario Two is Korea**==== 

**North Korean conflict is inevitable – having the capability to project forces is key to prevent conflict**
Chi-dong 12 [Lee Chi-dong, June 8, 2012, “NK proliferation threatens both U.S. and China: Panetta”, Yonhap, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2012/06/08/52/0301000000AEN20120608000400315F.HTML, DMintz]
The United States
AND
that," he said.

**Korean war goes nuclear**
De Luce 10 [Dan de Luce, November 25, 2010, “War with North Korea Poses Nightmare Scenarios” AFP, http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/global-filipino/world/11/25/10/war-north-korea-poses-nightmare-scenarios]
A full-blown
AND
first nuclear war.

==Advantage Three is Iran== 

**Highest probability for conflict – lack of dialogue means miscalculation is likely**
Bennett2012– (John T., veteran national security correspondent “U.S., Iran Lack 'Dialogue' to Avoid a Costly Miscalculation” http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/01/31/us-iran-lack-dialogue-to-avoid-a-costly-miscalculation)

U.S. and
AND
administration's Iran policies.

====**Scenario 1: Iranian Hegemony**==== 
=== === 
**US naval presence key to deterring Iranian primacy**
Singh 2012 – Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” January 3, 2012, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf)

Even if
AND
Tehran think twice.

**Iranian hegemony causes regional nuclear war**
Ben-Meir 2007 – Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/
NEW YORK, Feb. 6 (UPI) –
AND
its nuclear program.

==== ==== 
====**Scenario 2: Strait of Hormuz**==== 
=== === 
**Perception of quick response ability is key to deter Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz**
Kagan 2012 - Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
(Frederick W., “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”
January 4, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104)ALo

Iran's threat to
AND
and dangerous provocation.

**Even short term Hormuz closure causes global economic disruption and oil shocks – no other regional oil transport can check.**
Blanche 2009 (Ed, “Flashpoint Hormuz: US and allies brace for trouble in the choke-point Strait of Hormuz, gateway to the gulf, as regional tension escalates” The Middle East//, August-September 2009, Gale)

The strait is
AND
17 to 37 days.


**Continued dependence and oil shocks will result in great power conflicts and rapid warming. This independently makes US-Sino war inevitable─**
King 8 [Neil King, Jr. “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series. July 2008. http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]
Many commentators in
AND
could turn nasty.

==Contention Two is Solvency== 

**Military Ocean Terminal usage is ramping up now – uncertain funding will hamstring ammunition transports**
Keating and Sommerhauser 12 (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf

Ammunition port workload
AND
, of course, uncertain.

**Current funding structure guarantees rampant price volatility - Creating a stable funding structure for ammunition port infrastructure can prevent it – ONLY the military can solve**
Keating and Sommerhauser 12 (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf,
Here we set forth criteria to evaluate prospective port funding arrangements (appropriation,
working capital fund, some hybridization thereof).
One criterion we
AND
government operated depots.3

**Transportation infrastructure to Military Ocean Terminals is necessary to ensure efficient response times and prevent logistical nightmares**
HDR 04** (HDR Engineering, global firm providing architecture, engineering, consulting, construction and related services, “Economic Feasibility Study for the Restoration of the Wallace to Castle Hayne Rail Corridor and Associated Port/Rail Improvements,” North Carolina Department of Transportation Rail Division, February 2004, http://www.bytrain.org/quicklinks/reports/WtoWEconomicStudy.pdf, Sawyer)
5.5.5 Military Ocean Terminal
AND
benefit in the analysis.
=1AC Changes - St. Mark's Sophomore Hoedown= 
==**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Plan: The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase its investment in Military Sealift Command and </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command for Defense Access Roads and railways to and from its military ocean terminals.</span>**== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention One is Logistics (name changed)</span>== 
The Wilson and Hickens cards were removed. These cards were added:
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Navy Logistics is everything that supports and is necessary to naval operations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Applegate 06 </span>**[Keith A.;, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, Professor at naval postgrad school; “Naval Expeditionary Logistics: <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>A Handbook for Complementing and <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Supporting Land Forces”;http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA457829]//JJ 
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A number of definitions can be found for “expeditionary logistics” </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> planning and execution.</span>


**MSC is key to naval agility**

**Buzby 12** Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy Commander, Military Sealift Command (Mark H., “S•E•A•L•I•F•T: The U. S. Navy’ s Military Sealift Command”, March 2012, http://www.sealiftcommand.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Sealift-2012-03.pdf) RaPa



While DOD is looking at significant budget cuts 
...
missions are headed our way



Everything else from the 1AC is the same (besides removal of the North Korea scenario from the Pacific advantage), plus this advantage:
==**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention Four is Arctic</span>**== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px;">Arctic conflict is likely – trade ties don’t check and Russia’s nationalist interests outweigh their defense.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px;">Zellen 2011</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> (Barry S. “Cold Front on a Warming Arctic” United States Naval Institute. Proceedings 137. 5 (May 2011): 45-49, ProQuest)//ALo</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">In its sector of the Arctic</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">...</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">challenging mission of securing the Arctic. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px;">Military readiness key to prevent arctic resource conflict – alliances don’t check.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px;">Goldenberg 2011</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> – US environment correspondent (Suzanne, “Prepare for Arctic struggle as climate changes, US navy warned: Climate change could upset the delicate security balance in the Arctic, warns National Academy of Sciences report” Thursday 10 March 2011, </span>[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/10/arctic-struggle-climate-change]]<span style="color: #000000;">)</span>

America urgently needs to build up its military readiness in the Arctic 
...
strategic circles about the security implications of climate change.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Escalates to nuclear conflict with Russia.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wallace & Staples 2010</span>** *****Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia **President of the Rideau Institute (Michael and Steven, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010, [[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf|__http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf__]])

The fact is, the Arctic
...
the Arctic because of climate change.” 62 


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">US-Russian nuclear war causes extinction – outweighs on timeframe and magnitude.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Helfand and Pastore 2009</span>**(Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)
President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled
...
weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. 

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]