[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

V: M


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Morality must be based in physical conceptions about our mental states.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5px;">(David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5px;">"In the middle... those physical antecedents."</span>

Greene defines our mental states.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5px;">(Greene, J.D., Nystrom, L.E., Engell, A.D., Darley, J.M., Cohen, J.D. (2004) The neural bases of cognitive conflict and control in moral judgment. Neuron, Vol. 44, 389-400.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5px;">"In our more recent...high-level cognitive function."</span>

Consequentialism links back to epistemology through experience.

Thus the standard is consequentialism.

I contend that not giving terrorists due process increases terrorism.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Express Tribune, July 1, 2012, “US Drone Strike Kills Six Militants in Pakistan: Officials” </span>
"There has been...every four days."

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Stephen Lendman [renowned author and Research Associate of the Center for Research on Globalization (CRG). Has written extensively on war and peace, social justice in America and many other national and international issues. Recipient of a 2008 Project Censored Award, University of California at Sonoma.] Remote Control Killing Like Sport. June 15, 2011.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">"Further, beyond targeted... consequences are incalculable."</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sajjad Shaukat [Journalist for </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[@http://www.newscenterpk.com/conspiracy-to-denuclearise-pakistan/|NewsCenterPK]]] “[[@http://www.newscenterpk.com/conspiracy-to-denuclearise-pakistan/|Conspiracy To ‘Denuclearise’ Pakistan]]”, August 22, 2012, </span>
"Brave personnel of Pakistan... tight security arrangements."

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The Asian Tribune, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">Asif Haroon Raja is a retired Brigadier from the Pakistan Army and the author of several books. He is an analyst on security and political matters for the PakTribune, a Pakistani News Service.</span>
"Total drone strikes... 22000 innocent civilians."

Raja 2
"Among the worst... and American officials."

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The Lugar Surven on Proliferation Threats and Responses, Richard G. Lugar, United States Senator for Indiana, Chairnman of Senate Foreign Relations Committee, June 2005</span>
"The median estimate... or fissile material."

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001.
</span>
"The bitter disputes... by checklist, by rote."

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nick Bostrom, PhD and Professor at Oxford University, March, 2002 [Journal of Evolution and Technology, vol 9]</span>
"Previous sections have... our cards right."


==Negative== 

The standard is maintaining morality's value as an evaluative system.

Ought implies can.

1. People would be arbitrarily deemed moral or immoral.

2. Infinite number of unfulfillable ought statements.
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bernard Williams, </span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria-Italic; font-size: 12pt;">Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy </span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(1985), 77‐78.</span>
"Any form of consequentialism... on someone else."

Extend is to make available (Merriam Webster)

<span style="background-color: #fefefe; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">David Cole [Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center], 2003, or March 2010, “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?” Georgetown Law, The Scholarly Commons, </span>
"Are foreign nationals... the constitutional rule."

Cole 2
"The constitution does... to 'the people.'"

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]