<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>














For additional questions, cites, etc. email jnestrada98@yahoo.com
=<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Structural Equality</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We begin with a writing that illustrates the victims of our politics - poverty is an apocalyptic, yet also strangely invisible landscape hidden from the decadent, jazzy splendors of Bourbon Street.</span>**
//Abramsky 12//<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Sasha, a //Nation// contributing writer, is the author of several books, including, most recently, //Inside Obama’s Brain//, //Breadline USA// and //American Furies.// His next book, //The American Way of Poverty//, will be published by Nation Books in the fall."The Other America, 2012: Confronting the Poverty Epidemic," http://www.thenation.com/article/167564/other-america-2012-confronting-poverty-epidemic) </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 12px;">//J.N.E//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">At a moment when</span>**__...__** **__the rest of the day__**.”//

//**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">America is a violent nation living in Structural Violence - kind that kills more than all wars combined.</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It has often been observed that America... throughout the world." [Gilligan, p. 196</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Poverty is the root cause of every impact</span>**//
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Rice 06</span> //(<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Susan, Senior Fellow at Brookings “The threat of global poverty”, The National Interest, March 1st 2006, </span><span class="wikigeneratedlinkcontent">[[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2006/spring_globaleconomics_rice.aspx%29|http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2006/spring_globaleconomics_rice.aspx)]]</span>//J.N.E
//<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">When American s see t...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and combat transnational threats.</span>//

<span style="margin-left: 0in; mso-list: l0 level4 lfo1; text-indent: 0in;">**Current modes of debate revolve around only visible forms of violence – this leads structural poverty’s invisibility and inevitability. Only by adopting an inclusionary approach where we incorporate those affected by transportation inequality can we end the invisibility of Structural Violence.**</span>
//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Winter and Leighton '99 (Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Finally, to recognize the...empower citizens to reduce it</span>//

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure for transportation in low-income areas in the United States.**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Only through the use of an inclusionary approach can the plan solve</span>**
//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Setboonsarng, 2006</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Sununtar, 18 Apr. "Transport Infrastructure and Poverty Reduction." Adbi.org. Asian Development Bank Institute, 18 Apr. 2006. Web. (</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.adbi.org/files/2006.04.rpb21.transport.infrastructure.poverty_000.pdf__]]</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)]</span>__//

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Inability to incorporate the voices of the oppressed only ensures co-option by elites and failure - the 1ac is a pre-requisite to authentic political action.</span>**
Freire 70//<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Paulo, Brazilian educator, philosopher, and influential theorist of critical pedagogy, “Pedagogy of the Oppressed,” Pg. 92-97) </span>//J.N.E
//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Only dialogue, which requires critical thinking</span>...generative themes are found.//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore the Role of the Ballot for this debate is to endorse and foster a political discussion emphasizing and incorporating the voices of the oppressed people affected by transportation infrastructure.</span>**


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The only ethical demand of the privileged body is the infinite ethical obligation to the Other; we all exist at the expense of those suffering. Our ethic is “first philosophy” that comes before anything else - it not only conditions all political practices, but is a pre-requisite to any form of philosophy.</span>**//
Dauphinee 09//<span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin;"> (Elizabeth, “Critical Theorists and International Relations,” Pg.: 235-245, Elizabeth Dauphinee </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: AdvOTb343a17f; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">is Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at York University. She is the author of </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin;">The Ethics of Researching War: Looking for Bosnia </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: AdvOTb343a17f; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">(Manchester University Press, 2007) and has published articles in </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin;">Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Security Dialogue</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: AdvOTb343a17f; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">, and </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin;">Dialectical Anthropology</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: AdvOTb343a17f; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">.) </span>J.N.E//
//While contemporary philosophers will be interested...that this is their primary focus.//

//**The sheer act of interrogating the contours between subjective and objective violence is key to solve the invisibility of structural violence - the root cause of exploitation and oppression. Any other method of communication fails to identify the root of the problem and makes error replication inevitable.**//
//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Howie 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">(Luke, Department of Behavioral Studies, Monash University, member of the Global Terrorism Research Centre, International Journal of Zizek Studies Volume 5 Number 2, “They Were Created by Man … and They Have a Plan: Subjective and Objective Violence in Battlestar Galactica and the War on Terror” pg. 2-4) </span>//J.N.E

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Don’t buy one shot extinction claims - their forms of fear mongering political discourse only re-inscribe systems of status quo domination, and authoritarianism. They become like the zombie, they view everything for sole gain. Our 1AC reclaims the debate space from the zombified forms of scholarship that have created structural oppression.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Giroux 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">(Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 1 June 2011, “Zombie Politics, Democracy, and the Threat of Authoritarianism - Part I”, [[@http://www.truth-out.org/zombie-politics-democracy-and-threat-authoritarianism-part-i/1306932037]]</span>

**Linear policy predictions are simply impossible**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Sa, 04 – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In many cases... governed by the same causal relationships.</span>

**This is an independent reason to vote aff – we must embrace transformation through chaos**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ankor 9</span> – <span style="font-size: 12px;">Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel, pp. 139-141, [[@http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When events without assignable...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">encounter is synonymous with Badiou’s point of rupture with respect to being.</span>

<span style="margin-top: 0in;">**Catastrophe scenarios make policy fail – reduce their probability to zero.**</span>

//<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">Rescher, ’83</span>// (Nicholas Rescher, 1983, Professor of Philosophy, University of Pittsburg, __Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management__, University Press of America, p. 39-40)

But in decision theory...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of “real” possibilities.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Great Power Wars are obsolete</span>**
//Tepperman 9//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">(Jonathan, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 [Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th,2009 [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html]]] </span>//J.N.E


=<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2ac Misc.</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">States</span>== 


<span class="Heading4Char">**States can't solve**</span>

//Schank 12//<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Joshua Schank President & CEO Eno Center for Transportation, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and provides professional development opportunities across the career span of transportation professionals. [[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The role of the federal government...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> distinct from the right to interstate and intrastate travel.</span>



**The idea of devolution producing innovation and protecting liberty is a romanticized delusion. States protect parochial interests and respond only to interest groups which serve to subjugate minorities thus re entrenching structural violence.**

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cashin, Georgetown University Law Center, 99</span>

(Sheryll, Associate Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Empowerment Zones, Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), “Federalism, Welfare Reform, and the Minority Poor: Accounting for the Tyranny of State Majorities”, Columbia Law Review, Vol. 99, No. 3 (Apr., 1999), pp. 552-627, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1123518]], Accessed: 29/06/2009)

The idea that states are... can be subjugated by political majorities in ways incompatible with sound welfare policy.105



**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The states are the root of the structural inequality problem, only federal guidance can solve structural inequality</span>**


//Kahn 3// (Mafruza Khan, Corporate Research Project at Good Jobs First,“Missing the Bus How States Fail to Connect Economic Development with Public Transit” P.1 [[http://www.goodjobsfirst.org/sites/default/files/docs/pdf/bus.pdf]])

**__A 50-state survey ...__****__off the public transit grid.__**



**The massive transportation cuts at state levels lead to the oppression we highlight in the 1AC**

//TFA 09// (Transportation for America, Institute to improve national transport, “Stranded at the Station: Mapping the Transit Funding Crisis “ [[http://t4america.org/resources/transitfundingcrisis/]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WITH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ...</span>the entire network.”

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nuclear War Good/Spark</span>== 

**Nuclear war’s inevitable**
//Hellman 1// – Professor of E Engineering at Stanford (Martin E., “Nuclear War: Inevitable or Preventable?” http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/hellman.html)

__Every day, the United States depends on...____**We cannot continue on our present course forever.**__

**Nuclear war is survivable**
//LFTR 09//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Lifeboat Foundation Technology Research Think Tank, “dedicated to encouraging scientific advancements while helping humanity survive existential risks” Brian Wang MA “The Science of Nuclear War Effects and Battlestar Galactica” http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/02/nuclear-war-effects-and-battlestar.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Executive Summary on Nuclear War 200 million megaton o__f...__</span>__firestorms in every city hit by a nuclear bomb.__

**Only through nuclear war can we realize our destructive potential and further the pursuit of equality preventing all future wars and environmental destruction.**
//Zimmerman 87//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Michael E. Professor of Philosophy at Newcomb. “Anthropocentric Humanism and the Arms Race” </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today we are faced with facts and __...__</span>__Earth-co-creators of the cosmic order.__

=<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Taoism</span>=== 

**Death and misfortune are inevitable. __Plans__ to fix the world are rooted in an egotistical desire for management and control that is the root cause of all suffering and violence.**
**__Slabbert ’01__**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher “Tao Te Ching: Qualities of Compassion: How to Deal With Suffering,” </span><span class="InternetLink">[[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm|__http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm__]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>
//__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">If you open yourself...</span>__//__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> damage we will do.</span>__

**The alternative is to take no action to create desired ends—this is no mere resignation but rather an acceptance of the notion that we are created out of a combination of movements and will be part of a further transformation after our deaths**
**__Kirkland ’96__**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Russell, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, “The Book of the Way,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Great Literature of the Eastern World</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span><span class="InternetLink">[[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf|__http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Specifically, __the Tao__ is humble__...__ __thwart its unceasing operation.__</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cap K</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Capitalism is collapsing now. Only by realizing that the world is also adopting a revolutionary mindset can we create a society outside of capitalism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zizek 04—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology in Ljubljana [Slavoj, “Revolution at the Gates”, p. 259-260]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As Deleuze...of its own truth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Infrastructure projects are the epitome of consumption – infrastructure supports market consumption by generating collective energy for time economies and growth. The plan falls in reliance to capitalism, making the stranglehold tighter.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Connolly 12 (William E, Krieger-Eisenhower Professor at Johns Hopkins University where he teaches political theory, "Steps toward an Ecology of Late Capitalism," Theory and Event Vol. 15 Issue 1, 2012, Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Today, perhaps the initial target...market regulation, and citizen activism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Capitalism results in endless war and inter-state competition—impact is nuclear annihilation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Callinicos 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Capitalism has not changed its spots...‘the point, however, is to change it.’ If Marxism is correct, then we must act on it. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And you have an a-priori ethical obligation to reject capitalism. There may be some things worse than death, but you will never know because capitalism makes its victims anonymous.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zizek and Daly 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, page 14-16</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this...Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The alternative is to do nothing. Refusal to take action breaks down the pseudo-activity that maintains capitalism and steers away from past Communist failures</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zizek 08—Senior Research @ Institute for Social Studies-Ljubljana [Slavoj, Violence, p. 207-217]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Mutatis mutandis, the same holds also for large, organised collective violence... most violent thing to do.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">China Funds</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government _ with those funds.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Richter, ’11 – Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Many Americans might be surprised to hear...hope that outcome can be avoided.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Every dollar spent by China on US Infrastructure decreases the risk of dollar dumping</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Reuters 2011 – largest news agency in Europe, (“China may channel reserves to U.S. infrastructure –minister”, Reuters, December 12, 2011,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Dec 2 (Reuters) -</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [[http://www.reuters.com/places/china|China]] may channel...procurement policies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Chinese bond-selling results in global financial panic and crushes the US economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Wharton 9 – Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, (“Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” 9/2/09, [[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332)//JKahn]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As the global economy ...and other dollar-denominated reserves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Bearden 00– Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists¶ [T. E., “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” Space Energy Access Systems, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">History bears out that desperate...at least for many decades.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Disads</span>== 
=<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Past Strategies</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Stony Point</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Two vs Westwood WC (Disabilities)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - Death Good K, Inflation, States, Federalism, Cap, China Funds, Maintenance T, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - China Funds</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Four vs Westwood WN (Disabilities)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - T Substantial, T Maintenance, Speaking for Others K, World Bank CP, Cap K, CTBT Ptx</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - Speaking for Others, Cap K</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Bowie</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round one vs Dripping Springs (Tubercles)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - T Maitenance, China Funds, Tao, Cap, States, Federalism, Case on Peak Oil/Econ</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - China Funds, T, Case</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">UIL District</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Two vs Westlake (Inland Waterways)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - China Funds, Tao, PTX, States/Fed, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - China Funds</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cedar Ridge</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Two vs Westwood (HSR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - PTX, China Funds, States/Fed, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - China</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Three vs Midway CS (Ablenormativity/narratives)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - T categories, T Substantial, T Capital Expenditure, Taoism, China Funds, Pragmatism Key</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - T Capital Expenditure, China Funds, Condo</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Colleyville</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Two vs Blue Valley (Dredging)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - Normativity, Taoism, China Funds, Immigration Reform, T Maitenance, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nr - Taoism</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round Four vs Barston (Infrastructure Bank)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1nc - Cap, Normativity, China Funds, Immigration Reform, T Expenditure, Case</span>
2nr - Capativity (Cap discourse makes actual change, they don't)

==Akins== 
Round One vs Hendrickson (Port Security w/ Cocaine)
1nc - Legalize Cocaine CP, States/Fed, Cap K, China Funds CP, Immigration Reform, Normativity
2nr - China Funds CP/Condo Good

Round Three vs Hendrickson (Road to Nowhere)
1nc - Framework, T Categories, Inherency, Taoism, Fetish Turn, Democratic Talk Turn, Mao K, Ableist Discourse K, Spending DA,
2nr - T Categories, Fetish Turn

==Berkeley JV== 
Until Finals every round was China Funds CP, Immigration Reform, States/Fed, T, Cap or Death Good. Every 2nr was China Funds CP.

Finals vs Highland Park High School (Bicycles/Right to the City)
1nc - Wheelchair CP with Narratives, China Funds CP, T Increase, Taoism K, Case: Fetish Turn, Democratic Talk Turn, Ruralism Turn, Solvency.
2nr - T increase/Wheelchair CP
==Nfl Districts== 
Note - Joseph debated w/ different partner
Round Two vs Round Rock (Piezo Electric Highway)
1nc - aspec/coercion/neolib k/politics/china fdi

Round Four vs Westwood (Civil Reparations)
1nc - Framework can't kick out of plan, Aspec, Pedagogy/Neolib/freire k, Topicality, Politics

==St. Marks Novice== 
Round Two vs Woodward (Board of Governors)
Neolib K/China FDI/T usfg investment/politics/case econ (bifo/economic rationality)
Neolib K

Round Three vs Colleyville (Climate Adaptation)
China FDI/Neolib k/T usfg investment/politics/warming = extinction on case
Neolib K

Round 6 vs C.E Byrd (Whiteness/Genealogy)
F/w, Anti-humanism, T five areas.
Anti-humanism

Semis vs Coppell (Inland Waterways)
China FDI/Politics/Neolib K/Case (impact d)
2nr Politics/K (Alt is the status quo)


Later.

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin: 0in 0in 5pt 0.6pt; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; text-align: justify; top: 2646px; width: 1px;"> generative themes are found. </span>