[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vouchers AC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Definition of universal health care:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Donald Hirasuna (Legislation Analyst at the Minnesota State Legislature). “Universal Health Coverage: An Economist’s Perspective.” Minnesota House of Representatives Research Brief. 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">For the purposes of this brief…not only single-payer plans.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thus, I advocate a Universal Healthcare Voucher System to guarantee comprehensive coverage for all Americans.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ezekiel Emanuel (oncologist and former White House adviser, is a vice provost and professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times on a range of topics including health and health policy) and Victor Fuchs (Department of Economics and Department of Health Research and Policy, Dean of American economists, Stanford University), “A Comprehensive Cure: Universal Health Care Vouchers” The Brookings Institution Policy Brief, July 2007</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Universal Healthcare Voucher System…public and private health care expenditures.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Standard: Maximizing social welfare</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Health</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Lack of insurance kills 45,000 annually</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Madison Park. "45,000 American deaths associated with lack of health insurance." CNN. September 18, 2009. http://articles.cnn.com/2009-09-18/health/deaths.health.insurance_1_health-insurance-david-himmelstein-debate-over-health-care?_s=PM:HEALTH</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Research released this week... lack of health insurance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Lack of insurance generally increases suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Michelle Andrews “Deaths Rising for Lack of Insurance, Study Finds” New York Times February 26, 2010 [[http://prescriptions.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/02/26/deaths-rising-due-to-lack-of-insurance-study-finds/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">As members of the Obama administration…to clear up clogged arteries.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Vouchers solve by expanding coverage to 100% of Americans.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Emanuel and Fuchs 2 (ibid)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">With no restrictions or enrollment…or buying a new car.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Costs</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Vouchers curb cost inflation by tying the value of the voucher to the VAT.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Emanuel and Fuchs 3 (ibid)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Another major advantage of the…the added expenditure is worth it</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Vouchers reduce administrative costs and increases efficiency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Emanuel and Fuchs 4 (ibid)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Eliminating the employer…would be realized each year.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Competition incentivizes innovation and drives down costs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Emanuel and Fuchs 5 (ibid)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, competition among health plans…that adds little benefit.</span>
==Negative== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gauthier NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reason-giving facts, and thus reasons, are subjective, meaning that ethical decisions must be based on individual reasons for action. David Gauthier writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[Gauthier, David. Review: Are We Moral Debtors? Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, Vol. 66, No. 1 (Jan., 2003), pp. 162-168. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20140521]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scanlon has shifted from the…her fellows should agree with her.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Only contractarianism gives an objective framework for reconciling individual subjectivities. Gauthier 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Political Contractarianism, Philosophy, University of Pittsburgh, The Journal of Political Philosophy: Volume 5, Number 2, 1997, pp. 132-148)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The contractarian position is…must be justifiable to each.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Standard: consistency with a contractarian system of mutual self-restraint</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The majority would not consent to universal health care because of diminishing marginal returns on high-risk patients.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Richard A. Epstein & David A. Hyman Controlling the Cost of Medical Care: A Dose of Deregulation. This paper was originally presented at a conference at the Brookings Institution on March 7, 2008. A section was subsequently added to this paper to reflect events as of October 1, 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We are now in a position to…more favorable risk profiles.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Risk pooling redistributes premiums from responsible to irresponsible actors.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Epstein and Hyman 2 (ibid)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The term “social insurance”…should be defended in its own terms.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Premium Support CP</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Text: The United States federal government will give those eligible for Medicare a voucher to purchase private insurance through insurance exchanges.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Competition: Mutually exclusive, no guarantee of coverage so it isn’t topical, net benefits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Solvency</span>

Premium support would remove centralized control from Medicare financing, allowing competition to drive innovation and hold down costs.
Robert E. Moffit (Director of the Center for Health Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation), “Premium Support: Medicare’s Future and Its Critics” The Heritage Foundation Policy Brief August 7, 2012

While current payment centralizes control…enhance patient satisfaction.

The savings from premium support are empirically effective – Medicare Part D proves.

James C. Capretta (a Fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center ) “The Advantages of Reforming Medicare with Premium Support” The Brookings Institution Policy Brief December 2011
The drug benefit in Medicare…below cost growth in the rest of Medicare.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">D. Net Benefit – Spending</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Universal coverage will cost 2 trillion.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Michael F. Cannon, Cato institute of director of Health Policy Studies, 5/26/09 “How Much Will Universal Coverage Cost?” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/05/26/how-much-will-universal-coverage-cost/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">President Barack Obama…well over - $2 trillion.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Hegemony</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Health care spending will run the federal budget into the ground.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">James Kvaal (Senior Director at the White House National Economic Council) “The Economic Imperative for Health Reform” Center for American Progress, December 9, 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rising health care costs…important financial benefits from them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Federal debt causes economic disaster and collapses hege.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad (Policy Analyst at the Rand Corporation) “The Economy and National Security”, National Review Online February 8, 2011</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Today, economic and fiscal…of the United States internationally.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">US hegemony is key to check multiple scenarios for nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7 Senior Associate @ the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (End of Dreams, Return of History, Policy Review, Hoover Institution, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Finally, there is the United States… could be destabilizing.</span>

2. Turns Case

Health coverage does not equal health – other forms of social support are key.
Ezra Klein (Washington Post columnist). "Health Care doesn't keep people healthy." February 28, 2011. Washington Post. http://voices.washingtonpost.com/ezra-klein/2011/02/health_care_doesnt_keep_people.html

File this one under…them as health-care expenditures.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Health care spending trades off with other goods like education.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ezekiel J. Emanuel, “What We Give Up for Health Care” The New York Times January 21, 2012 http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/01/21/what-we-give-up-for-health-care/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The middle and working classes…are a crucial factor.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Innovation DA</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Uniqueness:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. medical innovation is high in the status quo – American innovation is uniquely key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">John Lechleiter (chairman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America), “Here's How to Maintain America's Medical Innovation Edge” Forbes.com 4/12/2012</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Today, the U.S. is…and the system collapses.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Link:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Universal health care systems undermine incentives for medical innovation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">John C. Goodman (president of the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas, Texas) “Health Care in a Free Society: Rebutting the Myths of National Health Insurance” CATO Institute Policy Analysis, January 27, 2005</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Advocates of single-payer insurance…and drug innovation is limited.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Impacts</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Medical innovation is key to fighting AIDS.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rajan ‘4 (Patrick Rajan, July 2nd 2004, ‘HIV: Drug Innovation Must Keep Up With the Changing Virus’, HYPERLINK "http://www.frost.com/prod/servlet/market-insight-top.pag?docid=20968806&ctxixpLink=FcmCtx9&ctxixpLabel=FcmCtx10" http://www.frost.com/prod/servlet/market-insight-top.pag?docid=20968806&ctxixpLink=FcmCtx9&ctxixpLabel=FcmCtx10)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Over 40 million people around… to combat this epidemic.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AIDS will kill 70 million people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">People’s Daily ’02 “AIDS to Kill 70 Million People in Next 20 Years, UN Says” People’s Daily Newspaper [official newspaper for the Communist Party of China] 7/03/02</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United Nations warned…on HIV/AIDS in New York.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Turns case – medical innovation improves treatment and saves lives.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Paul Howard (Manhattan Institute senior fellow and director of the Manhattan Institute's Center for Medical Progress), “A Story Michael Moore Didn't Tell” Washington Post, Special to washingtonpost.com's Think Tank Town, July 17, 2007</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Michael Moore's "Sicko" is now…sickest and most vulnerable patients.</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]