[[toc]]
Full text of 2AC/2NC cards upon request.
2A: Jasmine iateyoursocks@gmail.com
2N: Jennifer forschoolpurposesonly@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Pflugerville== 

===Contention One is Inherency=== 

**The status quo planning of urban cities and its transportation benefits the privileged whites at the expense of low-income minorities.**
Robert D. **Bullard, et. al,** Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 3-5 :)
Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned and, in many cases, planned poorly when it comes to people of color. Conscious decisions determine the location of freeways, bus stops, fueling stations, and train stations. Decisions to build highways, expressways, and beltways have far-reaching effects on land use, energy policies, and the environment. Decisions by county commissioners to bar the extension of public transit to job-rich economic activity centers in suburban counties and instead spend their transportation dollars on repairing and expanding the nation's roads have serious mobility implications for central city residents. Together, all these transportation decisions shape United States metropolitan areas, growth patterns, physical mobility, and economic opportunities.' These same transportation policies have also aided, and in some cases subsidized, racial, economic, and environmental inequities as evidenced by the segregated housing and spatial layout of our central cities and suburbs. It is not by chance that millions of Americans have been socially isolated and relegated to economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created. An Affair with the Automobile Over the past 75 years, automobile production and highway construction have multiplied, while urban mass transit systems have been dismantled or allowed to fall into disrepair. The American automobile culture was spurred by massive government investments in roads (3 million miles) and interstate highways (45,000 miles). Automobiles account for 28 percent of our nation's energy consumption. Transportation consumes 67 percent of the petroleum used in the United States.' And over 75 percent of transportation energy is used by highway vehicles. From 1998 to 1999, US gasoline consumption rose by 2.5 percent and vehicle miles traveled increased by 1.4 percent. More cars on the road has meant more pollution, traffic congestion, wasted energy, urban sprawl, residential segregation, and social disruption. Indeed, not all Americans have received the same benefits from the massive road and highway spending over the past several decades. Generally, the benefits of highways are widely dispersed among the many travelers who drive them, while the burdens of those roads are more localized. Having a seven-lane freeway next door, for instance, is not a benefit to someone who does not even own a car. People of color are twice as likely to use nonautomotive modes of travel public transit, walking, and biking to get to work, as compared to their white counterparts. In urban areas, African Americans and Latinos comprise 54 percent of transit users (62 percent of bus riders, 35 percent of subway riders, and 29 percent of commuter riders).5 Many Americans have cars and the majority of American workers opt for private automobiles, which provide speed and convenience. Most drivers forego carpooling, with three-fourths of all commuting cars carrying only one person. Generally, people who commute using public transit spend twice as much time traveling as those who travel by car. Consider that the average commute takes about 20 minutes by car, 38 minutes by bus, and 45 minutes by train. For millions of inner-city residents, public transportation is the only means of getting around. For them, there is no question that energy-efficient public transportation is needed for easy access to child-care services shopping, job centers, and health care services. Routes of Transportation Apartheid The disparity of fruits borne by various transportation development projects is a grim story of a stolen harvest with disproportionate burdens and costs paid for in diminished health and life opportunities by poor people and people of color. Many federally subsidized transportation construction and infrastructure projects cut wide paths through low-income and people of color neighborhoods. They physically isolate residents from their institutions and businesses, disrupt once-stable communities, displace thriving businesses, contribute to urban sprawl, subsidize infrastructure decline, create traffic gridlock, and subject residents to elevated risks from accidents, spills, and explosions from vehicles carrying hazardous chemicals and other dangerous materials. Adding insult to injury, cutbacks in mass transit subsidies have the potential to further isolate the poor in inner-city neighborhoods from areas experiencing job growth compromising what little they already have. So while some communities receive transportation benefits, others pay the costs. Some communities get roads, while others are stuck with the externalities such as exhaust fumes from other people's cars. Public transit and roads are not created equal. Generally, public transit in the US is often equated with the poor and the less successful On the other hand, roads are associated with private automobiles affluence, and success. In reality, both transit and roads are subsidized and form the heart of our public transportation infrastructure. The lion's share of transportation dollars is spent on roads, while urban transit systems are often left in disrepair or are strapped for funds. Public transit has received roughly $50 billion since the creation of the Urban Mass Transit Administration over thirty years ago, while roadway projects have received over $205 billion since 1956.6 Opaque transportation policy obscures the truth: transportation dollars are aiding and abetting the flight of people, jobs, and development to the suburban fringe. The subsidies paid on behalf of suburban commuter transit riders, when compared with inner-city transit riders, illustrate the extreme lack of parity within transit project funding. Transit providers routinely respond differently to their urban, inner-city, transit-dependent riders and their suburban "choice" riders who have cars. Attempts to lure white suburban commuters out of their cars and onto transit often compete with providing quality services for urban transit-dependent people of color, handicapped, and elderly transit riders. There also appears to be an unwritten rule that the poor and people of color transit riders deserve fewer transit amenities than white suburbanites who own cars. Whether intended or unintended, some transit providers bend over backward to accommodate their mostly white suburban commuters with plush, air conditioned, clean-fuel and handicapped-accessible buses and trains, while inner-city transit riders are saddled with dilapidated, "dirty" diesel buses. Enticin``g suburban commuters out of their cars will relieve congestion and improve air quality for all and should be compatible with allocating equitable transportation dollars to urban transit needs. Visions of Equitable Transportation Much of transportation planning is about the flow of dollars billions of dollars. Who gets what, when, where, why, and how much is not rocket science but political science. Why do some communities get transit while others are left out? Why do some communities get light rail while others get buses? Why are clean-fuel vehicles sent to one community and not another? Why are higher subsidies paid to one group of transit riders while other riders are shortchanged? What institutional changes are needed to build transportation equity into regional plans and programs? What progress have we made in eliminating racial discrimination in transportation decision-making? What community-organizing and legal strategies are effective in combating transportation racism? These and other transportation questions and issues are addressed in this book.

===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its public transportation infrastructure investment towards low income communities in the United States.**

===Contention Two is Transportation Apartheid=== 

**We’ll isolate three instances of transportation racism:**

**First, transportation in the status quo disconnects minorities from job opportunities.**
Robert D. **Bullard**, et. al, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 16-19 :)
In June 1956, the US Supreme Court ruled in favor of the MIA. Martin Luther King, Jr., recognized that racism in its many forms was holding blacks back economically and that blacks were being denied the basic rights that white Americans took for granted. In his speeches, he made it clear that the racism being fought in the Montgomery transit system was not an isolated occurrence, but that racism permeated every American institution. When you go beyond the relatively simple though serious problems such as police racism, however, you begin to get into all the complexities of the modern American economy. Urban transit systems in most American cities, for example, have become a genuine civil rights issue and a valid one because the layout of rapid-transit systems determines the accessibility of jobs to the black community. If transportation systems in American cities could be laid out so as to provide an opportunity for poor people to get to meaningful employment, then they could begin to move into the mainstream of American life. A good example of this problem is my home city of Atlanta, where the rapid-transit system has been laid out for the convenience of the white upper-middle-class suburbanites who commute to their jobs downtown. The system has virtually no consideration for connecting the poor people with their jobs. There is only one possible explanation for this situation, and that is the racist blindness of city planners.' By linking the unequal treatment on and access to buses with the violation of constitutionally guaranteed civil rights, the MIA and their leaders built on the foundation laid by the UDL boycott in Baton Rouge. The Montgomery bus boycott was a turning point for many reasons. It introduced nonviolent direct action to the black South and demonstrated the collective power of a united black community. The basic organizing principles that came out of Montgomery were implemented in the nationwide civil rights movement and changed America forever.9 The black masses would no longer be treated as second-class citizens, relegated to the back of the bus. They demanded to be treated as Americans. The Freedom Riders of the early 1960s extended the attack on civil rights via transportation racism by challenging segregated seating on interstate buses. On May 4, 1961, an integrated group of thirteen Freedom Riders left Washington, DC, for New Orleans, Louisiana. When they reached Alabama, John Lewis and the young Freedom Riders were arrested and beaten and their buses fire-bombed. In their attempt to test the reality of the Brown decision, the Freedom Riders never made it to New Orleans. Instead they were met by angry white mobs and racist police. Nevertheless, no amount of government sanctioned violence could dampen the spirits and iron will of the freedom fighters. Suffering beatings and fire-bombings at the hands of mobs and police, more than four hundred Freedom Riders had been arrested by late summer 1961 for fighting transportation racism.' The combined efforts of civil rights groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), Student Nonviolent coordinating Committee (SNCC), Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Nashville Christian Leadership Conference (NCLC), Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) prompted the Kennedy Administration to provide federal protection for the Freedom Riders and forced the Kennedy Administration to take a stand on civil rights. More importantly, the "Freedom Riders generated movement activity and music, helping educate and galvanize the black community for protest."" Race Matters Although the US has made tremendous strides in civil rights, race still matters in America.0 In his classic book Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison illustrated that white racism not only harms individuals, but it also renders black people and their communities invisible." By one definition, white racism is the "socially organized set of attitudes, ideas, and practices that deny African Americans and other people of color the dignity, opportunities, freedoms, and rewards that this nation offers white Americans."14 Racism combines with public policies and industry practices to provide benefits for whites while shifting costs to people of coloris Many racist acts and practices are institutionalized informally and in some cases become standard public policy. For decades, it was legal and common practice for transit agencies to operate separate and unequal systems for whites and blacks and for city, county, and state government officials to use tax dollars to provide transportation amenities for white communities while denying the same services to black communities. American cities continue to be racially polarized. Residential apartheid is the dominant housing pattern for most African Americans still the most segregated ethnic group in the country. Nowhere is this separate society contrast more apparent than in the nation's central cities and large metropolitan areas. Urban America typifies the costly legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, and institutionalized discrimination:6 America's dirty secret, institutionalized racism is part of our national heritage:7 Racism is a potent tool for sorting people into their physical environmenti8 St. Claire Drake and Horace R. Cayton, in their 1945 groundbreaking Black Metropolis, documented the role racism played in creating Chicago's South Side ghetto.'9 In 1965, psychologist Kenneth Clark proclaimed that racism created our nation's "dark ghettos."2° In 1968, the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, the Kerner Commission, reported that "white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto" and that "white institutions created it, white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it."2' The black ghetto is kept contained and isolated from the larger white society through well-defined institutional practices, private actions, and government policies." Even when the laws change, some discriminatory practices remain. Some contend that "racism is an integral, permanent, and indestructible component of this society."" Permanent or not, racism continues to be a central factor in explaining the social inequality, political exploitation, social isolation, and the poor health of people of color in the United States. Furthermore, contemporary race relations in America can no longer be viewed in the black-white paradigm. Racism makes the daily life experiences of most African Americans, Latino Americans, Native Americans, and Asian and Pacific Islander Americans very different from that of most white Americans. Modern racism must be understood as an everyday lived experience.24 Not having reliable public transportation can mean the difference between gainful employment and a life of poverty in the ghettos and barrios. Since most do not have cars, transportation is even more crucial for the vulnerable population that is moving from welfare to work. Training, skills, and jobs are meaningless if millions of Americans can't get to work. Of course, it would be ideal if job centers were closer to the homes of inner-city residents, but few urban core neighborhoods have experienced an economic revitalization that can rival the current jobs found in the suburbs. Transportation remains a major stumbling block for many to achieve self-sufficiency. It boils down to "no transportation, no job," and, more often than not, public transportation does not connect urban residents to jobs. Transportation policies did not emerge in a race- and class-neutral society. Transportation-planning outcomes often reflected the biases of their originators with the losers comprised largely of the poor, powerless, and people of color.

**Second, restricted access to transportation hampers access to education opportunities.**
**Sanchez, et al. 03** Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research ¶ fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior ¶ Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy ¶ Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard., 2003, "MOVING TO EQUITY: ¶ Addressing Inequitable Effects of ¶ Transportation Policies on Minorities," The Civil Rights ¶ Project at Harvard University, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf linja
Creating barriers to access to education is another indirect effect of transportation ¶ policies. Following the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education,¶ 125¶ “busing” and ¶ yellow school buses became well-known symbols of the fight for equal educational opportunities ¶ for African Americans. The significance of these symbols is diminishing because more and more ¶ school systems are returning to the idea of neighborhood schools and courts are declaring school ¶ districts “unitary,” meaning they have eliminated the effects of past segregation as far as they are ¶ able. Today’s transportation policies, however, still have an effect on access to educational ¶ opportunities for a number of minorities and individuals from low-income communities. ¶ No longer do most students rely on yellow school buses to get to school. Many students ¶ depend on public transportation to attend school and college as well as participate in ¶ extracurricular activities. A recent study of this issue estimated that nationally, during normal ¶ school hours, the majority—60 percent—of all student trips were made by car and that these ¶ were primarily trips to and from school.¶ 126¶ One study found that students traveling to or from ¶ school in cities of more than 500,000 accounted for 15 percent of all public transportation ¶ trips.¶ 127¶ It was estimated in 1996 that 20 percent of school children in California were using ¶ public transportation or other special transportation service to go to school and that growing ¶ numbers of students were relying on public transportation in other states such as Ohio.¶ 128¶ ¶ As The National Academies’ Transportation Research Board stated, “transit services in ¶ large urban areas have long been used to transport students, particularly those in high school and ¶ junior high school.”¶ 129¶ While there is no research documenting how many of these students ¶ taking public transportation are minorities, it stands to reason that many of the K–12 ¶ (kindergarten through 12¶ th¶ grade) students who depend on public transportation are minorities ¶ located in urban areas with a developed public transportation system. Supporting this idea is the ¶ fact that Los Angeles,¶ 130¶ Houston,¶ 131¶ and Washington, DC¶ 132¶ —cities with significant minority ¶ populations—provide discounted public bus fares for students. ¶ Although the large majority of K–12 students do not need to rely on public transit to get ¶ to school, for those who do, access to that transportation may mean the difference between ¶ attending and missing school. For instance, during efforts to obtain free student transit passes ¶ from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission serving the San Francisco Bay area, evidence ¶ was presented that students without access to public transportation would not attend school.¶ 133¶ A ¶ number of high school students in Oakland and El Cerrito, which have significant minority ¶ populations, testified that they needed free transit passes because their families sometimes had to ¶ decide between food and bus fare.¶ 134¶ In Portland, Oregon, the school district does not provide ¶ bus service for students living within 1.5 miles of a school. Sisters in Action for Power, an ¶ organization focusing on the interests of low-income girls and girls of color, pressed for free ¶ rides to high school on public buses after its survey of more than 2,000 students found that 11 ¶ percent reported missing school due to their inability to meet transportation costs.¶ 135¶ Students in ¶ Providence, Rhode Island, in an informal survey of more than 500 high school students, found ¶ that a number of students whose families were unable to afford bus passes stayed home and ¶ missed school, especially during harsh winter days, and others got detention for being late ¶ because of the amount of time it took them to walk to school.¶ 136¶ Currently, students attending ¶ Providence public high schools who live within three miles of their school must walk or provide ¶ their own means of transportation. ¶ Limited funding for schools makes it difficult for school districts to transport all children ¶ in school buses. Recent severe cuts in school budgets makes it likely that more school districts ¶ will need to reduce the transportation services they provide and that more children will need to ¶ rely on public transportation to attend school. Transportation policies should recognize and ¶ address this growing need. ¶ In addition, education reform laws do not always consider the impact of access to ¶ transportation. For example, states authorizing charter schools do not always require that the ¶ schools provide transportation to students.¶ 137¶ Some states that require charter schools to provide ¶ transportation to students only require that they follow the same standards of other schools in the ¶ district, such as providing transportation only to those residing in the school district in which the ¶ charter school physically exists even though charter schools generally can enroll students from ¶ surrounding school districts. Failure to provide transportation may reinforce the segregative ¶ effect of charter schools by eliminating the option of low-income minority students to enroll in ¶ these schools due to a lack of transportation.¶ 138¶ Another education reform law, the No Child Left ¶ Behind Act,¶ 139¶ allows students to transfer from “failing” schools, which are often schools with ¶ predominantly minority populations. It does not require that transportation be provided to ¶ students who wish to transfer. Although this provision has the potential to reduce segregated ¶ schools, not providing transportation to nonfailing schools means that many minority students ¶ will not be able to take advantage of this option. ¶ Lack of access to transportation also affects access to higher education. Many people of ¶ color, for financial and other reasons, attend local community colleges or do not live on campus, ¶ often requiring that they find transportation other than walking. For example, minority students ¶ make up 30 percent of community college enrollment nationally and their enrollment is often ¶ higher in urban areas.¶ 140¶ It is likely that at least some of these students rely on public ¶ transportation. These students are likely to experience long or inconvenient commutes as many ¶ colleges were designed to serve a region and not necessarily to be accessible by public ¶ transportation. It is not known how many students who cannot afford a car decide not to go to ¶ college or drop out in the face of an overly arduous commute on inadequate public ¶ transportation. Federal and local transportation policies must find ways to better serve the ¶ transportation needs of those most dependent on public transportation or the dream of equal ¶ access to educational opportunities will remain deferred for many students of color.

**Third, lack of transportation worsens health problems—less access to health care.**
**Wallace, et. Al 05** R. Wallace, P. Hughes-Cromwick, and H. Mull, Altarum Institute, S. Khasnabis, Wayne State University, **2005**, "Access to Health Care and¶ Nonemergency Medical Transportation," Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, pp. 80-82 linja
For both the adult and child samples, the analysis of the NHIS reveals¶ extensive comorbidities and a much higher prevalence of conditions¶ for individuals who miss care because of transportation problems¶ compared with those who do not miss care because of transportation¶ problems. This general finding has important implications for the consequences¶ of missed care. Transportation-disadvantaged status that¶ results in missed trips will potentially exacerbate the diseases and¶ may result in costly subsequent medical care (specialist visits, emergency¶ room visits, and possibly hospitalizations). Even when the¶ potential to decrease subsequent utilization by more prompt care of¶ an existing condition does not exist, quality-of-life concerns remain¶ evident and important. For example, the prevalence of frequent¶ headaches is more than twice as high for children who miss care¶ because of transportation problems than it is for other children. To the¶ extent that medical visits are being delayed for these transportation disadvantaged¶ children, they could be subject to considerable pain¶ and suffering that otherwise could be effectively treated.¶ The effects of not obtaining needed nonemergency medical care¶ because of transportation barriers on the health of affected persons¶ depend, to some extent, on whether the missed care was preventive¶ or for treatment for an existing condition. In the preventive arena,¶ lack of transportation can lead to underimmunization (17), difficulties¶ in administering screening programs (18), failure to attend pediatric¶ checkups (19), and lack of prenatal care for poor women (9, 20).¶ For chronic problems, numerous studies have documented a lack¶ of care because of transportation barriers. Conover and Whetten-¶ Goldstein, for example, found that 16.7% of AIDS and HIV patients¶ reported difficulties in obtaining transportation and as a result were¶ much less likely to have a primary care physician or to obtain regular¶ care (21). For people with diabetes, a recent study revealed that¶ those who missed more than 30% of scheduled appointments experienced¶ worse health outcomes than those who attended more often¶ (22). Additionally, patients with asthma entering the emergency¶ room were much less likely to obtain follow-up care if they did not¶ have access to transportation (23–25).

**Access to transportation is a human right—it permeates every aspect of daily life and MUST be extended to minorities who can’t access it in the status quo.**
Robert D. **Bullard, et. al**, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 2 :)
2 HIGHWAY ROBBERY the role transportation plays in shaping human interaction, economic mobility, and sustainability. From New York City to Los Angeles. and a host of cities in between, people of color are banding together to challenge unfair, unjust, and illegal transportation policies and practices that relegate them to the back of the bus. From Rosa Parks and the brave souls who risked their lives in the Montgomery Bus Boycott to John Lewis and the Freedom Riders, individual and organizational frontal assaults on racist transportation policies and practices represent attempts to literally dismantle the infrastructure of oppression. Natural heirs of the civil rights legacy, the Los Angeles Bus Riders Union in the 1990s and hundreds of grassroots groups in the early years of the new millennium have taken to our nation’s buses, trains, streets, and highways and joined the battle against transportation racism. Transportation racism hurts people of color communities by depriving their residents of valuable resources, investments, and mobility. This book represents a small but signiﬁcant part of the transportation equity movement—a movement that is redeﬁning transportation as an environmental, economic, civil, and human right. The need for transportation touches every aspect of our lives and daily routines. The course of one day could necessitate a range of activities: working, shopping, visiting friends, attending church, or going to the doctor. Furthermore, transportation provides access to opportunity and serves as a key component in addressing poverty, unemployment, and equal opportunity goals while ensuring equal access to education, employment, and other public services. Lest anyone dismiss transportation as a tangential expense, consider that except for housing, Americans spend more on transportation than any other household disbursement, including food. education, and health care. The average American household spends one ﬁfth of its income - or about $6,000 a year—for each car that it owns and operates? It is not uncommon for many low-income, people of color households to spend up to one-third of their income on transportation. This book afﬁrms that transportation is neither a marginal cost nor an irrelevant need, but a necessity. Highway Robbery focuses on people of color because their struggles unite transportation and civil rights into one framework: transportation equity. Transportation equity is consistent with the goals of the larger environmental justice and civil rights movements. We emphasize issues of justice, fairness, and equity. We deﬁne transportation equity as a basic right, a right worth ﬁghting for.

**Racism lays the groundwork for subjugation and otherization**
Gretchen E. **Schafft, 2004** (Social Anthropologist, “From Racism to Genocide” page 200-202, :)
What Is Race? Discussing the early beliefs about race without first clarifying the latest think-ing about this concept could lead to misconceptions. Most people still mis-takenly believe, for instance, that each of us belongs to a definable race. Skin color, hair type, shape of facial features, and physique are associated with the idea of race in the minds of many people. A writer recently decleared that, “With few exceptions, psychologists believe that there are two sexes—male and female—and three (principal) races—Caucasoid, Mongoloid, and Ne-groid.” His point was not that this is correct; rather, it is that not only psy-chologists but most people believe this abbreviated version of human diver-sity to be true. The concept of race, according to one prominent physical anthropologist, did not occur to the earliest recorded travelers to distant places, for they were moving slowly on foot or on horseback and saw only a gradual change in the appearance of the people they met.2 The graduations of appearance seemed natural enough, as indeed they are. It was during the Renaissance, when ocean travel brought travelers to faraway lands, that the sudden differences among population groups startled them. Here were people of size, physique, and skin color very different from what these Europeans had ever seen, and the languages and customs were not at all what they could have imagined. Perhaps they thought these were not really people at all. And if they were not human, their riches could be taken from them, they could be put into bondage, they could be subjected and subjugated to the will and whims of their “superiors,” since they were outside the moral constraints that applied to fellow human beings. Seeing other people as fundamentally different from themselves allowed travelers to exploit these strange beings without remorse.’ Colonial power over the natives could be viewed paternalistically: The exploitation of natives was for their own good. In this way, the concept of race was associate-ed with power relationships and economic gain. As the colonial era was ush-ered in at the beginning of the 1600s, the concept of race offered a way to distinguish “us” and “them,” a welcome rationalization.

**Racism is the precondition to any war – its existence makes conflict inevitable**
**Foucault** in**'76** [Michel, Society Must be Defended: Lectures at the College de France, 1975-1976, p. 254-257 Trans. David Macey]
What in fact is racism? It is primarily a way of introducing a break into the domain of life that is under power's control: the break between what must live and what must die. The appearance within the biological continuum of the human race of races, the distinction among races, the hierarchy of races, the fact that certain races are described as good and that others, in contrast, are described as inferior: all this is a way of fragmenting the field of the biological that power controls. It is a way of separating out the groups that exist within a population. It is, in short, a way of establishing a biological type caesura within a population that appears to be a biological domain. This will allow power to treat that population as a mixture of races, or to be more accurate, to treat the species, to subdivide the species it controls, into the subspecies known, precisely, as races. That is the first function of racism: to fragment, to create caesuras within the biological continuum addressed by biopower. Racism also has a second function. Its role is, if you like, to allow the establishment of a positive relation of this type: "The more you kill, the more deaths you will cause" or "The very fact that you let more die will allow you to live more." I would say that this relation ("If you want to live, you must take lives, you must be able to kill") was not invented by either racism or the modern State. It is the relationship of war: "In order to live, you must destroy your enemies." But racism does make the relationship of war-"If you want to live, the other must die" - function in a way that is completely new and that is quite compatible with the exercise of biopower. On the one hand, racism makes it possible to establish a relationship between my life and the death of the other that is not a military or warlike relationship of confrontation, but a biological-type relationship: "The more inferior species die out, the more abnormal individuals are eliminated, the fewer degenerates there will be in the species as a whole, and the more Ias species rather than individual-can live, the stronger I will be, the more vigorous I will be. I will be able to proliferate." The fact that the other dies does not mean simply that I live in the sense that his death guarantees my safety; the death of the other, the death of the bad race, of the inferior race (or the degenerate, or the abnormal) is something that will make life in general healthier: healthier and purer. This is not, then, a military, warlike, or political relationship, but a biological relationship. And the reason this mechanism can come into play is that the enemies who have to be done away with are not adversaries in the political sense of the term; they are threats, either external or internal, to the population and for the population. In the biopower system, in other words, killing or the imperative to kill is acceptable only if it results not in a victory over political adversaries, but in the elimination of the biological threat to and the improvement of the species or race. There is a direct connection between the two. In a normalizing society, race or racism is the precondition that makes killing acceptable. When you have a normalizing society, you have a power which is, at least superficially, in the first instance, or in the first line a biopower, and racism is the indispensable precondition that allows someone to be killed, that allows others to be killed. Once the State functions in the biopower mode, racism alone can justify the murderous function of the State. So you can understand the importance-I almost said the vital importance-of racism to the exercise of such a power: it is the precondition for exercising the right to kill. If the power of normalization wished to exercise the old sovereign right to kill, it must become racist. And if, conversely, a power of sovereignty, or in other words, a power that has the right of life and death, wishes to work with the instruments, mechanisms, and technology of normalization, it too must become racist. When I say "killing," I obviously do not mean simply murder as such, but also every form of indirect murder: the fact of exposing someone to death, increasing the risk of death for some people, or, quite simply, political death, expulsion, rejection, and so on. I think that we are now in a position to understand a number of things. We can understand, first of all, the link that was quickly-I almost said immediately-established between nineteenth-century biological theory and the discourse of power. Basically, evolutionism, understood in the broad sense-or in other words, not so much Darwin's theory itself as a set, a bundle, of notions (such as: the hierarchy of species that grow from a common evolutionary tree, the struggle for existence among species, the selection that eliminates the less fit) naturally became within a few years during the nineteenth century not simply a way of transcribing a political discourse into biological terms, and not simply a way of dressing up a political discourse in scientific clothing, but a real way of thinking about the relations between colonization, the necessity for wars, criminality, the phenomena of madness and mental illness, the history of societies with their different classes, and so on. Whenever, in other words, there was a confrontation, a killing or the risk of death, the nineteenth century was quite literally obliged to think about them in the form of evolutionism. And we can also understand why racism should have developed in modern societies that function in the biopower mode; we can understand why racism broke out at a number of .privileged moments, and why they were precisely the moments when the right to take life was imperative. Racism first develops with colonization, or in other words, with colonizing genocide. If you are functioning in the biopower mode, how can you justify the need to kill people, to kill populations, and to kill civilizations? By using the themes of evolutionism, by appealing to a racism. War. How can one not only wage war on one's adversaries but also expose one's own citizens to war, and let them be killed by the million (and this is precisely what has been going on since the nineteenth century, or since the second half of the nineteenth century), except by activating the theme of racism? From this point onward, war is about two things: it is not simply a matter of destroying a political adversary, but of destroying the enemy race, of destroying that [sort] of biological threat that those people over there represent to our race. In one sense, this is of course no more than a biological extrapolation from the theme of the political enemy. But there is more to it than that. In the nineteenth century-and this is completely new-war will be seen not only as a way of improving one's own race by eliminating the enemy race (in accordance with the themes of natural selection and the struggle for existence), but also as a way of regenerating one's own race. As more and more of our number die, the race to which we belong will become all the purer.

===Contention Three is Solvency=== 

**Transportation infrastructure funding that prioritizes highway spending above public transit subsidizes suburbinization at the expense of urban areas—reversal of investment is key**
**Rubin 9** (Victor, PolicyLink Vice President for Research, PhD in City and Regional Planning, All Aboard! Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy, PolicyLink, 2009, pg. 7) PCS
Car users have been the primary beneficiaries of federal and state transportation investment, and an automobile-focused pattern of metropolitan development has become entrenched. About 80 percent of federal transportation expenditure goes toward highways, while the infrastructure for all other modes of travel competes for the remaining 20 percent. As a result of these funding disparities, lower-income people and communities of color, who rely more on public transit for mobility and access since they have significantly lower rates of car ownership, have not fared nearly as well as higher-income and white Americans. It is therefore not surprising that people of color, who tend to have significantly lower incomes, use public transportation to travel to work at rates that are up to four times higher than whites, or that African-Americans and Latinos together make up 54 percent of public transportation users in urban areas. To ensure people who do not use cars benefit from transportation investment, the next authorization must shift federal spending away from the current bias of highway building and into a “mode-neutral” system that can diversify regional transportation offerings. This could enable a “fix-it-first” approach for maintaining existing facilities and spending more on transit and other modes in which we have underinvested.

**Public transportation allows access to basic needs and social inclusion. The government must provide opportunities for individuals to choose for their own.**
**Stanley and Vella-Brodrick 09** Janet Stanley, Janet Stanley Monash Sustainability Institute, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia, AND Dianne Vella-Brodrick, School of Psychology, Psychiatry and Psychological Medicine, Monash University, Caulfield 3145, Australia, July 2009, “The usefulness of social exclusion to inform social policy in transport,” Transport Policy
Volume 16, Issue 3, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X09000043 linja
The role of transport in facilitating social inclusion through the¶ development of social capital, according to the SEU, may be¶ through promoting accessibility to key services. For example, the¶ provision of public transport may facilitate direct access to¶ employment by providing a means to get to a job. Alternatively,¶ however, transport may provide the means to enable people to¶ form associations or relationships and engage with other people¶ and groups, a common way of creating employment opportunities. The act of being on public transport, in itself, may directly¶ improve social capital, as travel offers opportunities to engage¶ with other travellers and feel part of a community of people.¶ Little theoretical work has been undertaken on social capital¶ and transport, apart from some recognition that transport does¶ play a role. Putnam (2000) has suggested there are negative links¶ between car dependence and the development of effective social¶ capital. Axhausen (2005) notes the lack of empirical evidence of¶ cheap travel and therefore increased communications, on the¶ structure of social networks. Urry (undated) argues that to be a¶ full, active and engaged member of society requires social capital¶ within localities and participation involves transportation and¶ mobility.¶ Similarly, well-being has not been adequately examined in¶ studies on transport. Given the strong association between¶ happiness and a range of desirable outcomes and qualities¶ ‘such as sociability, optimism, energy, originality and altruism’¶ (Lyubomirsky et al., 2005, p. 846) the omission of well-being in¶ such studies is a major shortcoming. Mobility is not always about¶ getting from A to B, rather it is about integrating everyday life and¶ ‘normal’ activities (Cass et al., 2005). Social inclusion is clearly¶ about being able to enjoy life, leisure and relationships. The¶ importance of transport for well-being is conﬁrmed in a South¶ African study, based in a rural village and an urban town (Clark,¶ 2002, quoted in Clarke and Gough, 2005). Transportation was¶ rated as being essential by 54.8% of participants. Items like jobs,¶ access to clean water and sanitation, housing and shelter and¶ family and friends were seen to be more important than¶ transportation. However, transportation was viewed to be more¶ important than having children, income and wealth, basic¶ clothing and living a long time, and equal to free time/recreation,¶ and political rights (voting, freedom of speech and association).¶ While not under-estimating the importance of being able to¶ access critical services like education and health, it is the¶ unstructured realm of friends, family leisure and social experiences that are also of great importance for inclusion. This ﬁnding¶ was conﬁrmed in a small study that examined the use of new bus¶ services in an outer Melbourne suburb (Bell et al., 2006). While¶ people used these new services to access education and other¶ services, the major use of the new services was for social and¶ leisure activities of an informal, unstructured nature.¶ This suggests that there are important elements, which should¶ be considered. There is a need for social governance goals: the¶ ability of people to determine their own goals of social inclusion¶ and well-being, rather than these requirements being assumed, as¶ is commonly the case where accessibility to services is viewed as¶ the required outcome. There needs to be opportunities for people¶ to be able to choose and access alternatives and achieve these¶ outcomes. This argument aligns with work being undertaken by¶ theorists like Nussbaum (2005) who seek to understand the¶ components of well-being. She argues that individuals should¶ choose what well-being is to them (within the limits of the legal¶ system) and the government has to provide opportunities so this¶ choice can be made (Nussbaum, 2005). Sen (1987), as noted¶ earlier, argues that a person’s well-being should be based on¶ the capacity to do, which may be unequal between people¶ (Nussbaum, 2005). To achieve certain levels of capability, it may¶ be necessary to offer more to those who have less, in order to¶ overcome the systematic disadvantage they face.¶ Thus, there is an argument that a minimum public transport¶ service needs to be provided by governments so people can use¶ these services to enhance their capabilities (Stanley et al., 2007).¶ This is commonly the case in developed countries for the¶ provision of health and education services, and it should also be¶ so for transport. This is a clear link with the concept of social¶ exclusion, where people may have reduced capabilities due to¶ factors such as low income, poor health and disability.

**Framing transportation in the ideas of social justice increases accessibility for the transportation-disadvantaged**
**Lewis 11** (David, PhD. and senior vice president for the International Transportation Forum, “Economic Perspectives on Transport and Equality”, pg 26-27, 5/12, http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/jtrc/DiscussionPapers/DP201109.pdf) AH
Poverty, inequality and social exclusion are closely tied to personal mobility and the accessibility of goods and services. Evidence of the economic role of transport in promoting belter living standards and greater wellbeing can be seen in the effects of both overall public investment in transport infrastructure, and in the impacts of specific transport policies, projects and multi-project plans. At the level of overall public expenditure, transport capital investment measurably promotes growth in worker productivity: This is significant because productivity growth is key to facilitating growth in personal incomes and living standards, and to closing income disparities between regions and sub-regions. At the level of specific policies, investments and plans, transport is seen to create economic wellbeing for a wide range socially disadvantaged groups, including the poor, elderly people, people with disabilities, children, young adults, and women. Such benefits include greater accessibility to work and other life-chances and reduced stigmatic harms associated with social exclusion. This paper argues that transport planning, economic evaluation, and governance modalities need to do a better job of adapting to the perspective on transport as a legitimate policy instrument for diminishing inequality and creating a just distribution of social value. Analysis methods to identify and measure such value, and governance mechanisms to ensure that equity objectives are properly served, are beginning to appear. This is a trend to be encouraged, particularly through the extension of economic evaluation methods and governance mechanisms to: • Account for a wider range of transport benefits and effects than traditionally recognized; • Address multi-project and multi-policy plans as well as individual projects; and • Shape transport plans with measures, both transport and non-transport, that mitigate systematic social biases; and • Give transport a direct, proactive role in fostering equality (rather than merely mitigating social biases) by encouraging the development of emerging policy development and planning methods that are rooted less in welfare economics and more in the operational ideas of social justice.

===Contention Four is Framing=== 

**This type of everyday violence must be prioritized in your calculations. We are desensitized to structural violence and must not continue its legitimization**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4**
(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)
(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)
This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. It encompasses everything from the routinized, bureaucratized, and utterly banal violence of children dying of hunger and maternal despair in Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33) to elderly African Americans dying of heat stroke in Mayor Daly’s version of US apartheid in Chicago’s South Side (Klinenberg, Chapter 38) to the racialized class hatred expressed by British Victorians in their olfactory disgust of the “smelly” working classes (Orwell, Chapter 36). In these readings violence is located in the symbolic and social structures that overdetermine and allow the criminalized drug addictions, interpersonal bloodshed, and racially patterned incarcerations that characterize the US “inner city” to be normalized (Bourgois, Chapter 37 and Wacquant, Chapter 39). Violence also takes the form of class, racial, political self-hatred and adolescent self-destruction (Quesada, Chapter 35), as well as of useless (i.e. preventable), rawly embodied physical suffering, and death (Farmer, Chapter 34). Absolutely central to our approach is a blurring of categories and distinctions between wartime and peacetime violence. Close attention to the “little” violences produced in the structures, habituses, and mentalites of everyday life shifts our attention to pathologies of class, race, and gender inequalities. More important, it interrupts the voyeuristic tendencies of “violence studies” that risk publicly humiliating the powerless who are often forced into complicity with social and individual pathologies of power because suffering is often a solvent of human integrity and dignity. Thus, in this anthology we are positing a violence continuum comprised of a multitude of “small wars and invisible genocides” (see also Scheper- Hughes 1996; 1997; 2000b) conducted in the normative social spaces of public schools, clinics, emergency rooms, hospital wards, nursing homes, courtrooms, public registry offices, prisons, detention centers, and public morgues. The violence continuum also refers to the ease with which humans are capable of reducing the socially vulnerable into expendable nonpersons and assuming the license - even the duty - to kill, maim, or soul-murder. We realize that in referring to a violence and a genocide continuum we are flying in the face of a tradition of genocide studies that argues for the absolute uniqueness of the Jewish Holocaust and for vigilance with respect to restricted purist use of the term genocide itself (see Kuper 1985; Chaulk 1999; Fein 1990; Chorbajian 1999). But we hold an opposing and alternative view that, to the contrary, it is absolutely necessary to make just such existential leaps in purposefully linking violent acts in normal times to those of abnormal times. Hence the title of our volume: Violence in War and in Peace. If (as we concede) there is a moral risk in overextending the concept of “genocide” into spaces and corners of everyday life where we might not ordinarily think to find it (and there is), an even greater risk lies in failing to sensitize ourselves, in misrecognizing protogenocidal practices and sentiments daily enacted as normative behavior by “ordinary” good-enough citizens. Peacetime crimes, such as prison construction sold as economic development to impoverished communities in the mountains and deserts of California, or the evolution of the criminal industrial complex into the latest peculiar institution for managing race relations in the United States (Waquant, Chapter 39), constitute the “small wars and invisible genocides” to which we refer. This applies to African American and Latino youth mortality statistics in Oakland, California, Baltimore, Washington DC, and New York City. These are “invisible” genocides not because they are secreted away or hidden from view, but quite the opposite. As Wittgenstein observed, the things that are hardest to perceive are those which are right before our eyes and therefore taken for granted. In this regard, Bourdieu’s partial and unfinished theory of violence (see Chapters 32 and 42) as well as his concept of misrecognition is crucial to our task. By including the normative everyday forms of violence hidden in the minutiae of “normal” social practices - in the architecture of homes, in gender relations, in communal work, in the exchange of gifts, and so forth - Bourdieu forces us to reconsider the broader meanings and status of violence, especially the links between the violence of everyday life and explicit political terror and state repression, Similarly, Basaglia’s notion of “peacetime crimes” - crimini di pace - imagines a direct relationship between wartime and peacetime violence. Peacetime crimes suggests the possibility that war crimes are merely ordinary, everyday crimes of public consent applied systematic- ally and dramatically in the extreme context of war. Consider the parallel uses of rape during peacetime and wartime, or the family resemblances between the legalized violence of US immigration and naturalization border raids on “illegal aliens” versus the US government- engineered genocide in 1938, known as the Cherokee “Trail of Tears.” Peacetime crimes suggests that everyday forms of state violence make a certain kind of domestic peace possible. Internal “stability” is purchased with the currency of peacetime crimes, many of which take the form of professionally applied “strangle-holds.” Everyday forms of state violence during peacetime make a certain kind of domestic “peace” possible. It is an easy-to-identify peacetime crime that is usually maintained as a public secret by the government and by a scared or apathetic populace. Most subtly, but no less politically or structurally, the phenomenal growth in the United States of a new military, postindustrial prison industrial complex has taken place in the absence of broad-based opposition, let alone collective acts of civil disobedience. The public consensus is based primarily on a new mobilization of an old fear of the mob, the mugger, the rapist, the Black man, the undeserving poor. How many public executions of mentally deficient prisoners in the United States are needed to make life feel more secure for the affluent? What can it possibly mean when incarceration becomes the “normative” socializing experience for ethnic minority youth in a society, i.e., over 33 percent of young African American men (Prison Watch 2002). In the end it is essential that we recognize the existence of a genocidal capacity among otherwise good-enough humans and that we need to exercise a defensive hypervigilance to the less dramatic, permitted, and even rewarded everyday acts of violence that render participation in genocidal acts and policies possible (under adverse political or economic conditions), perhaps more easily than we would like to recognize. Under the violence continuum we include, therefore, all expressions of radical social exclusion, dehumanization, depersonal- ization, pseudospeciation, and reification which normalize atrocious behavior and violence toward others. A constant self-mobilization for alarm, a state of constant hyperarousal is, perhaps, a reasonable response to Benjamin’s view of late modern history as a chronic “state of emergency” (Taussig, Chapter 31). We are trying to recover here the classic anagogic thinking that enabled Erving Goffman, Jules Henry, C. Wright Mills, and Franco Basaglia among other mid-twentieth-century radically critical thinkers, to perceive the symbolic and structural relations, i.e., between inmates and patients, between concentration camps, prisons, mental hospitals, nursing homes, and other “total institutions.” Making that decisive move to recognize the continuum of violence allows us to see the capacity and the willingness - if not enthusiasm - of ordinary people, the practical technicians of the social consensus, to enforce genocidal-like crimes against categories of rubbish people. There is no primary impulse out of which mass violence and genocide are born, it is ingrained in the common sense of everyday social life. The mad, the differently abled, the mentally vulnerable have often fallen into this category of the unworthy living, as have the very old and infirm, the sick-poor, and, of course, the despised racial, religious, sexual, and ethnic groups of the moment. Erik Erikson referred to “pseudo- speciation” as the human tendency to classify some individuals or social groups as less than fully human - a prerequisite to genocide and one that is carefully honed during the unremark- able peacetimes that precede[s] the sudden, “seemingly unintelligible” outbreaks of mass violence. Collective denial and misrecognition are prerequisites for mass violence and genocide. But so are formal bureaucratic structures and professional roles. The practical technicians of everyday violence in the backlands of Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33), for example, include the clinic doctors who prescribe powerful tranquilizers to fretful and frightfully hungry babies, the Catholic priests who celebrate the death of “angel-babies,” and the municipal bureaucrats who dispense free baby coffins but no food to hungry families. Everyday violence encompasses the implicit, legitimate, and routinized forms of violence inherent in particular social, economic, and political formations. It is close to what Bourdieu (1977, 1996) means by “symbolic violence,” the violence that is often “nus-recognized” for something else, usually something good. Everyday violence is similar to what Taussig (1989) calls “terror as usual.” All these terms are meant to reveal a public secret - the hidden links between violence in war and violence in peace, and between war crimes and “peace-time crimes.” Bourdieu (1977) finds domination and violence in the least likely places - in courtship and marriage, in the exchange of gifts, in systems of classification, in style, art, and culinary taste- the various uses of culture. Violence, Bourdieu insists, is everywhere in social practice. It is misrecognized because its very everydayness and its familiarity render it invisible. Lacan identifies “rneconnaissance” as the prerequisite of the social. The exploitation of bachelor sons, robbing them of autonomy, independence, and progeny, within the structures of family farming in the European countryside that Bourdieu escaped is a case in point (Bourdieu, Chapter 42; see also Scheper-Hughes, 2000b; Favret-Saada, 1989). Following Gramsci, Foucault, Sartre, Arendt, and other modern theorists of power-vio- lence, Bourdieu treats direct aggression and physical violence as a crude, uneconomical mode of domination; it is less efficient and, according to Arendt (1969), it is certainly less legitimate. While power and symbolic domination are not to be equated with violence - and Arendt argues persuasively that violence is to be understood as a failure of power - violence, as we are presenting it here, is more than simply the expression of illegitimate physical force against a person or group of persons. Rather, we need to understand violence as encompassing all forms of “controlling processes” (Nader 1997b) that assault basic human freedoms and individual or collective survival. Our task is to recognize these gray zones of violence which are, by definition, not obvious. Once again, the point of bringing into the discourses on genocide everyday, normative experiences of reification, depersonalization, institutional confinement, and acceptable death is to help answer the question: What makes mass violence and genocide possible? In this volume we are suggesting that mass violence is part of a continuum, and that it is socially incremental and often experienced by perpetrators, collaborators, bystanders - and even by victims themselves - as expected, routine, even justified. The preparations for mass killing can be found in social sentiments and institutions from the family, to schools, churches, hospitals, and the military. They harbor the early “warning signs” (Charney 1991), the “priming” (as Hinton, ed., 2002 calls it), or the “genocidal continuum” (as we call it) that push social consensus toward devaluing certain forms of human life and lifeways from the refusal of social support and humane care to vulnerable “social parasites” (the nursing home elderly, “welfare queens,” undocumented immigrants, drug addicts) to the militarization of everyday life (super-maximum-security prisons, capital punishment; the technologies of heightened personal security, including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization

**Don’t take "one shot" extinction level claims—structural violence kills more than all wars combined. Existential threat framing shields the harms of structural violence.**
Dietrich **Fischer**, Pace University, and Jurgen Brauer, Augusta State University, Georgia, “Twenty Questions for Peace Economics: A Research Agenda,” Defence and Peace Economics, April **2002**, http://www.aug.edu/~sbajmb/paper-DPE.PDF
Poverty and high unemployment, especially in the presence of conspicuous wealth, contribute to frustration, social unrest, and sometimes civil war. It is easy to design an economy that produces luxuries for a few. Far more challenging is to design an economic system that satisfies the human needs for food, clothing, homes, education, and medical care of all. What are the characteristics of such an economy? What obstacles prevent it from emerging, and how can they be overcome? Galtung coined the notion of“structural violence” (as opposed to direct violence) for social conditions that cause avoidable human suffering and death, even if there is no specific actor committing the violence. Köhler and Alcock (1976) have estimated that structural violence causes about one hundred times as many deaths each year as all international and civil wars combined. It is as if over 200 Hiroshima bombs were dropped each year on the children of the world, but the media fail to report it because it is less dramatic than a bomb explosion. How can we estimate the loss of life resulting from poverty and unequal income distribution? How can we reduce it?


=Negative= 

==Disads== 

===Elections DA=== 

**Obama small win now – Tied on key issues, Polls prove**
Matthew John **Dowd** is an American political consultant chief strategist for the Bush-Cheney '04 campaign ABC's political contributor., **9/19**2012 In Presidential Decathlon, Obama is Winning,http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/09/dowd-in-presidential-decathlon-obama-is-winning/
¶ Thus far, I would suggest there are have been five moments of significance. President Obama has either won or tied in each of these, allowing him to build up a small but significant lead. Polls, when considered as a group, speak to this lead, revealing a race that right now is trending overall (and in all important states) as somewhere between a 1-point and 6-point Obama advantage. Nearly every poll falls within this range.¶ I have listened to many Republicans try to point to one poll as indicative of the race and ignore all the other data available. This is what I call confirmation bias. It is when we ignore information that runs counter to what we want to hear and we look for information that confirms what we desire. It happens all the time – in politics, and in life.

**Paying for transportation infrastructure tanks Obama’s election. There is no support for funding.**
**McBee Strategic Insight**, 2/3/**2012** (Washington Research: The McBee 2012 Preview – Transportation Infrastructure Investment: “The Responsibility of Governing,” p. 1)
Expected passage of a long-term aviation financing bill next week gives ground transportation advocates cause for hope, but that's likely a red-herring. The politics surrounding how to pay for infrastructure financing simply remain too hot to handle in an election year. President Obama has run away from any discussion of increasing the 18.4 cents per gallon federal gasoline tax, while Republicans won't support a tax increase of any kind to pay for new spending, even if some groups are willing to pay additional taxes. Those views are generally consistent with a voting public that wants to spend more on transportation infrastructure – but does not want to foot the bill out of their own wallets.

**Romney will rollback EPA protections --- results in CO2 emissions and air pollution.**
**Star Ledge’ 12** (June 03, 2012, “Scary times for environment -- especially if Mitt Romney wins”, http://blog.nj.com/njv_editorial_page/2012/06/scary_times_for_environment_--.html)
The grim report on jobs Friday greatly improves the odds that Republicans will win in November, putting Mitt Romney in the White House and bolstering GOP positions in the House and Senate.¶ If that happens, they promise to roll back the progress made under President Obama and Environmental Protection Agency administrator Lisa Jackson.¶ Romney wants to strip the EPA of its power to regulate carbon emissions. Jackson relied on that power to enact rules that will double automobile efficiency standards by 2025 and toughen truck standards, too.¶ Transportation is the largest single source of air pollution. So cutting emissions in half will make a profound change, especially in a car-centric state such as New Jersey. It also will reduce oil imports sharply, lessening our dangerous dependence on unstable regimes in the Mideast.¶ Jackson’s tough limits on coal-fired power plants rely partly on carbon controls, as well. So those gains would be endangered. Again, the air in New Jersey will get dirtier.¶ Because, while our own coal plants have exotic pollution control equipment, those to the west and south do not. Many lack even the most basic filters, known as scrubbers, and rely only on tall smoke stacks to push the toxins higher into the atmosphere.¶ The catch for New Jersey is this: Their toxins float into our air. Roughly one-third of our air pollution is imported, according to the state Department of Environmental Protection.¶ Romney also has promised to pull back on subsidies for green energy, and to preserve the tax breaks and subsidies for profitable oil and gas companies. With all this, it is no wonder the fossil fuel industries are pouring money into his campaign.¶ But that’s not all. Romney has promised a broad campaign to cut regulations on water and land, as well. He suggests that any new regulations would have to be approved by Congress, a frightening prospect if the extremists in the GOP strengthen their grip.¶ President Obama’s record on the environment is mixed. Even during his first two years, before Republicans took control of the House, he was unable to bring coal-state Democrats along to pass climate-change legislation. And in a few key areas, he has restrained Jackson from even using her regulatory powers, based on existing legislation, including the Clean Air Act.¶ Another problem is that most new threats are not covered by the old laws. Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.) has tried to strengthen the weak laws on toxic substances, for example, but has so far failed. If Republicans win in November, any chance of passage will be snuffed out.

**Warming causes extinction - a preponderance of evidence proves it's real, anthropogenic, and outweighs other threats**
**Deibel 7** — International Relations @ Naval War College (Terry, "Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic of American Statecraft," Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serous the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to het the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possible end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers form terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.

===Spending DA=== 

**Fiscal restraint momentum is gathering now- new legislation can undermine cooperation, undermining the economy.**
**New York Times, 6/10** Push for a Fiscal Pact Picks Up Speed, and Power By JONATHAN WEISMAN Published: June 10, 2012
For two years, backbench senators — some of them freshmen like Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and some of them iconoclasts like Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma — have been meeting off and on to try to find a bipartisan solution to the nation’s fiscal woes. What separated the unannounced Wednesday session, organized by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, from the earlier ones was the collective weight of the participants: the Senate’s No. 2 and No. 3 Democrats, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of New York; the chairman of the Finance Committee, Max Baucus; and the chairman of the Budget Committee, Kent Conrad. The hunt for a way to avert a crisis appears to be quickening — and, significantly, it now includes the people who might be able to make it happen. Senators who have been working fruitlessly on a budget deal since 2010, as the so-called Gang of Eight, say their efforts will get nowhere without help from Congressional leaders, especially the committee chairmen with the expertise to draft legislation. Those people are starting to come on board. “We’re making headway,” Mr. Baucus said cautiously on Thursday, confirming the Wednesday dinner, “but it’s important the Senate does not box itself out with legislation on the floor too quickly.” Republican leaders remain largely on the sideline. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican, applauded what he called “grass roots” negotiations, but conceded that neither he nor other party leaders had been directly involved, aside from efforts to stave off automatic defense cuts. Still, even he is making conciliatory comments on raising taxes, the issue that has kept Republican leaders from the table. The automatic tax increases and spending cuts are products of Washington’s failure to resolve its fiscal straits. Because Republicans could not win enough votes for permanent tax changes in 2001 and 2003, they used parliamentary maneuvers to enact the tax cuts, with an expiration date at the 2010. Rather than reach a permanent resolution then, President Obama and Congressional leaders punted the issue in December 2010 for two more years. The automatic spending cuts were mandated last August as a backup plan if negotiations in Congress on long-term deficit reduction failed. They did. About $100 billion needs to be found to cancel the first round of defense cuts, Mr. Kyl said. “Democrats want taxes to be a part of that,” he said in an interview. “Well, we think that’s a bad idea, but let’s sit down and talk.” With what the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, calls the “fiscal cliff” less than six months away, concern is growing. Last Tuesday, about 35 senators from both parties discussed the problem with the departing president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick, and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William C. Dudley, in a meeting previously reported by Politico. The dinner on Wednesday featured Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, and Robert D. Reischauer, a former Congressional Budget Office director and past president of the Urban Institute. On Monday, Mr. Baucus will deliver a speech to the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington on the path toward a simpler tax code that could generate more revenue. Later in the week, the Senate Finance Committee will meet on a host of tax issues. Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, has begun drafting legislation on entitlements and tax policy that he hopes will be a template for talks in the coming weeks. “There’s broad agreement on platitudes, but we haven’t seen any legislative language,” he said. “What we need now is to start talking about a tangible piece of legislation that people can read, that people can amend, that people can negotiate with.” But senators involved in the negotiations cautioned that a deal remained a ways away. Even as some lawmakers spoke of compromise, Senate Democrats gathered on Thursday with Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, to look over polling on their political strength defending entitlements like Medicare and Social Security. If Democrats head to the ramparts to defend entitlements, Republicans are likely to dig in against revenue increases. “We’ve got a lot of talking to do in the next few months,” said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia. He would not divulge the contents of the talks, saying that even discussing the efforts in public could set them back. The stakes are only now beginning to dawn on lawmakers, several senators said. Critical to the new push was a report last month by the Congressional Budget Office that predicted a recession if Congress allowed all of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire at the same time a host of other tax breaks lapsed and automatic spending cuts went into force. “That’s a big deal,” Mr. Kyl said. “Everybody’s starting to get worried about this, Democrat and Republican.” Mr. Zandi has run numbers on options for heading off a plunge over the cliff while beginning to address the trillion-dollar budget deficit. If nothing is done, several measures taken together would slow economic growth by 4.6 percentage points and thus set off a recession, according to Moody’s Analytics. They include the end of the Bush-era tax cuts, the beginning of the automatic spending cuts, plus an expansion of the alternative minimum tax. They also include the expiration of Mr. Obama’s payroll tax cut and emergency unemployment insurance and cuts to Medicare provider payments. But if the tax cuts are extended for households with incomes below $250,000, Medicare payments remain the same, the alternative minimum tax is kept at bay and the automatic spending cuts are cut in half, the economic hit could be held to 1.5 percentage points. Deficit reduction would be substantial and build confidence, Mr. Zandi said, and if Congress could reach a “grand bargain” on a long-term fiscal path forward, the impact on economic growth would be “huge” because a burst of business confidence in Washington could set off a wave of investment and hiring. Democratic leadership aides said top Democrats like Mr. Schumer had been wary about the negotiations of the Gang of Eight for more than a year, fearing that in their zeal for a deal, freshman Democrats would give away too much on Medicare and Social Security without getting real concessions from Republicans on revenues. But in recent weeks, enough Republicans have shifted their tone to give hope that a true compromise can be found.

**Fixing current infrastructure will take at least 45 billion dollars**
**Hammerman 6/18** [Luke Hammerman, writer for the observer, Wasted Money, “Wasted Time: U.S Lags Behind on Infrastructure”, [[http://observer.com/author/luke-hammerman/]]
Who wants to spend tax money on new roads and bridges and infrastructure? Not the U.S.! We hate taxes here, after all. The U.S. slowed down to from fifth to 24th in a ranking of infrastructure quality on a global level, according to a report released by the Council of Foreign Relations. And quality is not the only thing slowing down. Time and fuel wasted in traffic congestion cost the country $101 billion—or $713 per commuter in 2010. The percentage of economic growth in 2011 would have been .2 percentage points higher had the necessary infrastructure maintenance and improvements been made, according to the report, which was the first first installment of the Renewing America Report and Scorecard series. The answer? More money! The immediate cost of fixing the roads, bridges and railroads cannot be done with the $48 billion the government invests, but needs an increase of at least 60 percent. The report warns that the longer the government waits to fix the transit systems in place the cost ticks upwards.

**Spending kills the economy in this climate**
Conor **Murphy**, graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University with a degree in political science, 8/7/**2011** ["Dark economic times ahead," http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/political-pro-con/2011/aug/7/debt-federal-reserve-bernake-obama/]
While it is obvious that this market uncertainty is almost exclusively related to the national debt, the Treasury Department chalked it up to a flawed analysis and a 2 trillion dollar error. It appears that the new debt deal has scared investors and convinced the S&P that we cannot pay our bills. They're quite right. In an ideal world, this crisis might provide our elected officials enough evidence to realize that current policy is not working, but these are the same people who voted for TARP, the bank bailouts, the auto bailouts, and the stimulus bill. It should be no surprise that they assumed the debt deal would solve all of our problems. This is the kind of incompetence that Washington has seen from both parties for many years, and anyone who claims that the two parties are different should take a look at public policy for the last decade. The fix to this problem is no secret. Economists from the Austrian school and supporters of the free market know exactly what needs to be done, but no one is listening to them. Congress needs to make real cuts to spending, and not just cuts to proposed increases. Those are not real cuts, and yet we keep getting told that this deal will help reduce the debt. We may have avoided a default, but we are well on our way to an even bigger problem; a collapse of the dollar. With the Federal Reserve weakening the value of the dollar, the chance of a depression grows more likely everyday. Ben Bernanke and the rest of those at the Fed believe that keeping interest rates low is the best medicine for this ailing economy, but it is actually the poison making us grow weaker and weaker. When interest rates are below natural market value people make decisions that they wouldn't make normally, and when the crash comes it'll be too late. Printing money out of thin air will also do nothing but devalue the dollar and place an unseen tax on the American people who don't have the advantage of being bailed out by the federal government. If the dollar crashes, hyper inflation will set in and money will no longer even be worth the paper it is printed on. Assuming the United States wishes to avoid what happened to Germany in 1923, elected officials will have to look long and hard at fiscal policy and the role of the Federal Reserve when it comes to monetary policy. President Obama will almost certainly continue to downplay this action taken by S&P. There will be name calling, back stabbing and lies that will circle around this incident. The President is very much in danger of losing public support, and if he is not careful he will lose in 2012. Obama needs to understand not just what the problem is, but what is causing the problem. This event will most likely result in even more market regulation, the very cause of the financial meltdown. But unless the President wakes up tomorrow channeling the spirit of Barry Goldwater and suddenly understands free market economics, nothing will change. In the last few months, the S&P has begun to figure out what Austrian school free market economists have known for a while. The United States cannot keep going further into debt and expect to walk away unscathed. This action will only make the next economic downturn even worse. Kicking the can down the road has prolonged our economic problems for a while, but President Obama and the Congress are running out of road and they still don't see the cliff at the end.

**Economic decline causes war**
Mathew **Harris**, PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council, **and** Jennifer **Burrows,** Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit, April **2009** [“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]]
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

===Army Corps Tradeoff DA=== 

**Everglades funded now-it’s a priority.**
Pittman, 7/14/2012 (Craig – Tampa Bay Times staff writer, Federal officials promise another $80 million for Everglades restoration, Tampa Bay Times, p. http://www.tampabay.com/news/environment/federal-officials-promise-another-80-million-for-everglades-restoration/1240127)
The Everglades always draws a crowd in an election year. On Friday, several Obama administration officials held a news conference to announce that an additional $80 million had been set aside to help restore 23,000 acres of wetlands on farms and ranches in the northernmost reaches of the River of Grass. They also wanted to tout how the president, now running for re-election, had poured $1.5 billion into various Everglades projects over the past 3 1/2 years, jump-starting a federal effort that had languished under President George W. Bush. "The president has made restoration of the Everglades a national priority," U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the most senior of the four administration officials who flew in for the announcement.

**Everglades funding is a priority now, but the plan trades off with funding**
Quinlan, 2/15/2012 (Paul, E&E reporter, Army Corps: Obama’s budget touts navigation, but waterway interests aren’t happy, Greenwire, p. http://www.eenews.net/public/Greenwire/2012/02/15/4)
Despite boosting waterways projects, industry officials say, the budget proposal fails to provide enough for navigation and levees to ensure U.S. water infrastructure can adequately provide flood protection and help meet Obama's goal of doubling the nation's exports by 2015. The corps is under unprecedented pressure to do more with less. Spending caps imposed last year during the White House's debt-limit showdown with Congress have rendered the Army Corps' budget a zero-sum game for competing interests of navigation, flood control and ecosystem restoration. Adding to the pressure were epic floods last year along the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, which forced the agency to raid other accounts for its response. Congress provided $1.7 billion for the estimated $2 billion disaster. With so many needs and so little cash, few groups are thrilled by their prospects in the corps' budget sweepstakes. And waterways interests are pressing lawmakers to spend more on locks, levees and harbors and less on environmental restoration. A big competitor for cash is the massive Everglades restoration. Last year, about 10 percent of the Army Corps' construction budget went to the Everglades effort. The 30-year, $13.5 billion project was approved overwhelmingly by Congress and the Florida Legislature in 2000 as being essential to securing water supplies for 7 million people and protecting Everglades National Park and other federal parks and wildlife refuges. But Larson is telling lawmakers that some of that cash could pack more of an economic punch if spent on waterways. "It would seem to me," she said, "that the nation would be better served with a portion of that money focused on other projects which contribute more to the creation of jobs and our place in the global economy." Inland waterways face an $8 billion repair backlog, said Mike Toohey, president of the Waterways Council, a coalition of inland navigation interests. "The funding doesn't get anywhere near what the need is," Toohey said. 'Merit-based system' Environmentalists, whose interests see slight funding cuts in Obama's Army Corps budget proposal, cheered what they saw as the administration's continued support for ecosystems restoration, which also gets funding through the Interior Department and U.S. EPA. The Everglades project -- by far the most expensive environmental restoration project in the corps portfolio -- would receive $153 million under Obama's fiscal 2013 budget request for the agency, about $15 million less than the administration sought last year. Congress ultimately chopped last year's request to $142 million. Under pressure from Congress to cut spending and environmental programs in particular, the administration has pulled back on funding bestowed on the Everglades after Obama took office in 2009. The 2013 budget request is down significantly from more than $220 million the restoration received from the corps budget and federal stimulus in 2009 or the $214 million the administration requested in 2010. "They're trying to, I think, respect the message that's being given by Congress, while still putting forward their own priorities and their needs," said Julie Hill-Gabriel, Audubon Florida's director of Everglades policy. Overall, she said, there's reason for Everglades advocates to be pleased. All restoration projects authorized by Congress are now under construction, and Interior's budget proposal includes $58 million in Everglades-related spending -- including $3 million for establishing a new 150,000-acre wildlife refuge at the ecosystem's headwaters. "They're still making this a priority," Hill-Gabriel said. But the Everglades is facing competition for the corps' attention. The agency faces a $60 billion backlog in projects authorized but never funded by Congress. To appease as many congressional patrons as possible, a large number of projects are given small amounts of funding, leading to crippling construction delays and cost overruns.

**Everglades key to wetlands.**
Tercek, 7/13/2012 (Mark – president and CEO of the Nature Conservancy, $80 Million for Wetlands and Working Ranches Everglades, Nature Conservancy, p. http://blog.nature.org/2012/07/80-million-for-wetlands-and-working-ranches-in-the-everglades/)
In a time of tough budget scrutiny, the widespread support for conservation in the Everglades may seem surprising. Yet, despite partisan politics that seem to dominate today’s media, an overwhelming majority of Americans from all political perspectives value the protection of our natural resources, and are willing to invest in those resources for future generations. In a recent bipartisan poll done for the Conservancy, a striking 83 percent of respondents said they would be willing to pay additional taxes to protect American land, water and wildlife. Three quarters said that even with federal budget problems, funding for conservation should not be cut. These poll results confirm what we are seeing in Florida: that Americans across the political spectrum value the many ways nature benefits them and their communities. The Northern Everglades, for example, play a critical role in flood control and water supply for central and south Florida. Healthy wetlands act like a giant sponge, storing water in times of drought, holding it in times of flood, and filtering out nutrients that would otherwise be harmful to downstream areas. And what’s more, restoring wetlands is more cost-effective than man-made infrastructure like ditches, dikes and filtering plants designed to provide these same services.

**Extinction**
Ramsar Convention 1996, [“Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, Wetlands and Biodiversity, Executive Summary”, http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm]
Wetlands - including (inter alia) rivers, lakes, marshes, estuaries, lagoons, mangroves, seagrass beds, and peatlands - are among the most precious natural resources on Earth. These highly varied ecosystems are natural areas where water accumulates for at least part of the year. Driven by the hydrological cycle, water is continuously being recycled through the land, sea and atmosphere in a process which ensures the maintenance of ecological functions. Wetlands support high levels of biological diversity: they are, after tropical rainforests, amongst the richest ecosystems on this planet, providing essential life support for much of humanity, as well as for other species. Coastal wetlands, which may include estuaries, seagrass beds and mangroves, are among the most productive, while coral reefs contain some of the highest known levels of biodiversity (nearly one-third of all known fish species live on coral reefs). Other wetlands also offer sanctuary to a wide variety of plants, invertebrates, fishes, amphibians, reptiles and mammals, as well as to millions of both migratory and sedentary waterbirds. Wetlands are not only sites of exceptional biodiversity, they are also of enormous social and economic value, in both traditional and contemporary societies. Since ancient times, people have lived along water courses, benefiting from the wide range of goods and services available from wetlands. The development of many of the great civilisations was largely based on their access to, and management of, wetland resources. Wetlands are an integral part of the hydrological cycle, playing a key role in the provision and maintenance of water quality and quantity as the basis of all life on earth. They are often interconnected with other wetlands, and they frequently constitute rich and diverse transition zones between aquatic ecosystems and terrestrial ecosystems such as forests and grasslands.

===Coercion DA=== 

**Federal infrastructure investment undermines freedom and private property rights- kicking the ones at the bottom to the curb**
**Carson** (a senior fellow and holder of the Karl Hess Chair in Social Theory at the Center for a Stateless Society) 11/**10**
(Kevin, “The Distorting Effects of Transportation Subsidies”, [[http://www.thefreemanonline.org/features/the-distorting-effects-of-transportation-subsidies/]]) chip
It’s hard to avoid the conclusion that the dominant business model in the American economy, and the size of the prevailing corporate business unit, are direct results of such policies. A subsidy to any factor of production amounts to a subsidy of those firms whose business models rely most heavily on that factor, at the expense of those who depend on it the least. Subsidies to transportation, by keeping the cost of distribution artificially low, tend to lengthen supply and distribution chains. They make large corporations operating over wide market areas artificially competitive against smaller firms producing for local markets—not to mention big-box retailers with their warehouses-on-wheels distribution model.¶ Some consequentialists treat this as a justification for transportation subsidies: Subsidies are good because they make possible mass-production industry and large-scale distribution, which are (it is claimed) inherently more efficient (because of those magically unlimited “economies of scale,” of course).¶ Tibor Machan argued just the opposite in the February 1999 Freeman:¶ Some people will say that stringent protection of rights [against eminent domain] would lead to small airports, at best, and many constraints on construction. Of course—but what’s so wrong with that?¶ Perhaps the worst thing about modern industrial life has been the power of political authorities to grant special privileges to some enterprises to violate the rights of third parties whose permission would be too expensive to obtain. The need to obtain that permission would indeed seriously impede what most environmentalists see as rampant—indeed reckless—industrialization.¶ The system of private property rights . . . is the greatest moderator of human aspirations. . . . In short, people may reach goals they aren’t able to reach with their own resources only by convincing others, through arguments and fair exchanges, to cooperate.¶ In any case, the “efficiencies” resulting from subsidized centralization are entirely spurious. If the efficiencies of large-scale production were sufficient to compensate for increased distribution costs, it would not be necessary to shift a major portion of the latter to taxpayers to make the former profitable. If an economic activity is only profitable when a portion of the cost side of the ledger is concealed, and will not be undertaken when all costs are fully internalized by an economic actor, then it’s not really efficient. And when total distribution costs (including those currently shifted to the taxpayer) exceed mass-production industry’s ostensible savings in unit cost of production, the “efficiencies” of large-scale production are illusory.

**Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance of coercion is key.**
**Petro, 1974**
[Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html]
However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - "I believe in only one thing: liberty." And it is always well to bear in mind David Hume's observation: "It is seldom that liberty of any kind is lost all at once." Thus, it is unacceptable to say that the invasion of one aspect of freedom is of no importance because there have been invasions of so many other aspects. That road leads to chaos, tyranny, despotism, and the end of all human aspiration. Ask Solzhenitsyn. Ask Milovan Dijas. In sum, if one believed in freedom as a supreme value and the proper ordering principle for any society aiming to maximize spiritual and material welfare, then every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.

==Counterplans== 

===States CP - Rail=== 

**Federal investment in rail fails. Devolution solves.**
**O’Toole 06** Randal O’Toole, 1/5/06, director of the Thoreau Institute and an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute, “A Desire Named Streetcar¶ How Federal Subsidies Encourage Wasteful ¶ Local Transit Systems,” The Cato Institute, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa559.pdf]] linja
Unfortunately, those changes cannot alter¶ the fundamental problem. Just as Congress¶ now includes thousands of earmarks in the¶ transportation reauthorization bills when a¶ few decades ago there were almost none, a¶ transportation bill amended as described¶ above would still be susceptible to powerful¶ members of Congress seeking exemptions¶ for their states or districts. In the long run,¶ the best solution for transit riders and taxpayers would be to get the federal government out of the urban transportation business entirely.¶ Devolution of federal urban transportation programs to state and local governments would likely result in better transit service for transit-dependent people as well as¶ better transportation for everyone else.¶ Transit agencies would be encouraged to¶ focus more on their customers and less on¶ powerful members of Congress who want to¶ build urban monuments. Supporters of bet-¶ 13¶ ter transportation policy should work¶ toward this goal before the next reauthorization bill is due in five years.

===States CP - Inland Waterways=== 

**State government solves better, better resources, avoids political ploy, and effective**
Chris **Edwards** (the director of tax policy studies at Cato) March **2012** “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers” [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/usace]] /Rohit
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is a federal agency that constructs and maintains a wide range of infrastructure for military and civilian purposes.1 This essay concerns the civilian part of the agency, which employs about 23,000 people and will spend about $9.2 billion in fiscal 2012.2 The civilian part of the Corps—called "civil works"—builds and operates locks, channels, and other navigation infrastructure on river systems. It also builds flood control structures, dredges seaports, manages thousands of recreation sites, and owns and operates hydroelectric power plants across the country. While the Army Corps has built some impressive infrastructure, many of its projects have been economically or environmentally dubious. The agency's activities have often subsidized private interests at the expense of federal taxpayers. Furthermore, the Corps has a history of distorting its cost-benefit analyses in order to justify its projects. The civilian side of the Corps grew out of the engineering expertise gained by the agency's military activities early in the nation's history. In mid-19th century, Congress began adding civilian missions to the Corps in response to political demands and various natural disasters. Today we are left with an agency involved in far flung activities such as beach replenishment, upgrades to city water systems, agriculture irrigation, clean-up of hazardous waste sites, and efforts to revive the Florida Everglades. The Corps has been greatly mismanaged over the decades, with problems ranging from frequent cost overruns on projects to the major engineering failures that contributed to the disaster of Hurricane Katrina. In addition, the dominance of special-interest politics on the agency's activities has resulted in it supporting many wasteful projects. Fortunately, most of the Corps' activities do not need to be carried out by the federal government. Some of its activities—such as flood control and the management of recreational areas—should be turned over to state and local governments. Other activities—such as seaport dredging and hydropower generation—should be turned over to the private sector. This essay focuses on cutting the Corps' spending activities, and does not address the calls for reforming the agency's regulatory functions.3 The following sections look at the history of the Army Corps, the pork-barrel nature of its spending, its legacy of mismanagement, and its role in Hurricane Katrina. The essay concludes that the bulk of the agency's civilian activities and assets should be privatized or transferred to state and local governments. The remaining activities of the Corps that are truly federal in nature should be transferred to the Department of the Interior. The civilian side of the Army Corps should be closed down. Two Centuries of Mission Creep The U.S. military has needed engineering services since General George Washington sought French engineers to help him prosecute the Revolutionary War.4 In 1802 Congress created a separate and permanent Army Corps of Engineers focused on military support activities. However, as the 19th century progressed, the Corps became increasingly involved in civilian activities, such as river navigation and flood control. One activity led to the next, and today's sprawling Army Corps is the result of two centuries of mission creep. As an engineering-based agency, the Corps has had a pro-construction mentality since the beginning. It has always been eager to expand its budget and build new structures. At the same time, members of Congress have been eager to have the Corps tackle projects in their states and districts, especially those members from states that have major rivers, seaports, and other water resources. In 1824 the Supreme Court decision in Gibbons v. Ogden gave the green light to federal involvement in river navigation activities. The same year, Congress provided $75,000 to the Corps to improve navigation on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, and it also gave the Corps a role in civilian surveying activities.5 However, there have been concerns about the efficiency of the Corps' civilian activities since the beginning. In 1836 the House Ways and Means Committee called for reform because it discovered that at least 25 of the agency's projects were overbudget.6 Nonetheless, Congress kept expanding the Corps' civilian activities, and by 1882 the agency was spending $19 million annually on 371 separate projects.7 A number of congressional acts beginning in 1850 directed the Corps to aid with flood control on the Mississippi River. In 1861 an influential report set the Corps on a misguided "levees only" flood-control strategy.8 Repeated floods in subsequent decades that broke through levees did not deter the Corps from its strategy.9 After damaging floods in the early 20th century, Congress passed the Flood Control Act of 1917, which further expanded the Corps' levee-construction activities along major rivers. In 1927 one of the most damaging floods in U.S. history occurred when the Mississippi River and its tributaries broke out of extensive levee systems in many places. The flood dramatically illustrated the failure of the Corps' single-minded approach to flood control that focused on building levees. In annual reports leading up to the disastrous 1927 flood, the Corps had confidently told Congress that the Mississippi was safe from serious flooding.10 After the flood, Editorial Research Reports noted that many experts thought that the "levees only" policy was unwise, but the Corps still resisted reforms. In a 1927 story the news service said: "After each flood there has been sharp criticism of the policy of placing sole reliance on the levee system, but the Army engineers heretofore have always successfully defended their position before Congress."11 The Corps did adjust its strategy somewhat, but the scope of its construction increased under flood control acts of 1928 and later years. The agency had failed, but its budget was greatly boosted.12 Journalist Michael Grunwald noted of the "levees only" approach that worsened the 1927 flood: "Congress rewarded this failure by allowing the Corps to seize control of the entire river and its tributaries, an unprecedented big government project that foreshadowed the New Deal."13 During the 1930s, huge flood control projects were embraced as a way to create jobs, and the Corps—along with other federal agencies—spearheaded efforts to drain wetlands across the nation.14 In his classic book about federal water infrastructure, Cadillac Desert, Marc Reisner said that the Corps has "ruined more wetlands than anyone in history, except perhaps its counterpart in the Soviet Union."15 The Corps' efforts to dam rivers for flood control led to its involvement in hydroelectric power. At the beginning of the 20th century, a political battle was waged over private versus government development of hydropower. At first, the Army Corps teamed with private power companies to build plants at its dam sites. But in the 1920s Congress authorized the Corps to start building its own plants, and by the 1930s huge federal power projects were being pursued, such as Bonneville Dam in Oregon. Once the Corps was building dams and reservoirs, the next step was to build and operate recreation sites near its facilities, which Congress authorized it to do in legislation of 1944 and later years. Today, the Corps operates more than 4,200 recreation areas across the nation.16 The Corps has a history of supporting environmentally damaging projects, although it has tried to adopt a "green" image in recent years. Since 1992 the agency has expanded into municipal water supply and wastewater treatment facilities, and 400 such projects have been authorized to date.17 In 2000 the Corps helped launch an almost $8 billion effort to fix the Florida Everglades—a project that is needed in part because of the damage done by the Corps' own infrastructure in prior decades.18 For example, taxpayers paid for the Corps to straighten Florida's Kissimmee River in the 1960s, but that project was later determined to have been misguided. So today taxpayers are paying for the Corps to restore the Kissimmee River's original meandering course.19 Bad environmental decisions by the Corps have thus cost federal taxpayers doubly. While the Corps is part of the executive branch of government, the president has often had little control over its activities. The Corps has usually taken orders directly from Congress, and particularly from those members who have their hands on the agency's purse strings. For decades, presidents have complained about their lack of control over the Corps, and some have even tried to cancel its most wasteful projects. President Jimmy Carter famously tried to save taxpayer money and stop 19 environmentally damaging water resource projects in the 1970s. He wanted to "get the Corps of Engineers out of the dam-building business," but he misplayed the politics of the issue and Congress was "swift and angry" in blocking Carter's proposals.20 President Ronald Reagan's reform efforts were a bit more successful. He pushed to increase local cost-sharing for Corps' projects, and that reform passed in 1986. The reform increased "the price of pork" for project supporters, which marginally reduced the incentive for local interests to lobby for federal subsidies.21 President Bill Clinton tried to cut wasteful Corps' projects, but big-spending Republicans in Congress helped to block his efforts.22 President George W. Bush had some success at canceling wasteful Corps' projects, but a 2007 authorization bill for the agency was passed over his veto.23 Occasionally, the Corps has tried to save money by making its operations more efficient, such as by closing down some of its district offices. However, Congress has usually blocked such cost-saving efforts.24 Similarly, members of Congress usually block efforts to close unneeded post offices or farm offices in their districts. Such congressional parochialism is one reason why the government can never operate as efficiently as a private business. A Pork-Barrel Machine The decentralized and congressionally dominated structure of the Army Corps has made it an unparalleled pork-barrel machine. Virtually all the agency's construction budget is "earmarked" for individual projects in particular states. Politics dominates any rational process of trying to fund only those projects that have high returns. Taxpayer money is often directed to low-value projects in the districts of powerful politicians, not to those projects that make the most economic sense. While Corps' projects are supposed to be based on detailed economic and environmental analyses, political pull often determines the agency's priorities. In an investigation of the Corps in 2003, the Washington Post noted that "powerful members of Congress dictate the selection, pace, and price tag for major projects."25 While levee upgrades in central New Orleans were stalled prior to Hurricane Katrina, dubious projects elsewhere in Louisiana and other states moved ahead. Leading lawmakers have long used the Corps as a tool to aid farm businesses, shipping companies, barge firms, developers, and other businesses in their states. An observer of the Corps in 1952 noted that the agency makes alliances between local businesses and "two or three congressional committee chairmen. Together they drive through the Congress whatever proposals they wish, irrespective of the public interest."26 In recent years, many of the champions of dubious Corps' projects have been Republicans, including Sen. Thad Cochran (R-MS) and former senators Trent Lott (R-MS) and Christopher Bond (R-MO).27 The Corps' decentralized structure, which has been in place since 1893, encourages pork-barrel spending.28 The structure consists of headquarters, eight regional divisions, and 38 local district offices, which plan, construct, and maintain projects. Members of Congress and local interest groups are plugged into the projects of their particular offices, and they resist any cuts to them. Political scientist Melvin Dubnick noted that the Corps' "civil works management structure created a unique situation where political responsiveness was nurtured and constantly reinforced."29 A 2004 report by Taxpayers for Common Sense and the National Wildlife Federation described an "iron triangle" of interests between the Corps, members of Congress, and local special interests.30 The upshot is that the Corps' funding of infrastructure is often misallocated. State and local officials could better balance the costs and benefits of the Corps' local projects if their own taxpayers were paying the bills. Federal involvement in local infrastructure also creates a lack of accountability. For example, all three levels of government had responsibility for elements of flood control and hurricane response in New Orleans, but none of them had properly prepared for the disaster of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. A Legacy of Mismanagement The Army Corps has built some impressive structures, such as the Washington Monument and the Panama Canal. But the agency's projects have been prone to large cost overruns, and they have often not produced the large benefits promised. Some projects have suffered from major failures, such as the levee system in New Orleans, while other projects have damaged the environment. These sorts of problems started in the 19th century. Melvin Dubnick notes that in the post–Civil War period, "the wastefulness and mismanagement of Corps' operations were the subject of many articles in the professional and popular press of the time, and a growing list of fiascoes was being used by the agency's enemies to challenge its effort to develop a more comprehensive civil works program."31 In 1951 Arthur Maass wrote an influential book about the Army Corps, Muddy Waters, which detailed the agency's politically driven decisions and poor planning processes.32 In the forward to the book, former secretary of the Interior, Harold Ickes, said, "no more lawless or irresponsible federal group than the Corps of Army Engineers has ever attempted to operate in the United States, either inside or outside the law."33 The opinion of Ickes was harsh, but it reflected a common view that the Corps was outside of presidential control and working for special interests at the expense of the general public. A 1971 book by Arthur Morgan, Dams and other Disasters, was even more critical. The book rips into the Corps for its arrogant and damaging mismanagement. Morgan found that "there have been over the past 100 years consistent and disastrous failures by the Corps in public works areas . . . result[ing] in enormous and unnecessary costs to ecology [and] the taxpayer."34 Morgan was a former chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority and a highly distinguished engineer, who had worked on water resource issues for decades. In his book, he documents how the Corps—with a bullheaded mentality—consistently underestimated the costs of its projects, followed shoddy engineering practices, treated Native American tribes poorly, lied to the public, hid information, pursued environmentally damaging projects, and demonized its enemies in order to silence dissent. Some of these charges still ring true. The nation was reacquainted with the Corps' shoddy engineering with the tragic failure of the levees in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina. In recent years, the Corps has hidden information from the public, and has been caught distorting economic analyses to justify wasteful projects. Because of its pro-construction mindset, the Corps continues to pursue projects that would damage the environment and produce limited economic benefits. In recent decades, for example, "the Corps has channelized dozens of rivers for barges that never arrived."35 These longstanding problems are the result both of the agency's pro-building culture and congressional politics. The ad hoc way that the agency's projects are funded creates further problems. New projects are typically authorized in Water Resources Development Acts, which are passed every few years. The last of such acts was enacted in 2007 over a veto by President George W. Bush.36 After authorization, each project included may or may not receive funding a year at a time in annual appropriations bills. The problem is that Congress has crammed far too many projects into the Corps' pipeline, with the result that progress on each project is slow and erratic. For example, Congress has authorized more than 400 municipal water and sewer projects for the Corps, with a total price tag of more than $5 billion. However, only about $140 million or so is actually appropriated for these projects each year.37 The slow progress of Corps' projects contrasts with private sector construction projects, which are built as quickly as possible to hold down costs. A Government Accountability Office report on the Corps found that "funding projects in increments hinders project efficiency by increasing costs and timelines."38 One Corps' official told the GAO, "this is one of the reasons that a civil works project takes 20 years to execute, instead of 3 if we were fully funded from the start."39 The Corps currently has a backlog of more than 1,000 feasibility studies and construction projects worth more than $80 billion that have been authorized but not funded.40 The Corps is an engineering and construction organization, and in our economy such activities are usually carried out by private businesses. The Corps has never been run like a private business—it doesn't have an efficient structure, it doesn't pursue the highest-return projects, and it doesn't construct projects quickly and efficiently. Former Senate majority leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) said the Corps is "one of the most incompetent and inept organizations in all the federal government."41 The good news is that we don't need a civilian Army Corps organization because most of its functions could be carried out by state and local governments and the private sector. Wasteful Projects and Faulty Analyses The Army Corps is supposed to do a careful and detailed analysis of proposed projects to ensure that the benefits will outweigh the costs. However, the Corps has often pursued projects based on analyses that were theoretically flawed, had faulty data, or had been deliberately manipulated. The costs of projects are often underestimated and the benefits overestimated. The Corps does the analyses of proposed projects that it will build itself, thus it usually favors big and expensive projects.42 The Pentagon's inspector general found that the Corps has a "systemic bias" towards large-scale construction.43 A number of years ago, a series of leaked internal memos by Corps' leaders revealed a strategy to "get creative" in accounting in order to "get to yes as fast as possible" on proposed projects.44 The bias in the agency's analyses has been a problem for decades. In a 1952 book, Sen. Paul Douglas (D-IL) noted that the Corps has "never been restrained in estimating the benefits which will result from their projects and . . . in recent years [has] greatly underestimated the costs."45 As governor of Georgia in the 1970s, Jimmy Carter complained of "computational manipulation" and dishonesty by the Corps regarding a proposed dam in his state.46 Arthur Morgan's 1971 book provides many examples of how the Corps provided faulty analyses over many decades.47 He concludes that "many of the Corps' projects cost two or more times the amount of the first estimates."48 He quotes House Appropriations chairman Clarence Cannon in 1959 saying that the Corps was either "incompetent or deliberately misleading" Congress with its routinely faulty cost estimates.49 Corps' managers and analysts are encouraged to "get to yes" by the local interests that benefit from projects and by their congressional sponsors. Over the decades, the Corps has proactively searched the nation looking for places to pour concrete.50 The consequence of the agency's eagerness to build and the political pressure to spend is the construction of numerous white elephant projects.51 Journalist Michael Grunwald notes that investigations "have repeatedly caught the Corps skewing its analyses to justify wasteful and destructive projects that keep its employees busy and its congressional patrons happy."52 A 2006 Government Accountability Office report found that the analyses supporting a number of Corps' projects were "fraught with errors, mistakes and miscalculations, and used invalid assumptions and outdated data."53 Furthermore, the GAO report found that "the Corps' analyses often understated costs and overstated benefits."54 Studies for inland waterway projects, for example, have used inflated barge traffic projections to justify approval. In 2002 the GAO lambasted a Corps' study justifying a $332 million project to deepen a ship channel in the Delaware River. It said that the study "was based on miscalculations, invalid assumptions, and outdated information."55 The GAO found that "the project benefits for which there is credible support would be about $13.3 million a year, as compared to the $40.1 million a year claimed" by the Corps.56 Having efficient and modernized ports is important to the U.S. economy, and supporters of the Delaware project have completed newer analyses claiming large positive returns.57 But why does the federal government need to be involved? If this project makes economic sense, state and local governments and nearby businesses—such as oil refineries—should be willing to fund it themselves. The Corps and some members of Congress have pushed a $108 million project to drain tens of thousands of acres of flood-prone land in Southeastern Missouri to benefit a small number of corn, soybean, and cotton farmers.58 The area currently acts as a beneficial relief valve for the Mississippi River during floods. Many experts think that this project is absurd, but the Corps sought to speed project approval on the basis of a manipulated cost-benefit analysis.59 In 2007 D.C. District Court Judge James Robertson harshly criticized the Corps' analysis as "arbitrary and capricious," and he said that "the Corps has demonstrated its willingness to do whatever it takes to proceed."60 The Corps also cooked the books on a study for a $2 billion project for navigation improvements on the Upper Mississippi River. An initial Corps' analysis found that the project wasn't cost effective, so senior agency officials fiddled with the numbers to get a more favorable result.61 Studies by the Army's Inspector General and the National Academy of Sciences found that the Corps' study justifying this project was bogus.62 Members of Congress are often indignant when their pet projects are threatened by evaluations showing that they don't make economic sense. With regard to the Upper Mississippi project, then-senator Christopher Bond (R-MO) "vowed to make sure the projects are funded no matter what the economic studies ultimately conclude."63 Similarly, the former head of the Senate subcommittee overseeing the Corps, George Voinovich (R-OH), blurted out at a hearing, "We don't care what the Corps cost-benefit is . . . we're going to build it anyhow because Congress says it's going to be built."64 Or consider one senator's response when her project to aid the shipping industry in Louisiana was threatened: "After a $194 million deepening project for the Port of Iberia flunked a Corps cost-benefit analysis, Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) tucked language into an emergency Iraq spending bill ordering the agency to redo its calculations."65 Aside from economics, many Corps' projects don't make sense from an environmental perspective. The Congressional Research Service says that "the Corps has been widely criticized for the environmental harm its water resources projects have caused to ecosystems."66 For example, the Corps' single-minded efforts since the 1940s to redirect water flows in Florida to aid developers and farmers have damaged the Everglades.67 Federal sugar subsides have added to the damage. Taxpayers are now footing the bill for an almost $8 billion Corps' effort to reverse the damage to the Everglades caused by prior federal policies.68 The Corps' navigation and flood-control structures on the Mississippi and other rivers may have actually made flooding worse over the decades by forcing rivers into narrow channels, destroying wetlands, and encouraging the development of flood-prone areas.69 River navigation is important to the economy, but the Corps seems to have long undervalued the negative effects that its projects are having. A study by Taxpayers for Common Sense and the National Wildlife Federation in 2004 identified 29 Corps' projects that they argued would impose environmental damage and waste a total of $12 billion.70 Similarly, a group of taxpayer and environmental groups produce an annual "Green Scissors" report, which lists billions of dollars in dubious Corps' spending.71 Environmental groups often support wrongheaded anti-development positions, but fiscal conservatives find common cause with environmentalists in opposing government subsidies for dubious projects.

===States CP - Port Security=== 

**States solve best – Local knowledge of ports is key.**
**Keefer**, J.D, **2008** (Wendy J. “Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect The Homeland and The International Supply Chain” Campbell Law Review Vol. 30:139)
To consider competently any proposed method for undertaking to secure container shipments, an understanding must exist about the functioning of the particular port, the most likely risks of criminal activity faced by that port, and the resources available for combating those activities. A port that primarily handles cargo faces different issues than one typically used for passenger travel. Similarly, the volume of cargo or passengers will impact how the port operates, as well as what types of security measures are even feasible. In this regard, the current status of the ports in Charleston, South Carolina and Wilmington, North Carolina is instructive of the need for container security for shipments to these ports.

===Guam CP=== 

**Guam is expected to fund infrastructure for the buildup**
Brian J. **Lepore**, Director Defense Capabilities and Management, US GAO, 11-13-**09**, [“Subject: Defense Infrastructure: Guam Needs Timely Information from DOD to Meet Challenges in Planning and Financing Off-Base Projects and Programs to Support a Larger Military Presence,” United States Government Accountability Office, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510493]]] E. Liu
The Department of Defense’s (DOD) plans to increase the U.S. military presence on Guam are expected to increase the island’s current military population by about two and a half times by 2020. If implemented as planned, this realignment would increase the military population on Guam from about 15,000 in 2009 to about 29,000 in 2014, and to more than 39,000 by 2020, which will increase the current island population of 178,430 by about 14 percent over those years. The largest portion of the military’s population growth is related to the relocation of about 8,000 Marines and their 9,000 dependents from Okinawa, Japan, to Guam as part of an agreement between the United States and Government of Japan to reduce forces in Japan while maintaining a continuing presence of U.S. forces in the region. The populations of each of the other military services also are expected to increase as a result of DOD plans to expand their operations and presence on Guam. DOD plans to fund DOD-owned and on-base infrastructure to support the military realignment and buildup, such as roads, buildings, and other facilities, while the government of Guam is expected to be largely responsible for funding and constructing government of Guam-owned off-base roads and utilities and providing certain public services.

**Selling bonds overcomes the only funding challenges of debt ceiling and deficit and growth from buildup solves its economy**
Brian J. **Lepore**, Director Defense Capabilities and Management, US GAO, 11-13-**09**, [“Subject: Defense Infrastructure: Guam Needs Timely Information from DOD to Meet Challenges in Planning and Financing Off-Base Projects and Programs to Support a Larger Military Presence,” United States Government Accountability Office, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510493]]] E. Liu
The government of Guam faces two key challenges in financing off-base infrastructure projects and programs required to support a larger military and civilian population resulting from the military buildup. First, the impact of Guam’s debt ceiling on the ability of the government of Guam to incur debt to help fund off-base projects and programs is uncertain. While the Organic Act of Guam includes a statutory debt limitation on government borrowing, limiting Guam’s public indebtedness to no more than 10 percent of the aggregate tax valuation of the property on Guam, not all government obligations are included in this debt ceiling. For example, bonds or other obligations of the government of Guam payable solely from revenues derived from any public improvement or undertaking are not considered public indebtedness of Guam within the meaning of this limitation. Thus, until the precise form and terms of the debt that the government of Guam might contemplate for the purposes of the military buildup on Guam is known, the impact that Guam’s debt ceiling may have on the ability of the government of Guam to incur such a debt obligation is unclear. Second, the government of Guam’s operating deficit was approximately $415 million at the time of our review, and this deficit can affect Guam’s ability to borrow because of questions about the extent to which additional debt service payments are affordable. Officials from Guam’s Bureau of the Budget and Management said that they will have difficulty finding revenue sources to close the current deficit while also attempting to fund projects related to the military buildup. Nonetheless, the government of Guam may have some ability to raise revenue through issuing bonds despite the deficit. In June 2009, the government of Guam sold $473.5 million worth of bonds to help pay for cost-of-living adjustments owed to government of Guam retirees and tax refund payments owed to residents, and to fund part of the construction of a new landfill to help meet projected expansion needs, demonstrating that a market may exist among investors for Guam’s debt. Also, Guam’s ability to finance needed infrastructure projects could improve because of potentially improved local economic conditions as the military buildup continues. We have previously reported that available studies indicate that communities surrounding military growth installations can expect to realize economic benefits stemming from the growth.

===IMF CP=== 

**DEBT CANCELLATION SOLVES NEOLIBERALISM - all sates are under the control of first world debt.**
Robert **Naiman,** senior researcher for CEPR, **99**(“No Jubilee for the Middle East?”Middle East Report, No. 213, Millennial Middle East: Changing Orders, Shifting Borders. (Winter, 1999), pp. 13-15.)
The campaign for debt cancellation has broad implications for people in the Middle East. It challenges the global role of the IMF and the World Bank and enhances the prospects for opposition to the economic model being promoted and imposed throughout the developing world by the IMF and US Treasury on behalf ofwall Street and multinational corporations. If debt campaigners succeed in forcing the IMF and the World Bank to cancel debt from their own resources it will affect future relationsbetween the US-run IMF and other countries.It is precisely for this reason that the IMF, the World Bank and the US Treasury vigorously oppose the movement to cancel debts, which everyone knows are un- payable, because they correctly perceive cancellation as a threat to their ability to impose their agenda on developing countries.From the point of view of the IMFand US Treasury, debt cancellation would set a "dangerous precedent": Like Cold War dominoes, all developing countries might demand more freedom and a better deal.

==Kritiks== 

===Security K=== 

**Infrastructure development is built on a framework of securitization**
**De Goede 08** (Marieke, Senior Lecturer at the Department of European Studies of the University of Amsterdam. “Beyond Risk: Premediation and the Post-9/11 Security Imagination,” Security Dialogue 2008 39: 155, Sage)
Indeed, terrorism scenarios and the ambition of viewing the world ‘from the terrorist’s point of view’ entail what Peter Galison (2001: 30) calls a ‘bizarre, and yet pervasive species of Lacanian modeling’ that encourages Americans and Europeans to see themselves and their infrastructures through the enemy’s eye. Galison (2001: 29) shows how postwar American urban planning was informed by a security discourse that appealed to the planners to ‘imagine the worst’ and see their cities through the ‘bombardier’s eye’. Such security imagination entailed identifying attractive targets on the American continent, which, in turn, had substantial influence on present urban planning decisions. These became motivated by desire to seek dispersal in order to preempt the enemy’s attack. As Galison (2001: 30) puts it, ‘each community, each industry, each factory was pressed into service this way, pressed to see itself this way. . . . This was an enlistment, an attempt to draw localities into a frame of mind, a form of moral-cartographic vision’. In this way, the very urban fabric of postwar America was directly influenced by speculative security imaginations. The flexible disaster imaginations deployed by RMS and companies like it are akin to the processes of ‘Lacanian modelling’ as analysed by Galison. These processes deploy and exceed practices of modern risk calculation. On the one hand, as Galison (2001: 17–19) demonstrates, calculative risk practices were fostered that entailed geographical and demographic assessments of vulnerabilities, target zones and safety lines. On the other hand, these assessments were self-consciously speculative: they were not so much based on prevention of statistically measurable occurrences as they were based on the imagination of unique and unprecedented disaster scenarios, such as the ‘imagined case of a Hiroshima-scale nuclear weapon detonated several thousand feet above a 260-acre rectangle in Manhattan’: How many of the 35,000 people residing between 59th and 72nd Streets . . . would become casualties if a weapon were to be exploded at 2am? How many minutes’ warning would they have to take shelter? How much radiation would they receive? Would a firestorm erupt? (Galison 2001: 20) Just as this kind of disaster imagination structured postwar urban dispersal in the USA, contemporary security premediation influences urban built environments through what Stephen Graham (2006: 258) calls, partly with Jonathan Raban’s words, ‘a sense of imminent but inexact catastrophe, lurking just beneath the surface of normal, technologized, (sub)urbanized everyday life’. The ‘reengineering’ of the spaces of everyday life – which include not just urban infrastructures but also, for example, financial architectures (Atia, 2007; de Goede, 2006) – exceeds risk calculation insofar as it depends upon the proliferation of discourses of fear, coupled with demands for absolute safety (see Graham, 2006: 258–260). Practices like those of RMS inevitably produce a sense of fragility of the self, for the multiple scary scenarios and attacks imagined in the RMS document, accompanied by images of real violence and fires in their brochures, do little to make one feel secure. This fragility and insecurity, in turn, is what fosters the profitability of RMS and companies like it (Ericson & Doyle, 2004).

**The dream of security produces apocalypse– constructions of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape**
**Coviello 2k** Pever Coviello, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, 2k [Queer Frontiers, p. 39-40]
Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way postapocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed-it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida’s suitably menacing phrase) "remainderless and a-symbolic destruction," then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively local. In shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings somewhere else, always to an "other" people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and prosperity of a cherished "general population." This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag's incisive observation, from 1989, that, 'Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not 'Apocalypse Now' but 'Apocalypse from Now On."" The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction-through the constant reproduction of the figure of apocalypse-agencies of power ensure their authority to act on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of The History of Sexuality addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, "life-administering." Power, he contends, "exerts a positive influence on life land, endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations?' In his brief comments on what he calls "the atomic situation;' however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as "managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race," agencies of modern power presume to act 'on the behalf of the existence of everyone." Whatsoever might be construed as a threat to life and survival in this way serves to authorize any expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. "If genocide is indeed the dream of modem power," Foucault writes, "this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population." For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.


**Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought**
**Neocleous 8** Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 2008 [Critique of Security, 185-6]
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether - to reject it as so ideologically loaded in favour of the state that any real political thought other than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up. That is clearly something that can not be achieved within the limits of bourgeois thought and thus could never even begin to be imagined by the security intellectual. It is also something that the constant iteration of the refrain 'this is an insecure world' and reiteration of one fear, anxiety and insecurity after another will also make it hard to do. But it is something that the critique of security suggests we may have to consider if we want a political way out of the impasse of security. This impasse exists because security has now become so all-encompassing that it marginalises all else, most notably the constructive conflicts, debates and discussions that animate political life. The constant prioritising of a mythical security as a political end - as the political end constitutes a rejection of politics in any meaningful sense of the term. That is, as a mode of action in which differences can be articulated, in which the conflicts and struggles that arise from such differences can be fought for and negotiated, in which people might come to believe that another world is possible - that they might transform the world and in turn be transformed. Security politics simply removes this; worse, it remoeves it while purportedly addressing it. In so doing it suppresses all issues of power and turns political questions into debates about the most efficient way to achieve 'security', despite the fact that we are never quite told - never could be told - what might count as having achieved it. Security politics is, in this sense, an anti-politics,"' dominating political discourse in much the same manner as the security state tries to dominate human beings, reinforcing security fetishism and the monopolistic character of security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security politics, not add yet more 'sectors' to it in a way that simply expands the scope of the state and legitimises state intervention in yet more and more areas of our lives. Simon Dalby reports a personal communication with Michael Williams, co-editor of the important text Critical Security Studies, in which the latter asks: if you take away security, what do you put in the hole that's left behind? But I'm inclined to agree with Dalby: maybe there is no hole."' The mistake has been to think that there is a hole and that this hole needs to be filled with a new vision or revision of security in which it is re-mapped or civilised or gendered or humanised or expanded or whatever. All of these ultimately remain within the statist political imaginary, and consequently end up reaffirming the state as the terrain of modern politics, the grounds of security. The real task is not to fill the supposed hole with yet another vision of security, but to fight for an alternative political language which takes us beyond the narrow horizon of bourgeois security and which therefore does not constantly throw us into the arms of the state. That's the point of critical politics: to develop a new political language more adequate to the kind of society we want. Thus while much of what I have said here has been of a negative order, part of the tradition of critical theory is that the negative may be as significant as the positive in setting thought on new paths. For if security really is the supreme concept of bourgeois society and the fundamental thematic of liberalism, then to keep harping on about insecurity and to keep demanding 'more security' (while meekly hoping that this increased security doesn't damage our liberty) is to blind ourselves to the possibility of building real alternatives to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. To situate ourselves against security politics would allow us to circumvent the debilitating effect achieved through the constant securitising of social and political issues, debilitating in the sense that 'security' helps consolidate the power of the existing forms of social domination and justifies the short-circuiting of even the most democratic forms. It would also allow us to forge another kind of politics centred on a different conception of the good. We need a new way of thinking and talking about social being and politics that moves us beyond security. This would perhaps be emancipatory in the true sense of the word. What this might mean, precisely, must be open to debate. But it certainly requires recognising that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognising that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learning to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and 'insecurities' that come with being human; it requires accepting that 'securitizing' an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'

==Topicality== 

===Not Military=== 

**Transportation infrastructure is distinct from water, energy, and military infrastructure-legislation proves**
**Katz ‘6**
(Bruce Katz, Vice President and Director, Metropolitan Policy Program, Brookings, 2/22/09, Strengthening Our Infrastructure for a Sustainable Future, http://www.brookings.edu/research/speeches/2009/02/22-infrastructure-katz)
First, as we all know, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that the President signed into law last Tuesday provides a lot of money for infrastructure. It may not be as much as some governors had hoped for and most of the money does go to tax relief, but according to our analysis–which uses the broadest possible definition–we find that there is $152 billion going to infrastructure from the recovery package. Most of the money ($54 billion) is going to transportation infrastructure – roads, rails, and transit, mostly. There are also big chunks for water/sewer and the energy grid. The "other construction" category includes housing, military, health facilities and others.

===Not Security=== 

**“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support**
**Musick ‘10**
(Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)
Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources: transportation and water. Those types of infrastructure share the economic characteristics of being relatively capital intensive and producing services under public management that facilitate private economic activity. They are typically the types examined by studies that attempt to calculate the payoff, in terms of benefits to the U.S. economy) of the public sector's funding of infrastructure. For the purposes of CBO's analysis, "transportation infrastructure" includes the systems and facilities that support the following types of activities: ■ Vehicular transportation: highways, roads, bridges, and tunnels; ■ Mass transit subways, buses, and commuter rail; ■ Rail transport primarily the intercity service provided by Amtrak;* ■ Civil aviation: airport terminals, runways, and taxi-ways, and facilities and navigational equipment for air traffic control: and ■ Water transportation: waterways, ports, vessel*, and navigational systems. The category "water infrastructure" includes facilities that provide the following: ■ Water resources: containment systems, such as dams, levees, reservoirs, and watersheds; and sources of fresh water such as lakes and rivers; and ■ Water utilities: supply systems for distributing potable water, and wastewater and sewage treatment systems and plants. Consistent with CBO'% previous reports on public spending for transportation and water infrastructure, this update excludes spending that is associated with such infrastructure but does not contribute directly to the provision of infrastructure facilities or certain strictly defined infrastructure services. Examples of excluded spending are federal outlays for homeland security (which are especially pertinent to aviation), law enforcement and military functions (such as those carried out by the Coast Guard), and cleanup operations (such as those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]