[[toc]]
=Contact Info=
Aff: n.karusala@gmail.com
Neg: k.thakore95@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==Icebreakers==
===Samford===
**Plan**
 The United States federal government should develop and deploy single purpose polar class icebreakers. The United States federal government should maintain and deploy current icebreakers.

**Advantage 1 is the North**
**We have a couple icebreakers but it’s not enough – we need additional funding.**
PopMechanics 12-7 [Popular Mechanics, By Kalee Thompson; “Where Are America's Badly Needed Icebreakers?”; 12/7/2012; http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/navy-ships/where-are-americas-badly-needed-icebreakers-14829862?click=pm_latest; Boyce]
When the heavy-duty icebreaker Polar Star pulls away from the Coast Guard pier 
AND
, a polar research vessel, is due to enter service in 2014. 
**2 Internal links
First is Power Projection

Risk of conflict is high.**
Tassinari 9/7 Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/
The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players 
AND
not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.

**The plan’s reverses this trend – a clear signal is key to avert Arctic war.**
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by 
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

**Russia won’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves**
Dawkins 11 (Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)//moxley
Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorial gain from the Arctic, 
AND
Russian export market and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.

**Those go nuclear**
Wallace, 10 (Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. 
AND
geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.” 

**Best scholarship proves our impact**
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)
It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one 
AND
the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.

**Second, Russian dominance will allow them to prevent shipping and American involvement in Arctic trade**
Burke et al. 8 (Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley
There is one geographic area in particular where climate change could generate very traditional security 
AND
take advantage of the Northwest Passage as a faster trans-oceanic route.

**Naval presence is the only way to ensure access to Arctic trade—key to American economic competiveness and economic leadership**
Burke et al. 8 (Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley
Disruptions to global shipping and commercial ports resulting from climate change will present challenges to 
AND
and defending U.S. economic and other interests in the Arctic.

**Lack of engagement in trade and trade credibility causes trade blocs and global conflict** 
Bergsten 97 – Peterson Institute for International Economics (Fred C., “Global Trade and American Politics”, September 27, 1997, The Economist, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291) 
Second, the trade policy credibility of the United States will totally evaporate if it 
AND
his predecessors, without jolting confidence in its staying power in other respects.

**Advantage 2 is the South**
**The Antarctic Treaty is being undermined now.**
VOXY 9-19-12 (Voxy News, “Antarctica may come under threat – UC” expert, The expert is Brian Storev of the University of Canterbury, September 19th, 2012, http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/antarctica-may-come-under-threat-uc-expert/5/135147)//moxley
The near pristine environment of Antarctica will in time come under a threat in future 
AND
being extracted from Antarctica within the next 36 years? Dr Storey said.

**The plan is key – sustainable Antarctic presence prevents collapse of stability**
National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
Under the treaty, the United States and other signatories are guaranteed freedom of scientific 
AND
scientists at South Pole Station preserves U.S. interests and influence.

**First, collapse of the Antarctic treaty leads to armed conflict** 
Roura 11 (Ricardo, environmental geologist, “Antarctica’s Wilderness Values”, 2011, http://www.oneworldmagazine.org/focus/southpole/contmain.htm)//moxley
As we continue to move towards more "advanced" forms of exploitation of the 
AND
destroyed. Maybe the future of Antarctica will rely on this duel protection.

**Most likely scenario – modeled worldwide**
Yin 6-19-12 (Wenquin Yin, Chinese Journal of International Law, Moratorium in International Law, June 29th, 2012, http://chinesejil.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/04/18/chinesejil.jms032.full)
The intent and purpose of the moratorium on performance or furtherance of conflicting claims are 
AND
system collapses, the issue of territorial claim disputes will definitely arise again.

**Second, commitment to the treaty solves global science diplomacy**
Collins 11 (Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11,
http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php) 
The success of world co-operation based on science and practiced since the Cold 
AND
and people to work together in decision-making on shared global interests."

**Solves a laundry list of impacts.**
Federoff 8  (Nina, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID “Testimony Before The House Science Subcommittee On Research And Science Education,” pg online @ http://gop.science.house.gov/Media/Hearings/research08/April2/fedoroff.pdf //)
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank 
AND
a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.

**Solvency**
**The Coast Guard would coordinate with many federal agencies to achieve long-term solvency**
GAO  An analysis of the reports assembled by various government offices 12/01/11 [Government Accountability Office]  DHS-OIG “Report on the Coast Guard's Polar Icebreakers” 
http://www.gao.gov/htext/d12254t.html
The Coast Guard also coordinates with federal agencies, such as the NSF, National 
AND
Security Presidential Directive 66/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25.[Footnote 37] 

**Federal government ownership key** 
NRC 07 (Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD” 2007 http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=1 (Pitman)
Options to address U.S. Coast Guard mission areas are limited. The 
AND
the perspective of both reliability and incorporating the newest and best available technology.

**The refusal to engage in traditional politics is an abdication of social responsibility that makes all social crises inevitable**
Boggs, 1997 (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf) 
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series 
AND
of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75



=Negative= 
==Neg Strats==
===Samford===
**Round 4 vs Hooch DC**
1AC: Port Security (Coast Guard, Terror)
1NC: T- primary purpose (transport people and goods), T-military, Debt Celing PTX, T/Daoism K, Adv CP, Case
Block: T-primary purpose, CP, DA, case
2NR: DA case

**Round 5 vs Westminster GY**
1AC: Port Dredging (Trade and Navy)
1NC: T-primary purpose is people transport, T-in/throught, Debt Ceiling PTX, States CP, Security K, Case
Block: CP, DA, Case
2NR: Politics, Case

===Milton===
**Round 2 vs Roswell RU**
1AC: Port Dredging (Trade and Navy)
1NC: T-primary purpose is people/goods transport, T-in/throught, Hagel PTX, States CP, Cap K, Case
Block: T- Primary Purpose, CP, Politics, case
2NR: Politics, Case

**Round 4 vs Hooch MS**
1AC: Port Security (Terror and Coast Guard)
1NC: T- primary purpose is people/goods transport, T-military aint T, Cap K, Hagel PTX, States CP, case
Block: K, Politics, Case
2NR: Politics, Case

**Round 5 vs Hooch IW**
1AC: Port Security (Terror and Coast Guard)
1NC: Same as round 4 except the K was Daoism not Cap
Block: CP, Politics, Case
2NR: Politics, Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]