[[toc]]
= = 
This wiki is weird: akhilg24@gmail.com for more coherent disclosure
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===1AC-- Innocence=== 

V:J

5th amendment rights- topic lit- comparing evidence key to education

T bad- infinite violations

Accused- no actual act of terrorism

Aff= RVI
a) time and strat skew- 1AR 4 minutes
b) discourages bad theory- can lost
c) collapse = rvi <span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span> only way to win

Protecting Innocents

1) not giving due when punishing innocents

2) removes moral backing from punishment

3) kills deterrence effect
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">John Danaher [“The Problem of Punishing the Innocent”, Wednesday, November 23, 2011] Akhil </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Granting that assumption…</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> kinds of act.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">4) legitimizes oppression</span><span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> can punish without reason </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">5 Its universizable, all moral claims have to be capable of being universizable</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer, Princeton University [“The Groundwork of Utilitarian Morals: Reconsidering Hare’s Argument for Utilitarianism” New York University Department of Philosophy, November 7, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Moral judgments, in…</span><span style="font-family: Times;">by the action. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Burden: prove accused terrorist is more likely innocent that guilty, neg has converse burden </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Burden is means based</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Shuoldn’t violate innocents- protect the most without violating others </span>


Cont 1:

<span style="font-family: Times;">Empirically when we arrest those that we suspect of terrorism we arrest more people that are innocent than guilty. **Cole 1:** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Cole, Professor, Georgetown University Law Center [Out of the Shadows: Preventive Detention, Suspected Terrorists, and War. California Law Review, Inc. 2009]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a terrorist offense.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sub PointB:</span>Terrorism is unlikely – you are more likely to be struck by lightning. Muller:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mueller,‘5 </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Prof, OSU, “Terrorism and the Dynamics of Threat Exaggeration” Presentation @ 05 Annual Mtg of the American PoliSci Assoc. Washington DC, Sept 1-4, August, p 26]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"The chances of …in the United States.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Contention Two: </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Indefinite detentions are more likely to punish innocents- there’s no effective evaluator of quilt, evidence, and use standards less than probable cause. NYBA: </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts. THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR. 2004.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Indefinite detentions constitute …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">enemy combatant classification.</span>

I solve comparatively better than the neg
==Negative== 
===1NC--UTIL FW=== 

The value is morality

The resolution is a question of policy implementation of behalf of the United States government so the actor is the state. Consequentialism is the only framework that can effectively determine how a state ought to act. Thus the standard is consequentialism
Since “ought,” indicates incentive or obligation toward action, we can never pose that a state ought to act in ways that would make it impossible for them to act. Deontology, then, cannot determine what a state ought to do:
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Woller 1997</span> (Gary, Economics Professor at BYU, “Policy Currents,” June, http://apsapolicysection.org/vol7_2/72.pdf ) Showers
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, virtually… policy in a democracy.</span>
Attempting to operate under moral side constraints leads to further violation of deontological side constraints. As such, deontological side constraints offer not effective guidance for how the US ought to act.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nielsen 93</span> – Professor of Philosophy, University of Calgary (Kai, “Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics”, ed. Joram Graf Haber Pg 171-72)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anticonsequentialists often point…out to be unnecessary.</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No act omission distinction for states</span>

Third: Consequentialism is the only non-arbitrary ethical system because all others wrongly prioritize one’s good over the good of others. Ethical systems that admit arbitrariness ought to be rejected, because they cannot be coherent guides for action.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lillehammer 11.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Hallvard, Faculty of Philosophy Cambridge University, “Consequentialism and global ethics.” Forthcoming in M. Boylan, Ed., Global Morality and Justice: A Reader, Westview Press, Online, http://www.phil.cam.ac.uk/teaching_staff/lillehammer/Consequentialism_and_Global_Ethics-1-2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contemporary discussions of consequentialism…with those principles.</span>

Even if other judicial standards such as constitutionality or lawfulness could govern the actions of states, the ambiguous nature of terrorism requires that we resort to a consequentialist paradigm in determining how we ought to act:
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">ALEC WALEN, Associate Professor of Law, Rutgers School of Law, Camden; Associate Professor of Philosophy, Rutgers University, New Brunswick. [A UNIFIED THEORY OF DETENTION, WITH APPLICATION TO PREVENTIVE DETENTION FOR SUSPECTED TERRORISTS. MARYLAND LAW REVIEW, VOLUME 70, NUMBER 4, 2011]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nearly ten years …convicted of a crime.</span>

===1NC--Targeted Killing D/A=== 

**Targeted Killing and an extension of due process are mutually exclusive**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">L.A. Times[When the government kills, July 29, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/29/opinion/la-ed-drone-killings-lawsuit-20120729] Akhil</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether or not it…executed without a trial.</span>


**Targeted killing demoralizes terrorists groups by removing charismatic leaders, and removes “expert terrorists” from the chain of command, decreasing the overall strength of terrorist groups**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel L. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Byman</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor at Georgetown University and Research Director of the Saban Center at Brookings Institution, "The Targeted Killings Debate," Council on Foreign Relations home page, http://www.cfr.org/international-peace-and-security/targeted-killings-debate/p25230, June 8, 20</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Killing terrorist leaders… people took over.</span>

**(_)Targeted killing disrupts future terrorist acts by removing groups’ sense of safety and predictability**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel L. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Byman,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> Professor at Georgetown University and Research Director of the Saban Center at Brookings Institution, "The Targeted Killings Debate," Council on Foreign Relations home page, http://www.cfr.org/international-peace-and-security/targeted-killings-debate/p25230, June 8, 20</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">An often-neglected…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> U.S. national policy.</span>
**(_)Targeted killing prevents terrorism**
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Fisher, 2007</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> ( Jason,Judicial Clerk to the Honorable James O. Browning, United States District Court for the District of New Mexico; J.D./M.A. University of California, Berkeley, 2006. “45 Colum. J. Transnat'l L. 711.” Columbia Journal of Transnational Law. (2007) p.735.</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Targeted killing may …public relations arena.</span>
**(_)The nature of states harboring terrorists necessitates targeted killing, states prevents other action**
Gal <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Luft</span> is executive director of the Washington, DC based Institute for the Analysis of Global Security (IAGS). He specializes in strategy, geopolitics, terrorism, Middle East and energy security He is a former lieutenant colonel in the Israel Defense Forces, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3</span> [“The Logic of Israel's Targeted Killing”, Middle East Quarterly Winter 2003, pp. 3-13, http://www.meforum.org/515/the-logic-of-israels-targeted-killing]//sbhags//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Israel has traditionally…</span>and the masterminds.//
**//(_)Targeted killing to stop terrorism causes the least harm to innocents –alternatives are worse//**
//Gal <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Luft</span> is executive director of the Washington, DC based Institute for the Analysis of Global Security (IAGS). He specializes in strategy, geopolitics, terrorism, Middle East and energy security He is a former lieutenant colonel in the Israel Defense Forces, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3</span> [“The Logic of Israel's Targeted Killing”, Middle East Quarterly Winter 2003, pp. 3-13, http://www.meforum.org/515/the-logic-of-israels-targeted-killing]//sbhags
Despite the shortcomings of the current policy, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there is</span> nearly …to innocent civilians<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**(_)Osama Bin Laden has recognized the effect targeted killing had on his organization**
Peter <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bergen,</span> CNN National Security Analyst, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and </span>Megan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Braun,</span> Special to CNN, [Drone is Obama's weapon of choice, 10:37 AM EDT, Wed September 19, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/05/opinion/bergen-obama-drone/index.html] Akhil
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The New America…kingdom of Qatar.</span>

**(_)Terrorism leads to extinction**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Speice</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> JD Candidate </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">‘6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Speice 06 – 06 JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary [Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Accordingly, there is …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> of nuclear weapons. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">53</span>

**(_)Targeted Killing is key to upholding U.S. Hegemony**
JONATHON <span style="font-size: 13pt;">SHAFI </span>[The drone wars and US strategy, THURSDAY, 26 JULY 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12 </span>21:44, http://www.counterfire.org/index.php/articles/analysis/15928-the-drone-wars-and-us-strategy] Akhil
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The US is …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dangerous road to travel.</span>
**(_)Key to preventing a terrorist WMD attack**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitt, director at AEI, 2006</span> Gary Schmitt, Resident scholar and director of the Program on Advanced Strategic Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, February 2006, “Is there any alternative to U.S. primacy?” The Weekly Standard
The core argument…<span style="font-size: 12pt;">absence of such power."</span>
**(_)Solves Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad</span>, Rand Corporation <span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span> (Zalmay Khalilzad, Spring 1995. RAND Corporation. “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly 18.2, Lexis.)
Under the third… balance of power system.

===1NC-- Elections D/A=== 

**A:Obama small win now – Tied on key issues, Polls prove**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Matthew John </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dowd</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is an American political consultant chief strategist for the Bush-Cheney '04 campaign ABC's political contributor</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">., 9/19</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">2012 In Presidential Decathlon, Obama is Winning,http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/09/dowd-in-presidential-decathlon-obama-is-winning/</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus far, I …politics, and in life.</span>

**Obama narrow win now- Analysis proves**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Larry Joseph </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sabato</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is an American political scientist and political analyst, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">et al9/19/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">12 Sabato foresees narrow win for Obama</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.virginiabusiness.com/index.php/news/article/sabato-foresees-narrow-win-for-obama/321210/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may …to the Senate.</span>

**B:People don’t want suspected terrorists to get due process**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">Peyton</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Knight </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 9pt;">[“Only 20% of Americans Strongly Support Obama Terror Trials.” PRWeb. Polls by Zogby International/O’Leary Press. November 25, 2009 </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.prweb.com/releases/American_Voters/9-11_Trials/prweb3255354.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 9pt;"> ]</span>
Voters Oppose Granting <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">a Federal Court </span>

**C:Romney’s plan causes economic collapse --- kills the housing market and consumer spending**
**Waldron**, 1/12/**2012** (Travis, Economists: Romney’s Economic Plan Fails to Deal With ‘Main Drags’ On U.S. Economy, Think Progress, p. http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/01/12/403210/economists-romneys-draconian/)
Former Massachusetts Gov…<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Econ 101 class</span>.

**D:Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
Cesare <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Merlini</span>, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly … as unbridled nationalism.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===1AC-- Arbitrariness=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">I value morality. Aff defends a moral obligation to guarantee health care so the neg must defend a moral prohibition, which creates reciprocal burdens by giving us the same ground to affirm or negate- key to fairness by giving us equal access to the ballot and the role of the ballot is to vote for the better debater, not the better cheater. </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morality requires reason to guide action- the way we validate truth statements is through reason. Korsgaard:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Korsgaard [ “The Activity of Reason”, Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 2008)</span>
In the case of theoretical reasons...**__us to the truth.__**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Arguments for or against health care have to be universizable or else individuals would have to reason to accept them.Singer:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer, Princeton University [“The Groundwork of Utilitarian Morals: Reconsidering Hare’s Argument for Utilitarianism” New York University Department of Philosophy, November 7, 2009]</span>
Moral judgments<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in other words...</span><span style="font-family: Tahoma;"> affected by the action.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Reason cannot arbitrary (2 warrants), so the standard is preventing an arbitrary distribution of rights </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">1] If morality is a guide to action it cannot be arbitrary or else it would not be a coherent guide for action </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">2] Moral principles presuppose everyone is a equal-- means we can't be arbitrary </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The thesis of the AC is that there is no morally relevant distinction between the rich and the poor that would justify giving them different access to health... </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">My advocacy is that we ought give all citizens the ability to access health care and the negative burden is to prove a morally relevant distinction between the rich and the poor that would justify giving them different rights to health. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CONTENTION ONE: </span>

**A] In the status quo, access to health care is restricted by access to financial resources and exasperated by racial inequity.**
Office Of The<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> U</span>nited<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> N</span>ations <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hi</span>gh<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> C</span>ommissioner For Human Rights<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012, [“Factsheet 31” http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/Factsheet31.pdf]JD</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Discrimination means any ...</span> **general population.**

**B] These disparities have been proven through consistent and credible empirics**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alicia Ely</span> <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yamin 1</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harvard School of Public Health and is a human rights attorney who at the time of writing was working with nongovernmental organizations in Latin America. [ “The Right to Health Under International Law and Its Relevance to the United States” Am J Public Health.</span>2005 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">July; 95(7): 1156–1161.] Akhil</span>
Major reviews of t...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> health care system.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">58</span>

**C] This system has led to thousands of unjust deaths- these people dies because they couldn’t afford health**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cecere</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“New study finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of health coverage¶ Uninsured, working-age Americans have 40 percent higher death risk than privately insured counterparts”, Cambridge Health Alliance¶ Thursday, September 17, 2009. Harvard Science; The study was supported by a National Service Research Award.] Akhil</span>
Nearly 45,000 annual ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who can get it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CONTENTION TWO: </span>


**A] Universal health care provides better coverage and less health care abuse.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David</span> **Cutler**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, professor of applied economics at Harvard University, Judy Feder, Professor of public policy at Georgetown University,[“Health Care Reform Is Good For The Economy”, http://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/health-care-reform-good-economy-article-1.173090”JD</span>
Alongside job-based coverage...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> distorting its provisions.</span>

**B] Universal health care solves for wealth disparity.**
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No author given, </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">N</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ew </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">E</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ngland </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">J</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ournal of </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">M</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">edicine 320:102-108 (January 12), 1989[“</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A National Health Program for the United States: A Physicians' Proposal” http://www.pnhp.org/publications/a_</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">national</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">_health_program_for_the_united_states.php?page=all]JD</span>
Universal coverage would...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with such programs.</span>

**C] Universal health care increases access to health care**
Brian D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smedley</span> [Ph.D. Health Policy Institute Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, March 24, 2009 Addressing Racial and Ethnic Health Care Disparities] Akhil
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Strive for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Universal Insurance...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">sharing on utilization.</span>

**D] Universal health care empirically effective- all citizens in France have access to health care**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victor G. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rodwin,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with the Wagner School, New York University, New York, NY, and the World Cities Project, New York, a joint venture of NYU Wagner and the International Longevity Center-USA. [“The Health Care System Under French National Health Insurance: Lessons for Health Reform in the United States”, Am J Public Health. 2003 January; 93(1): 31–37.] Akhil </span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Although the French...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">experience with NHI.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; vertical-align: baseline;">1AC-- Util </span>=== 

V:M
C:Trutil

Advantage: Health

cards about why people die without UHC

Advantage: I-law

UHC consistent with i-law, following i-law good

Advantage: Economy

UHC good for small business-- key to economy-- extinction

Solvency: Either just generic single player solves cards or implement the French System


==Negative== 
===1NC-- Biotech=== 

**A] Government deficit spending trades off with the private sector.**
**Holmes** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1-25-10(Kim R. Holmes, Ph.D., “As Economic Freedom Declines, so Does Prosperity” The Heritage Foundation http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed012510j.cfm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The displacement cost.... less economic output.</span>

**B] Government interventionism within the private sector crushes the biotech industry.**
**NCPA,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Center for Policy Analysis, 2004 (“Regulation promotes biotech monopolies, says experts,” references “Who Created This Monster?,” Henry I. Miller, June 10, http://www.ncpa.org/sub/dpd/index.php?Article_ID=151, RG)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many of </span>biotech's travails...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">gene-spliced wheat.</span>

**C] Biotech solves bioterror**
**Maurer** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">7 Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. Director of the Goldman School Project at the University of California, Berkeley on Information Technology and Homeland Security Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The new realities of terrorism... Time is running out.</span>

**D] The impact to bioterrorism is extinction**
**Steinbruner** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">98 (John D. Steinbruner, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/1998, pp. 85-96, ASP.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although human pathogens...the other way. </span>

===1NC-- Spending=== 

**A] Financial markets are barely staying afloat- we have to cut spending NOW IS KEY**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bloomberg, 6/5</span> SFGAte, U.S. Risks Fiscal Crisis Without Budget Changes, CBO Says Brian Faler, ©2012 Bloomberg News Tuesday, June 5, 2012, http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2012/06/05/bloomberg_articlesM55E8G0D9L3501-M55RM.DTL
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">For now, the...</span> in the future."

**B] Universal health care would cost 1.5 trillion dollars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [Universal Health Care May Cost $1.5 Trillion, Published March 18, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Your lungs may work...over time."</span>

**C] Spending kills the economy in this climate**
**Murphy** **8/7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduateofVirginiaCommonwealthUniversitywithadegreeinpoliticalscience(Conor,2011,"Darkeconomictimesahead,"http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/political-pro-con/2011/aug/7/debt-federal-reserve-bernake-obama/,RG)</span>
While it is obvious...see the cliff at

**<span style="background-color: white;">D] Economic crisis causes war –statistics support transition wars, miscalc, resource conflicts, internal conflict, and terrorism – other authors don’t base their analysis on global studies</span>**
Jedediah <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal</span>, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="background-color: white;">Less intuitive is...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ancillary to those views</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>

===1NC-- Biopower K=== 

**Establishing health as a right is not a politically neutral act – Public health is increasingly justified by the war on terror mentality**
Bradley <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis</span>, Associate Professor at NYU, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">7</span>, The New Global Health Movement: Rx for the World?//dk
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the area of ...</span> rest of the world.

**Extension of state control over life is a dangerous practice of governmentality—power is politicized and and disseminated among the government**
Mike <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Raco and</span> Rob <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Imrie, 2k</span> (Professor of Geography at the Universty of Reading, Professor of Geography at Royal Halloway, “Univeristy of London ... at the outset'' (page 92).

**Extension of healthcare gives the state power over life – risks the annihilation of entire populations with mass genocides and nuclear weapons**
Mitchell <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1</span> (Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, “Demonic Societies: Liberalism, Biopolitics, and Sovereignty”, Ethnographic Explorations of the Postcolonial State, p. 55-58)
Consider again the ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the modern state</span> (232).

**Our alternative is to assume the role of specific intellectuals within the round by rejecting the notion of disciplinary power rooted in the affirmative’s project. Only by constant problematization of the way the affirmative harnesses governmentality can we open up a new space of contestation.**
David <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen</span>, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">94</span> (Professor of Social and Political Philosophy at University of Southampton, Morality and Modernity, p. 208-210)
The ‘universal’ intellectual,... of who we are.

===1NC-- Antibiotics=== 

**Antibiotic use in the United States low and shows signs of decreasing**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roos</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Good news, bad news on US antibiotic use and resistance, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nov 13, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (CIDRAP News), www.cidrap.umn.edu/cidrap/content/other/resistance/news/nov1312antibiotics.html] Akhil</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Research groupsoffered...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> honor 12 principles.</span>

**In systems of universal health care, doctors have financial incentive to increase antibiotic prescriptions**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">W</span>orld <span style="font-size: 13pt;">H</span>ealth <span style="font-size: 13pt;">O</span>rganization [Are antibiotics still “automatic” in France?, Volume 89, Number 1, January 2011] Akhil
So what is going...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">one,” </span>says Schlemmer.

**Empirically systems of Universal Health Care over use antibiotics- proven in France**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">W</span>orld <span style="font-size: 13pt;">H</span>ealth <span style="font-size: 13pt;">O</span>rganization [Are antibiotics still “automatic” in France?, Volume 89, Number 1, January 2011] Akhil
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The first part ... around the issue.</span>

**Systems of universal health care have worse antibiotic resistance**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bennett et al</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Che-Lun Hung, Tsai-Ling Lauderdale, Daniel Bennett: Harris School of Public Policy Studies, University of Chicago, dmbennett@uchicago.edu;¶ Che-Lun Hung: National Tsing Hua University, allen@sslab.cs.nthu.edu.tw; Tsai-Ling Lauderdale: National¶ Health Research Institutes of Taiwan, lauderdale@nhri.org.tw. We thank Nathaniel Baum-Snow, Kerwin¶ Charles, Kenneth Chay, Likwang Chen, Nelly Chen, Shou-Hsia Cheng, Chun-Fang Chiang, Andrew Foster,¶ Susan Foster, Douglas Gollin, Je rey Grogger, Vernon Henderson, Monto Ho, Jill Huang, Peter Iliev, Calvin¶ Kunin, Shuen-Zen Liu, Rachel Lu, Bruce Meyer, Kaivan Munshi, Ying Pan, Dimitra Politi, James Romeis,¶ Mao-Ting Sheen, Svetla Vitanova, Nicholas Wilson and seminar participants at the University of Chicago¶ and National Taiwan University for many helpful suggestions. [Health Care Competition and Antibiotic Use in Taiwan, December 21, 2011] Akhil</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1995, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Taiwan...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(McDonald et al. 2004).</span>

**This worsens health-- links back to the AC standard**

**1] Increases cancer**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAWRENCE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">WILSON,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MD, medical degree, and works as a nutrition consultant only. For over 30 years, he has specialized in nutritional balancing science, a particular method of improving health that he originally learned from Dr. Paul C. Eck, a brilliant biochemist and founder of Analytical Research Laboratories. [“BEYOND ANTIBIOTICS”, April </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Center For Development] Akhil </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A </span>2008 <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">study of 3,000,000 </span>people...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> published in a very reputable journal</span> (<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Int J Cancer</span> 08;123:2152-2155).

**2] Creates drug resistance**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAWRENCE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">WILSON,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MD, medical degree, and works as a nutrition consultant only. For over 30 years, he has specialized in nutritional balancing science, a particular method of improving health that he originally learned from Dr. Paul C. Eck, a brilliant biochemist and founder of Analytical Research Laboratories. [“BEYOND ANTIBIOTICS”, April </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Center For Development] Akhil </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An article in Science Magazine... drug-resistant super-bacteria.</span>

**3] Worsens Immune deficiency**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAWRENCE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">WILSON,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MD, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">medical</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> degree, and works as a nutrition consultant only. For over 30 years, he has specialized in nutritional balancing science, a particular method of improving health that he originally learned from Dr. Paul C. Eck, a brilliant biochemist and founder of Analytical Research Laboratories. [“BEYOND ANTIBIOTICS”, April </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Center For Development] Akhil </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This may sound... also be a cause. </span>


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===1AC-- Crime=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">I affirm</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">V: M</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">S: Util</span>**

**Lipsey defines rehabilitation**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey1 and Francis T. Cullen2 //1 Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email:// </span>[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|//mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu//]]//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> 2 Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: </span>//[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|//cullenft@email.uc.edu//]]//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> Annual Review of Law and Social Science</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">, volume 3, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Rehabilitation</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;">treatment </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">is… many offenders</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">(e.g., a focus on dominance in interpersonal relationships, feelings of entitlement, self-justification, displacing blame, and unrealistic expectations about the consequences of antisocial behavior; Walters 1990)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Crime causes the most direct harm to society</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LISE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">MCKEAN</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PH.D, Deputy Director of CIR. Dr. McKean is the director of the Income Support Access Project, the Alternatives to Incarceration Project, and the First Accounts Study. She received her Ph.D. in Social Anthropology from the University of Sydney, M.A. from the University of Hawai'i, and B.A. from the University of Chicago. Her book, Divine Enterprise: Gurus and the Hindu Nationalist Movement is based on her research in India and published by the University of Chicago Press [“CURRENT STRATEGIES FOR REDUCING RECIDIVISM”, CENTER FOR IMPACT RESEARCH, AUGUST 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] //AG//</span>
The enormous and expanding cost in …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of low</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Arabic';">‐</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">income</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> households.</span>
**Education key to reducing recidivism- limited slots for participation in the squo**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LISE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">MCKEAN</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PH.D, Deputy Director of CIR. Dr. McKean is the director of the Income Support Access Project, the Alternatives to Incarceration Project, and the First Accounts Study. She received her Ph.D. in Social Anthropology from the University of Sydney, M.A. from the University of Hawai'i, and B.A. from the University of Chicago. Her book, Divine Enterprise: Gurus and the Hindu Nationalist Movement is based on her research in India and published by the University of Chicago Press [“CURRENT STRATEGIES FOR REDUCING RECIDIVISM”, CENTER FOR IMPACT RESEARCH, AUGUST 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] AG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Low </span>education<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">al attainment …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and about 27 percent received vocational training</span>
**Prison without employment increases recidivism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritikin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis] //AG//</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Difficulties in obtaining legitimate … committed against person or property.</span>
**Employment KEY to the prevention of further crime**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LISE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">MCKEAN</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PH.D, Deputy Director of CIR. Dr. McKean is the director of the Income Support Access Project, the Alternatives to Incarceration Project, and the First Accounts Study. She received her Ph.D. in Social Anthropology from the University of Sydney, M.A. from the University of Hawai'i, and B.A. from the University of Chicago. Her book, Divine Enterprise: Gurus and the Hindu Nationalist Movement is based on her research in India and published by the University of Chicago Press [“CURRENT STRATEGIES FOR REDUCING RECIDIVISM”, CENTER FOR IMPACT RESEARCH, AUGUST 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] AG</span>
Released prisoners <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to reduce recidivism.</span>
**The most comprehensive studies prove rehabilitation is effective Lipsey and Cullen write,**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7.5pt;">1 </span><span style="font-family: Arial;">and Francis T. Cullen</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7.5pt;">2 //1// </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial;">Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: </span>//[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|//mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu//]]//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7.5pt;">2 </span>////<span style="font-family: Arial;">Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: </span>//[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|//cullenft@email.uc.edu//]]//<span style="font-family: Arial;">Annual Review of Law and Social Science</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial;">, volume 3, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">This review has … meta-analysis of sanctions.</span>
**Prison increases crime**
**1. violence in prisons increases crime**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritikin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis] //AG//</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even the United States …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and socially maladjusted when they are released.</span>
**2. Overcrowding Increases crime**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritikin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis] AG</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Prison overcrowding … increase in-prison violence.</span>
**3. Lack of political rights increase recidivism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritikin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis] //AG//</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In most states, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… toward deviancy and crime.</span>
**4. Solitary Confinement increases recidivism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritikin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis] AG</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">High-risk … in the first place.</span>
===1AC-- Alcohol (Plan Text+ Solvency)=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alcohol Plan: I advocate rehabilitating alcohol offenders in the criminal justice system through a combination of naltrexone and CBI drug treatment plus medical management.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">All the solvency is based on this study</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SOLVENCY ADVOCATE CITE:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">The combine study,</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> Center for Drug and Alcohol Programs, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston (Drs Anton and Randall); Substance Abuse Treatment Unit, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn (Dr O’Malley); Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass (Dr Ciraulo); University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (Drs Cisler and Zweben); Collaborative Studies Coordinating Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (Drs Couper and Hosking); Addictions Treatment Center, University of Washington, Seattle (Dr Donovan); Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston (Dr Gastfriend); University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio (Dr Johnson); Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System/Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass (Dr LoCastro); Roger Williams Medical Center, Brown University, Providence, RI (Drs Longabaugh and Swift); University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, Fla (Drs Mason and Williams); National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Bethesda, Md (Dr Mattson); Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse and Addiction, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque (Dr Miller); Treatment and Research Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (Dr Pettinati); and Harvard University/McLean Hospital, Belmont, Mass (Dr Weiss). Dr Gastfriend is now affiliated with Alkermes Inc, Cambridge, Mass; Dr Johnson is now with University of Virginia Health Systems, Charlottsville; Dr Mason is now with The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, Calif; and Dr Zweben is now with Columbia University School of Social Work, New York, NY. [“Combined Pharmacotherapies and Behavioral Interventions for Alcohol Dependence¶ The COMBINE Study: A Randomized Controlled Trial”. May 3, 2006, supported by National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism] //AG//</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Davin </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Douma</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, worked with Professor Jaime L. Burns, PhD, as part of a criminal justice curriculum [“Prison Reform Model Proposal by Davin Douma”, April 12, 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] //AG</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(other author)</span>


===1AC-- Drugs Plan=== 

I advocate valuing rehabilitation above retribution for drug offenders in the Criminal Justice System.

===1AC-- Virtual Incarceration (TOC)=== 
Neg must defend the status quo; AC offense assumes the status quo, allowing the neg to choose an alternative skews aff ground because I lose 6 minutes of offense, which harms fairness because they have twice as much rebuttal time as me; the 1AC is key to rectify this bias. Fairness is important because the ballot asks who did the better debating, which is impossible to evaluate is one debater has a structural advantage. And, Neg has to prove that retribution ought be valued above rehabilitation to maintain reciprocity, which is key to fairness for equal access. Presume aff, they have longer speeches to develop arguments better than the aff.

PART ONE IS FRAMEWORK

I value morality. Because we are asked what ought be valued in context of the CJS, the actor is the state. Unlike individuals, states have unique a unique obligation to protect the rights of their citizens.
LILIYA ABRAMCHAYEV,[A SOCIAL CONTRACT ARGUMENT FOR ¶ THE STATE’S DUTY TO PROTECT FROM ¶ PRIVATE VIOLENCE, Summer, 2004
18 St. John's J.L. Comm. 849] //AG
Social contract theory originated… basis for their governmental ¶ forms.21

If the state extends its actions past these reciprocal relations, then its rules cannot have moral grounding because it’s operating beyond its prescribed function. Obligations have to be consistent with the function of the actor. A. Obligations differ from agent to agent, for example, a doctor may be obligated to perform life saving surgery whereas an ordinary citizen is not. Thus to determine an actors obligations the most relevant question is of the agent. B. Identities are how we derive our moral obligations—A school and a hospital have different identities and thus would have different obligations.

Thus the standard is minimizing harm.

Prefer this standard additionally because:

1. It’s the only non-arbitrary ethical framework because everyone is given equal moral worth and we take actions that maximize good consequences. Morality cannot be arbitrary to be a coherent guide to action or it could authorize multiple contradictory claims.
2. Policy makers have to consider of the protection of citizens of rights because they give them the power to act—we should role play them
Adam Blatner, M.D. ROLE PLAYING IN EDUCATION [First written in 1995, and corrected October 18, 2009] //AG
Role-playing is a methodology … challenges of the Twenty-Firsrot Century.
Real world education is key—it’s the only portable skill from debate applicable to the real world, which is important because portable skills help positively impact our lives out of round.
3. All philosophical frameworks assume ends based calculus because they all seek to prevent some harm and promote some other good—util only maximizes that.

PART TWO IS THE NATURE OF RETRIBUTION

A] Rehabilitation is still a form of punishment. This means the neg has to prove why the act of rehabilitation is by itself bad or any risk of a net benefit means you affirm.
Fergus McNeill, Professor of Criminology & Social Work University of Glasgow [“When Punishment is Rehabilitation”, http://blogs.iriss.org.uk/discoveringdesistance/files/2012/06/McNeill-When-PisR.pdf, (forthcoming) The Springer Encyclopedia of Criminology ¶ and Criminal Justice. Springer.] //AG
When Rehabilitation is Punishment. Before trying to … relationships with punishment.

The question of how much punishment is nonsense because it begs the question of how much punishment is justified. As long as rehabilitation is punitive, any net benefit to rehab means you affirm—rehab encompasses retribution whereas retribution doesn’t encompass rehab.

B] Retribution makes no sense—there’s no non arbitrary way to assign punishment
Greg Roebuck, Melbourne Law School and David Alan Russell Wood, Melbourne Law School [“A Retributive Argument Against Punishment”, Criminal Law and Philosophy, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2011, U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 521, SSRN] //AG
It is necessary, then… does not even claim to do so).

PART THREE IS THE PLAN

I advocate the rehabilitation of non-violent, low-level drug offenders through a system of “virtual incarceration” through ankle bracelet and smart phone technology
PRI, Public Radio International [“Panelists introduce high-tech prison reform at SXSW”, 12 March, 2013 09:00:00] //AG
Among the literally …putting them together."

This revolutionizes the way we punish—instead of wasting money on prisons, a system of virtual rehabilitation can create conditions that reduce recidivism
¶ Alan Holden, Deloitte Consulting LLP, +1 571 814 7516, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:aholden@deloitte.com|aholden@deloitte.com]]</span> and Kara Shuler, Deloitte Consulting LLP, +1 571 814 7306, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:kshuler@deloitte.com|kshuler@deloitte.com]]</span>. Alan Holden is senior consultant in Deloitte Consulting LLP, and alumnus of the GovLab ¶ Fellows Program. Kara Shuler is a senior consultant with Deloitte Consulting LLP, and alumnus of the GovLab ¶ Fellows Program.¶ [“Beyond the Bars: A new model of virtual incarcerationfor low-risk offenders: A GovLab idea”, Copyright © 2013 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved.] //AG
Support services delivered ¶ via smartphone … before the call.

Sending low level offenders to prison only creates conditions that increase recidivism
Martin H. Pritikin, Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997. The author would like to thank Kimberly Olson for her research assistance and Rina for everything. [ “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, Copyright (c) 2008 The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Wisconsin Law Review¶ 2008, Lexis] //AG
Some argue … is still uncertain.

Crime causes the most direct harm to society
LISE MCKEAN, PH.D, Deputy Director of CIR. Dr. McKean is the director of the Income Support Access Project, the Alternatives to Incarceration Project, and the First Accounts Study. She received her Ph.D. in Social Anthropology from the University of Sydney, M.A. from the University of Hawai'i, and B.A. from the University of Chicago. Her book, Divine Enterprise: Gurus and the Hindu Nationalist Movement is based on her research in India and published by the University of Chicago Press [“CURRENT STRATEGIES FOR REDUCING RECIDIVISM”, CENTER FOR IMPACT RESEARCH, AUGUST 2004] //AG
The enormous and expanding … of low<span style="font-family: 'Adobe Arabic';">‐</span>income¶ households.

I solve for the root cause of crime by allowing individuals to stay with their families.
William P. Barr [“Crime, Poverty and the Family”, July 29, 1992] //AG
Disintegration of the Family. This family … structure is taken into account.

==Negative== 
===1NC-- Consistent Punishment=== 

**I negate, which is defined as to deny the truth of. Bradley explains the negative advocacy:**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Gerard V. Bradley</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> noted scholar in the fields of constitutional law, Cornell Law School, expert in Criminal Law & Procedure. [“RETRIBUTION AND THE SECONDARY AIMS OF PUNISHMENT”, From the American Journal of Jurisprudence (1999)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(44 Am. J. Juris. 105)] //AG//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Or do they all? In Part I of this paper, </span><span style="font-family: Arial;">I defend ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> more aims of punishment?</span>//

**The value is morality. Morality requires reason to guide action- the way we validate truth statements is through reason.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Korsgaard [ “The Activity of Reason”, Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 2008)</span>
In the case of theoretical reasons...**__us to the truth.__**

Reason cannot be arbitrary (two warrants)

**Thus, the standard is** **preventing an arbitrary application of punishment, meaning that similar crimes should receive similar punishment.**
(two more analytical warrants)

**I contend that rehabilitation is arbitrary in assigning punishment-- even if two criminals commit the same crime, they are treated differently**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">CHARLES H. </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">LOGAN,</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> University of Connecticut </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> GERALD G. </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">GAES</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">, Federal Bureau of Prisons [META-ANALYSIS AND THE REHABILITATION OF PUNISHMENT, USTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993. http://www.bop.gov/news/research_projects/published_reports/cond_envir/oreprlogangaes.pdf] Akhil Gandra</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Proponents believe that rehabilitation ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">the rubric of rehabilitation.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Published in the JUSTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993</span>

**On balance, the goals of retribution are consistent**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brian J. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ostrom et al</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Charles W. Ostrom, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roger A. Hanson, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Kleiman [“Assessing Consistency </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Fairness in Sentencing”, the National </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Center for State Courts, 2008] </span>AG
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Sentencing guidelines</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are ... aim of the current research.</span>

However, proving that rehabilitation is arbitrary is sufficient to negate because it still denies the truth of the aff
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]