[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Arbitrariness is not allowed.

__**Cole 1**__ **(**//David Cole [Professor constitutional law, national security, and criminal justice at Georgetown University Law Center] "Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?" 2003//**//.)//**

**//If the state...//**

__**Cole**__ **2 (" ")**

**Most citizens become citizens...**

__**Cole 3**__ (" ")

The constitution does distinguish in some respects...

V) Justice

C) Human Rights

Ought - Moral Obligation, Morality > Pragmatism

Nickel (//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">"The Contemporary Significance of human rights."Human Rights (1992): n.pag. Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Web. 23 Aug 2012. <http://www.iep.utm.edu/hum-rts/>)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Human rights have been defined...</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">C1) Due process links human rights </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Cole 4 (</span>////David Cole interview by Rose Gutfeld, "The US Constitution and the Rights of Non-Citizens," Ford Foundation Report, Fall 2003)//

//... the government has conducted a mass...//

//Dickinson (////Dickinson, Laura A [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. "Using Legal Process to Fight Terrorism: Detentions, Military Commissions, International Tribunals, and the Rule of Law." Southern California Law Review (2002) http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~usclrev/pdf/075602.pdf//**//.)//**

**//Because of intense secrecy...//**

**//Gregory (//**//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony Gregory, 2005. "Suspected Terrorists Deserve Due Process."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. )</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terrorism is a monstrous crime...</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C2) Civilian Courts (Anthony D. Romero, 2010, "</span>//Terrorists Are Criminals and Should be Tried in Civilian Court - US News and World Report")


==Negative== 

We are at war.

Hirsh (Michael Hirsh, 2012, "Is the War on Terror Over? - National Security Experts")

Now an anonymous State Department...

V) Morality

C) Consistency with US Constitution 

O1) 5th Amendment

C1) Further Reasoning 

Etzioni (Amitai Etzioni, 2010, "Terrorists: Not criminals or soldiers but a distinct species - CNN")

The time has come for all...

Constitutional Rights Foundation (//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Sources: President Issues Military Order (Nov. 13, 2001) available at www.whitehouse.gov; "Rules for military tribunals unveiled (Mar. 20, 2001) available at www.msnbc.com; "Fact Sheet, Department of Defense Order on Military Commissions (Mar. 21, 2002) available at www.defenselink.mil; Edward Barrett, Constitutional Law (Mineola: The Foundation Press, 1973) 557-562.; Louis Fisher, "Bush Cant rely on the FDR Precedent, Los Angeles Times, Dec. 20, 2001; Reuters, "Legal Expert Attacks U.S. Plan for Military Courts," (Nov.23, 2002) available at www.newsfindlaw.com; Richard Morin and Claudia Deane, "Most Americans Back U.S. Tactics," (Nov. 11, 2002) The Washington Post on Line available at www.washingtonpost.com; Laura W. Murphy, Bush Order on Military Tribunals Is Further Evidence That Government Is Abandoning Democracy's Checks and Balances, (Nov. 14, 2002) available at www.aclu.org.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Supporters of military...</span>//


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]