=**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">AFFIRMATIVE U of M</span>**= 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Contention 1 is Inherency: First, New Orleans is dangerously exposed to the next big storm</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Barry 8/30</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">/12 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">Jon M. Barry is the author of several books, including //Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927// and //How it Changed America//, and //Roger Williams and the Creation of the American Soul: Church, State, and the Birth of Liberty//, released in January. He is a member of the Lousiana Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The bottom line is that </span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">New</span>__**...
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">1993 floods on the upper Mississippi</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Second, New Orleans’ Current Evacuation Plan can only move 30 thousand of its population of over 1 million</span>**
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 21.3333px;">UNO</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> 5/31/</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 26.6667px;">12</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">, University of New Orleans, “UNO Urban Transportation Expert Helps Residents Prepare for Hurricane Season”, accessed 10/07/12, from : <</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uno.edu/news/UNOintheNews/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/333/UNO-Urban-Transportation-Expert-Helps-Residents-Prepare-for-Hurricane-Season]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;">Hurricane season has arrived</span>..


<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">concerns and raise public awareness.</span>


===<span style="text-align: center;">__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Plan</span>__</span>=== 
**The plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in New Orleans.**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">1. Contention two is racism. The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Wailoo</span>** et al.**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A landmark decision most</span>....
**​**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;">cheaper than those owned by whites</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">. </span>


**2. No disaster is natural – who lives and who dies is part of a social calculus based on how much a society decides to care for the under privileged. FEMA didn’t just make mistakes for a few months—the death and suffering stemming from Katrina were decades in the making.**

**Smith 06 –**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, “There’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster” March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )//ALo//</span>



//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It is generally accepted among</span>...//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">population in New Orleans most vulnerable. </span>//


//**3. Transportation policy is the root of transportation inequality – this lies at the heart of racial, environmental inequality, and classism.**//

//**Pastor** <span style="font-size: 12px;">et al.</span>**06**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf</span>//


//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">How consequential is racial inequality</span>...//

//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">social characteristics that we now turn. </span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">4. It’s not just about New Orleans—Katrina highlighted the pervasive suffering caused by racialized poverty everywhere. </span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Luft 2009 </span>–** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor, Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara (Rachel, “Beyond Disaster Exceptionalism: Social Movement Developmentsin New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina” </span>//American Quarterly//, Volume 61, Number 3, September 2009, http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.477.pdf<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> )</span>//ALo



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Traditionally, scholars have distinguished</span>..
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in late 2008, “</span>Welcome to Katrina world.”

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">5. The horrors of Katrina justify the statement: ‘Never again’. The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime that looked on as thousands perished, reflective of a fascist machine where democracy is lost. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Giroux, 06</span>**– Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//

//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Hurricane Katrina may have reversed</span>//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">where democracy has lost its claims</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">” (2005, 122,124).</span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">6. Racism creates a permanent condition of war</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mendieta 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf</span>//



//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is where racism intervenes, </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and foes are biological in nature. </span>//


//**7. Racism outweighs every impact – it’s the precondition to ethical political decision making.**//

//**MEMMI****2000 –**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>//



//**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">The struggle against racism</span>__**...//

//we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.//

//**8. Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**//
//**Wolshon, 06** – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”, http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)//BZ

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Although little can be done to</span>...

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">torms in Louisiana and elsewhere.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">1. Contention 3 is Capitalism: Current reconstruction efforts erase the minority populations present in the pre-Katrina time – the rebuilding of the coast has been filled with capitalist intentions. The affirmatives focus on the victims of Katrina reverses this and is the only way to solve</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hayden 10</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Bridget, phd, cultural anthropologist interested in the experience of globalization and political-economic change at the University of Southern Mississippi, “The Hand of God: Capitalism, Inequality, and Moral Geographies in Mississippi After Hurricane Katrina”, //Anthropological Studies,//</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/216476807/138204CE9BB22DFAD77/18?accountid=14667)//AMV</span>**



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The Coast is being rebuilt at a time...</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">this had been a well-kept secret. </span>


====2. Even if they win capitalism benefits some, it impoverishes over 80% of people==== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">DeSoto 2k</span> (Hernando, president of the institute for liberty and democracy, “The Mystery of Capital: why capitalism triumphs in the West and fails everywhere else” Pg. 5-8 JF)

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">In this book I intend to demonstrate that</span>...
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">it is represented by a clock or a calendar. </span>


====3. Capitalism turns everything into commodities to be exploited. The continual drive for growth destroys the earth and makes life meaningless.==== 

Fred <span style="font-size: 16px;">Magdoff </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">11</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">professor emeritus of plant and soil science at the University of Vermon , What Every Environmentalist Needs to Know about Capitalism: A Citizen's Guide to Capitalism and the Environment. New York: Monthly Review, 2011. Print.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Today, our </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Mother Earth is wounded...</span>**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">with nature and respect for life.</span>**</span>


**1. Contention 4 is Framing. Impacts should be viewed through the lens of environmental and racial justice– this is necessary to understand and rebuild after Katrina.**

**Sze 06**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Julie Sze is an assistant professor in American Studies at the University of California, Davis. Her forthcoming book on the culture, politics and history of environmental justice activism in New York City is under contract with MIT Press. It looks at the intersection of planning and health, especially through the prism of asthma, and at changes in garbage and energy systems as a result of privatization, globalization and deregulation. Toxic Soup Redux: Why Environmental Racism and Environmental Justice Matter after Katrina By Julie Sze Published on: Jun 11, 2006 </span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Thus__,__ </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the Gulf Coast region was, </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">displaced or in some cases perhaps dead. </span>


**2. Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES Katrina–like disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.**

**Morse 08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> )//ALo</span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">American transportation model</span>..
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">interim care and treatment. </span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">194</span>


**3. Integrating ethical obligations to the other in politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism.**

**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Levinas argues for a place for both.. </span>

Levinas calls for the liberal state<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**4. The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Since </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">‘it is impossible to escape the State</span>__****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">’</span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">contrary of what it wants to secure.</span>


**5. Sacrificing action in the political sphere causes bad policymaking and ends in extinction**

**Boggs 2000** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2K CAROL, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1) Herm </span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading</span>..
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">pragmatic, muddling-through</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">modus operandi.</span>


====1. Contention 5 is impact calculus. First, Great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition==== 

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Deudney and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Ikenberry 09</span> [Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration...</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that would benefit themselves. </span>


====2. Second, No extinction—humanity resilient==== 

Bruce <span style="font-size: 16px;">Tonn</span>, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2005</span>, “Human Extinction Scenarios,” [[@http://www.budapestfutures.org/|www.budapestfutures.org/]] downloads/abstracts/Bruce% 20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The human species faces</span>**</span>...

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">extinction with respect to single events</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


====3. Third, good decision-making requires you to reject their fixation on worst-case scenarios==== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rescher ‘83</span>

[Nicholas, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The "worst possible case fixation.." </span>**</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;">gravity of a situation of hazard.</span>

==== ==== 
====4. Fourth, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">STRUCTURAL VIOLENCE OUTWEIGHS AND LIES AT THE ROOT CAUSE OF ALL OTHER FORMS OF VIOLENCE</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gilligan 96</span> – [James, Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical and Director of the Center for the Study of Violence “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and Its Causes,” p191-196]cn

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The 14 to 18 million deaths...</span>

<span class="underline">related to each other, as cause to effect</span>.


====5. Fifth, We have an obligation to assist the helpless Other, even in the face of extinction==== 

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Jovanovic and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Wood 04</span>, Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively

(Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">On September 11</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> 2001, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">terrorism</span>...
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">lated to each other, as cause to effect.</span>