[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==HSR 1ac== 

===**Plan: The United States Federal Government will substantially invest in a national high-speed passenger rail. Funding, enforcement, and administration will be through necessary means.**=== 



**Contention 1: Inherency, or what is happening in the status quo.**
**High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program would grant High-speed rail access to 80% of the country within 25 years, but was cancelled.**
**Dovell 2012**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(U.S. Rail Infrastructure, Author: Elizabeth Dovell, Contributor, March 7, 2012, Council on Foreign Relations, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/us-rail-infrastructure/p27585]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> , accessed May 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Policy Options Over the past three decades, aviation and highway infrastructure have received more than a trillion more </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.trainweb.org/moksrail/advocacy/resources/subsidies/transport.htm|federal dollars]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than rail. For nearly a decade, Amtrak's federal funding was stagnant or falling. But in 2008, a year with historically high gasoline prices, Congress nearly </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122298615110699903.html|doubled rail funding (WSJ)]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span> **__When President Obama took ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> far into the future."</span>

**Contention 2: Solvency or why the plan would solve.**
**HSR will work with US’s population density.**
**De Chant 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(U.S. not dense enough for high-speed rail? Think again, May 27, 2011, Tim de Chant, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://persquaremile.com/2011/05/27/u-s-not-dense-enough-for-high-speed-rail-think-again/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Low population densities are**__...__**</span> **__are seen across the U.S.__**



**Track improvements will lead to more riders. This is empirical evidence from the United States.**
**White House Press release in 2011**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(February 08, 2011, Vice President Biden Announces Six Year Plan to Build National High-Speed Rail Network, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/02/08/vice-president-biden-announces-six-year-plan-build-national-high-speed-r]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">accessed May 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Vice President made .... for more Americans.”</span>

**No other form of funding solves-Federal involvement is critical for coordination and sustaining projects****.**
Sweet, Ph.D. candidate at the University of Pennsylvania, in 2009
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">( Matthias N. Sweet, Ph.D. candidate at the University of Pennsylvania City and Regional Planning “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States.” Chapter 13: Financing High-speed Rail, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.design.upenn.edu/hsr2011/planningforhsr.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span class="cardChar2">**__Capital costs for HSR__**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">are**__...__**</span><span class="cardChar2"> **__long-term support.__**</span>




**Government action key to inspire businesses – they need to see a firm commitment****.**
**Cable 2011**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Josh Cable June 22, 2011 “High-Speed Rail: Mixed Signals” Industry Week http://www.industryweek.com/articles/high-speed_rail_mixed_signals_24853.aspx?ShowAll=1) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">In February 2010, </span><span class="cardChar2">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Siemens announced ...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">to put those jobs in this country."</span>__**</span>




**Advantage 1: Economy**
**First, the economy is down – employment, investment, and fiscal tightening are the reasons. US downturn threatens global recession.**
**Adam on July 16, 2012**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Gross Says U.S. Nearing Recession, Goldman Sachs Cuts Forecast </span><span style="color: #535353; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">By Shamim Adam on July 16, 2012 http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-16/gross-says-u-dot-s-dot-nearing-recession-as-goldman-sachs-cuts-forecast</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Pacific Investment Management ... to undertake easing action.”</span>




**A high-speed rail would improve the economy. It would improve economic competitiveness, revitalize manufacturing sector, spur economic development and creating green, high-wage jobs for tens of thousands of people and move the transportation industry in a sustainable direction.**
//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Lahood 2011</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Official Blog of Ray LaHood, the U.S. Secretary of Transportation, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://fastlane.dot.gov/2011/01/passenger-rail-investments-add-needed-capacity-to-americas-transportation-infrastructure.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, January 13, 2011,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Passenger rail investments **__...__**</span>**__America’s economic growth.__**

**The plan would create jobs, benefit private businesses, and create long term investment opportunities.**
**Pascal 2009**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://themoderatevoice.com/52639/investment-advice-for-the-next-decade-trains-infrastructure/|Investment Advice for the Next Decade: Trains & Infrastructure]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, MARC PASCAL, Nov 10th, 2009, </span><span class="sendloveholder" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Marc Pascal</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in Phoenix, AZ, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://themoderatevoice.com/52639/investment-advice-for-the-next-decade-trains-infrastructure/]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">accessed May 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Unfortunately these rail ...personal investments accordingly.</span>


**U.S. is still the world’s largest economy and importer – spillovers are important, especially during market stress** 
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Berezin (Ph. D in Economics) and others in 2007</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(*Thomas Helbing, advisor in the IMF's Research Department where he focuses on commodity market prospects *Peter Berezin, Ph. D in Economics from the University of Toronto, a Master of Science (Economics) from the London School of Economics and a Bachelor of Arts (Economics) from McMaster University. He has extensive experience in analyzing global economic and financial market trends *Ayhan Kose Ph.D. in Economics, H. B. Tippie College of Business, University of Iowa. *Michael Kumhof, PhD at Stanford in Econ *Doug Laxton, the Head of the Economic Modeling Unit of the IMF's Research Department. *Nikola Spatafora, Senior Economist in the Research Department, Development Macroeconomics Division, of the IMF “Decoupling the Train? Spillovers and Cycles in the Global Economy” </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.contexto.org/pdfs/FMIecdecouplingUS.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) MFR </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As a starting point.... financial linkages with U.S. markets.</span>

**Economic downturn makes conflict more likely- strong statistical support.**
**Royal (Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense) in 2010** 
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Less intuitive is how</span>**__...__**<span class="cardChar2">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> increase in the use of force..</span>__**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Advantage 2 – Food prices</span>**
**First, US dependence on oil creates an incentive to move to biofuels.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rogers 12</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Higher Oil Prices: An Opportunity to Kic By </span><span style="color: #0f427b; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/contributors/will-rogers.php|Will Rogers]]</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Bacevich Fellow, Center for a New American Security http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/01/how-could-high-oil-prices-shap.php</span>//
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Iran’s threat to </span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that is long overdue.</span>



**The plan solves oil dependence the best. Alternative energy won’t solve oil dependence anytime soon.**
Perl (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science) in 2011
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Anthony Perl is Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, where he directs the Urban Studies Program. November 19, 2011 “How green is high-speed rail?” http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Since </span><span class="cardChar2">**__electricity__** </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">is an**__...__**</span><span class="cardChar2"> **__sooner, rather than later.__**</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Rising corn prices from biofuel mandates affect world hunger and political stability.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">McHaney October 11, 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Sarah McHaney October 11 2012 U.S.: High Corn Prices Spread Global Hunger and Instability http://www.ipsnews.net/2012/10/high-u-s-corn-prices-spread-global-hunger-and-instability/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON, Oct 10 2012 (IPS) - </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Rising corn ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> ActionAid report concluded. down</span>

<span class="Heading2Char1">**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">And even a modest price increase in food can be life threatening for 3 billion people.</span>**</span>
<span class="Heading2Char1">**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Brown 5</span>**</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lester, President – Earth Policy Institute, , People and the Planet, “Falling Water Tables 'Could Hit Food Supply'”, 2-7, http://www.peopleandplanet.net/doc.php?id=2424)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many Americans see**__...__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">overriding concern."</span>__**
== == 


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]