[[toc]]
Aff - lutorus@gmail.com
Neg - brian.cai75@gmail.com
[[media type="custom" key="22203086"]]
=Affirmative= 
==Woodward== 
===Advantage 1 is the North=== 
Scenario 1 is Russia

Risk of conflict is high.
Tassinari 9/7 Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, "Avoiding a Scramble for the High North", http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/
The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players
AND
not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.

The plan reverses this trend – a clear signal is key to avert Arctic war.
Dowd 11– MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, "The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic," [[https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id2147483979-https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id2147483979]]
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

Russia won~’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves
Dawkins 11 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, "Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)//moxley</span>
Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorial gain from the Arctic,
AND
Russian export market and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.

Those go nuclear
Wallace, 10 (Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, "Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue", http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.
AND
a priority the preservation of U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility
y and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater
AND
geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change."

Best scholarship proves our impact
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, "Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences," The Polar Journal, 2.1)
It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one
AND
the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.

Scenario 2 is Spills

First, drilling is inevitable
Llanos 12 (Miguel, "US claims ~’unprecedented~’ success in test for new fuel source," May 5^^th^^, 2012, http://usnews.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/05/05/11522433-us-claims-unprecedented-success-in-test-for-new-fuel-source?lite)
Could the future of cleaner fossil fuel really be frozen crystals now trapped in ocean
AND
in developing production technology to access this potential resource while sequestering carbon dioxide."

Icebreaking prevents drilling accidents
Jones et al 7 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Professor @ UVA, Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University, member of the Defense Science Board, the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Corporation, the National Research Council Advisory Council for Policy and Global Affairs, and the MIT Corporation)</span>
The U S Coast Guard seeks to protect the nation~’s natural resources by eliminating environmental
AND
new polar icebreakers to be equipped wilh the latest technology for oil spill response

Prevents oil spills that cause methane pollution
Schneider 12 (Michael, Advocacy Director – Clean Air Task Force, "Curb Methane Emissions," National Journal, 7-25, http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/07/is-arctic-oil-drilling-ready-f.php?commentsexpandall~~%23comments)
For several weeks now the public and the media have cast increasing attention on Arctic
AND
associated with oil and natural gas, in some cases by almost 100%.

Extinction
WWF 10 ("Drilling for Oil in the Arctic Too Soon Too Risky" http://worldwildlife.org/publications/drilling-for-oil-in-the-arctic-too-soon-too-risky)
The Arctic and the subarctic regions surrounding it are important for many reasons. One
AND
of any credible and tested means of responding effectively to a major spill.
===Advantage 2 is the South=== 

The Antarctic Treaty is being undermined now.
VOXY 12 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Voxy News, "Antarctica may come under threat – UC" expert, The expert is Brian Storev of the University of Canterbury, September 19</span>^^th^^<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, 2012, http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/antarctica-may-come-under-threat-uc-expert/5/135147)//moxley</span>
The near pristine environment of Antarctica will in time come under a threat in future
AND
being extracted from Antarctica within the next 36 years? Dr Storey said.

The plan is key – US presence maintains the treaty
NRC 07 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. "Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id11753%26page2)//moxley-http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id11753%26page2)//moxley]]</span> *figure 2 excluded
With the increased interest in Antarctica, human presence has increased over the years as
AND
to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field sites.

That’s key to solve science diplomacy
Collins 11 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, "Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges", 6/16/11,</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php-http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php]]) </span>
The success of world co-operation based on science and practiced since the Cold
AND
and people to work together in decision-making on shared global interests."

Solves a laundry list of impacts.
Federoff 8 – ina Fedoroff 8, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, [[http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm-http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm]]
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank
AND
a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.
===Solvency=== 

PLAN: The United States federal government should develop and deploy single purpose polar class icebreakers.

The plan is key – icebreaking capabilities are a prerequisite to polar presence
NRC 07 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. "Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id11753%26page2)moxley
The committee finds that both operations and maintenance of the polar icebreaker fleet have been
AND
Arctic. Other agencies should reimburse incremental costs associated with directed mission tasking.

USFG is key
NRC 07 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. "Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id11753%26page2)moxley
The committee was asked to consider alternative ship ownership options. Considering the McMurdo break
AND
and "should be operated by the U.S. Coast Guard."

Russia only respects shows of force – boosting the credibility of deterrence is key
Cohen et al 08<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security; Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation; Jim Dolbow is a defense analyst and a member of the Editorial Board at the U.S. Naval Institute, "The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic," The Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder No. 2202, 10-30-2008, [[http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf-http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf]])</span>
Russian Ambitions. Russia recognizes the multifaceted potential of the Arctic andis moving rapidly to
AND
toward the Arctic has been irresolute and inadequate. This needs to change.

We have a couple icebreakers but it~’s not enough – we need additional funding.
PopMechanics 12-7-12 [Popular Mechanics, By Kalee Thompson; "Where Are America~’s Badly Needed Icebreakers?"; 12/7/2012; http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/navy-ships/where-are-americas-badly-needed-icebreakers-14829862?clickpm_latest; Boyce]
When the heavy-duty icebreaker Polar Star pulls away from the Coast Guard pier
AND
, a polar research vessel, is due to enter service in 2014.

Here~’s a single distinction
POAC 95 (13th International Conference on Port and Ocean Engineering under Arctic Condition, August15th - 18,1995 Murmansk, Russia, http://www.poac.com/Papers/POAC95_V4_all.pdf)//moxley
Initially the word icebreaker was used for a ship, which was intended to break
AND
been designed and constructed to do icebreaking by herself in defined ice conditions.

==UGA== 

===PLAN:=== 
The United States Federal Government should invest in Straddler infrastructure as free and accessible mass transit.

===Contention 1 is Racism=== 

Transportation racism exists in the squo—unequal funding for roads versus mass transit causes racism and economic apartheid
**Bernstein and Solomon 11** (Andrea and Nancy, American Radio Works contributors/producers, "Back of the Bus: Mass transit, race, and inequality." Originally broadcasted 2/18/11 date, online, [[http://transportationnation.org/backofthebus/-http://transportationnation.org/backofthebus/]]
~~Brian
"Transportation in Atlanta has always been mired in race and racism," says Robert
AND
spent on roads. The remaining 20 percent is spent on mass transit.

Racism outweighs everything else
**Memmi 2k**
MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

Unequal transportation funding is the legacy of racism. Equitable transportation funding is key to breaking down racism
**EJRC 04**, Environmental Justice Resource Center, Suburban Sprawl and Transportation Racism, Clark Atlanta University, 9/23/04, <[[http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html-http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html]]> ~~Brian
In the United States, all communities do not receive the same benefits from transportation
AND
infrastructure, they receive only about 10 percent of every dollar they generate.

===Contention 2 is Neoliberalism=== 

Current mass transit systems are neoliberal decisions that put economic self-interest before equality. They support a few financial elites through focusing on profit maximization.
**Farmer** **11** (Stephanie, "Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA" Environment and Planning A) [[http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf-http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf]]
Contemporary urbanization processes are strongly shaped by the logic and policies of neoliberalism. Neoliberal
AND
one of a constellation of institutions that create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.

Urban development projects are used as literal barriers to separate the wealthy from the poor – This type of social exclusion psychologically allows the rich to continue capitalistic oppression (Boar-Zhwah – Zeee)
**Kester 93** (Grant H., "Out of Sight Is out of Mind: The Imaginary Space of Postindustrial Culture" Social Text, No. 35 (Summer, 1993), pp. 72-92; <http://www.jstor.org/stable/466444>~~ASmiley
The spatial proximity of residential neighborhoods and factories within the industrial city made some visual
AND
into spatial divisions between "First" and "Third" world.14

Neoliberalism requires a logic whereby whole populations are sacrificed in favor of the expansion of markets.
**Santos 03** (Boaventura de Sousa, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, EUROZINE, COLLECTIVE SUICIDE OR GLOBALIZATION FROM BELOW, [[http://www.eurozine.com/article/2003-03-26-santos-en.html-http://www.eurozine.com/article/2003-03-26-santos-en.html]])
Sacrificial genocide arises from a totalitarian illusion that is manifested in the belief that there
AND
to pay the health costs of the world~’s poorest countries for four years.

Free mass transit is the key to developing an anti-neoliberalism movement—rejecting the capitalizing of public goods creates genuine political dialogues and visions on social problems
**Schein**, assistant professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, **11** (Rebecca, 2011, "Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing the Political Potential of Toronto~’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign," Alternate Routes: A Journal of Critical Social Research, Volume: 22, p. 115, EBB)
Toronto~’s system increasingly treats transit as a commodity, consumed and paid for by individual
AND
, public goods, collective priorities, and public accountability for resource allocation.

===Contention 3 is Framework=== 

Apocalyptic rhetoric should be abandoned as a political strategy – it incorrectly levels questions of probability and actual magnitude of events
**Gross** new media strategist **%26 Gilles** domestic abuse advocate **2012** Matthew Barrett %26 Mel The Atlantic 4/23
[[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/04/how-apocalyptic-thinking-prevents-us-from-taking-political-action/255758/-http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/04/how-apocalyptic-thinking-prevents-us-from-taking-political-action/255758/]]
Flip through the cable channels for long enough, and you~’ll inevitably find the apocalypse
AND
would ever confuse a meteor barreling toward Earth as anything other than apocalyptic.

Structural violence outweighs and causes all impacts
**Gilligan 96** – ~~[James, Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical and Director of the Center for the Study of Violence "Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and Its Causes," p191-196~~]cn
The 14 to 18 million deaths a year caused by structural violence compare with about
AND
for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect.

Be highly skeptical of their defenses of this neoliberalism – they control the framing of policy discussions. We must move away from this frame that seems like common sense and question it.
**Ross** Prof of Education U British Columbia **2010** E. Wayne Resisting the Common-nonsense of Neoliberalism: A Report from British Columbia Workplace ~~%2317 [[http://firgoa.usc.es/drupal/files/ross.pdf-http://firgoa.usc.es/drupal/files/ross.pdf]]
The first step in resisting neoliberalism is realizing that we are not "all in
AND
assumptions underlying the frame are typically unquestioned or at least under-analyzed.

===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 

Straddlers is this cool type of transportation built on top of the highways that were original built to benefit the financial elites and generally whites – This equalizes highway access as well as generates elite and working class interaction, breaking down social barriers – Ask for a picture in cross-ex
**Wassener and Deng 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(BETTINA and ANDREA, Bettina Wassener is the writer for The International Herald Tribune/NYT and has an MSc in European politics and a BSc in international relations, Andrea Deng is a reporter at China Daily Hong Kong Ltd, research intern at International Herald Tribune)</span> <[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/18/business/global/18bus.html?hpw-http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/18/business/global/18bus.html?hpw]]> ~~Brian
To address the country~’s problems with traffic and air quality, Shenzhen Huashi Future Parking
AND
the works in Beijing, and several other Chinese cities have shown interest.

Congressional action is key to address inequalities in transportation
**Dombroski 05** (Matthew, J.D., James Kent Scholar, Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, Managing Editor "Securing Access to Transportation for the Urban Poor," Jstor)
Of course, the creation of a legal right is not the only way in
AND
most affected by the current highway dominated transportation regime: the urban poor.

Free mass transit is empirically feasible and has ridership
**Olsen 07** ~~[Dave, Journalist for The Tyee, "Fare-Free Public Transit Could Be Headed to a City Near You", [[http://www.alternet.org/story/57802/farefree_public_transit_could_be_headed_to_a_ city_near_you-http://www.alternet.org/story/57802/farefree_public_transit_could_be_headed_to_a_ city_near_you]], 7/26/07, Accessed: 7/12/12~~] JDO
ecently I met the people who run Island Transit in Whidbey Island, Wash.,
AND
1,223 percent, and ridership continues to go up every day.

Straddlers are cheaper and less disruptive than subways, don~’t add congestion like buses, and can be quickly built
**Farquhar 10**, PETER Senior writer and editor at News Digital Media
<http://www.news.com.au/technology/take-the-high-road-with-fast-bus-of-the-future/story-e6frfro0-1225901245953> ~~Brian
IMAGINE one day you~’re stuck in a smelly Beijing gridlock and you~’re suddenly overtaken by
AND
lines painted on either side of the road. Graffiti terrorists take note.
==Chattahoochee== 
===Contention 1 is the Economy=== 
Lack of jobs and government inaction hurts the US economy; No sustainable growth now
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">HOMAN & CHADRA 5 – 17 – 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bloomberg Economics Reporters</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Timothy R. Homan and Shobhana Chandra, Confidence Sinks As U.S. Job Market Progress Stalls: Economy, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/jobless-claims-in-u-s-were-unchanged-at-370-000-last-week.html]]</span>
__Consumer confidence fell__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …showdown on the federal debt. </span>

Economic lows increase the likelihood for global war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>

That leads to nuclear prolifernation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kemp 10 (Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs – Nixon Center and Former Director of the Middle East Arms Control Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-234)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second scenario, … </span>the planet’s population<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Internal Links
First is the economic stimulus
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan injects money into the economy </span>
**NEXA 11** (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company “NextGen Equipage Fund” April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an important recent study, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the U.S. Economy”i, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) estimated that civil aviation accounted for 12 million U.S. jobs and $1.3 trillion in economic activity annually. FAA also estimated that implementing the Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”)</span>
Infrastructure and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be lost permanently</span>

Second is the aviation industry:
<span style="color: windowtext;">The 1.3 trillion aviation industry will benefit from next gen</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">HUERTA 12 Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration [Michael P. Huerta; March 2012; “NextGen Implementation Plan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WHy NextGeN MatteRS … </span>NextGen is intended to do just that<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Third is jobs
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NextGen generates recovery through jobs and business efficiency</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calio 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]</span>
With broad consensus … national ambition to win

Fourth is congestion
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NextGen ends airport congestion – boosting America’s economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schank 6/23</span>
[Joshua L. Schank, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation, 6/23/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]
We often …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> be more involved</span>.

===Contention 2 is Hegemony=== 
Sequestration kills the Aerospace industry now – that’s key to American heg
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stevens 3/14<span style="font-size: 10pt;">/12</span></span>
[Robert J. Stevens, Fellow of the American Astronautical Society, the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), the Royal Aeronautical Society, and the International Academy of Astronautics, CEO of lockheed martin, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/us/news/speeches/031412-stevens.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, as Senator Chambliss alluded … integrity in business conduct.</span>


Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GOMEZ et al 12 </span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy “Dependence on key customers”, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)]</span>
Demand in the aerospace market … likely impact PCP.

Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Aerospace Week 10</span> (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.</span>

Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Barnett 11</span> (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]
It is worth first examining the larger … Pacific Century now unfolding.

And, US __pursuit__ of hegemony is inevitable – only a question of effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calleo</span>, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘10</span>
(David P, “American Decline Revisited,” //Survival//, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of <span class="IntenseEmphasis">the past two decades suggest</span>s <span class="IntenseEmphasis">… </span>the world with inflation.

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 

<span style="font-size: 20pt;">PLAN: The United States federal government should invest in upgrading air traffic control infrastructure to NextGen.</span>

The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Invest in NextGen to … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">minimum levels of equipage. </span>

Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bin Salam 12 </span>Fellow, EnoCenter for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]
The aviation system that is … delivered in a timely manner if at all.

Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most US operators have … the larger industry.37 </span>

Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those
Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]
Conclusion
NextGen is faced <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">there are benefits involved.</span>


=Neg Strats= 
==Chattahoochee Cougar Classic== 
===Round 2 - Dunwoody FO=== 
**1AC**
Sustain w/ Terror + Hotspots

**1NC**
T- in the USFG
T- TI is not military
Case
Security

**2NC**
T- TI is not military
Security

**1NR**
T- In the USFG
Case

**2NC**
T- in the USFG
Security
Case

===Round 3 - Wheeler KS=== 
**1AC**
CCS w/ Warming and Hegemony

**1NC**
Case Turns
Federalism

**2NC**
Case Turns

**1NR**
Federalism

**2NR**
Case Turns

===Round 5 - Carrollton MB=== 
**1AC**
HSR w/ Economy and Warming

**1NC**
States CP
Federalism
Case
Solvency

**2NC**
Case
Solvency

**1NR**
States
Federalism

**2NR**
Solvency
Case
A2 Perm
Federalism

===Quarters - Westminster CZ=== 
**1AC**
HSR w/ Economy and Warming

**1NC**
Case
Solvency
Federalism
Coercion

**2NC**
Case
Solvency

**1NR**
Federalism
Coercion

**2NR**
Coercion
Case
Solvency
==UGA== 
===Round 2 - Chattahoochee IK=== 
**1AC**
Nanotech with Econ and Nanowars

**1NC**
T - Primary Purpose, Immigration, Coercion

**2NC**
T

**1NR**
Coercion

**2NR**
T

===Round 4 - Carrollton Sacred Heart TG=== 
**1AC**
HSR with Econ and Warming

**1NC**
Immigration, States, Adaptation CP, Airline Tradeoff DA

**2NC**
Adaptation and DA

**1NR**
Case

**2NR**
Adaptation and DA
===Round 5 - Chattahoochee MS=== 
**1AC**
Port Security with Terror (Nukes + Econ) and Coast Guard (Arctic War + Overfishing)

**1NC**
Security, T, Case

**2NC**
Security

**1NR**
T

**2NR**
Security