[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

HSR 1AC

Contention 1: Inherency
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
A. Federal funding is empirically key to covering HSR upfront costs - Recovery Act pledge is a small fraction of what is needed
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fleming, ’09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Director of Physical Infrastructure Issues of the Government Accountability Office (“High Speed Passenger Rail: Effectively Using Recovery Act Funds for High Speed Rail Projects” Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchang Marine Infrastructure, Safety, and Security, Committee on Commerse, Science and Transportation, U.S. Senate, June 23 2009, p. 2-3, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d09786t.pdf) // </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Once projects are deemed economically viable, project sponsors face the challenging tasks of securing the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> significant </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">up-front investment for construction costs and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">sustaining public and political support</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and stakeholder consensus. We found </span>that<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">in other countries</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (France, Japan, and Spain) </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">with high speed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> intercity passenger </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">rail systems, the central government</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> generally </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">funded the majority of the up-front costs of high speed rail lines.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">3 </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The $8 billion in Recovery Act funds for high speed rail</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(and other intercity passenger rail) lines </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">represents a significant increase in federal funds available to develop new or enhanced intercity passenger rail service. This amount, however, represents only a small fraction of the estimated costs for starting or enhancing service on the 11 federally authorized high speed rail corridors</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>For example,<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the San Francisco-Los Angeles portion of the California high speed rail corridor alone</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, which already has about $9 billion in state bonding authority,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">is estimated to cost about $33 billion dollars.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">4 Furthermore, federal funds for high speed rail in the past (as with the Recovery Act) have been derived from general revenues, not trust funds or other dedicated funding sources. This makes ongoing capital support for high speed rail projects challenging, as they compete for funding with other national priorities such as health care, national defense, and support for ailing industries. In addition, the challenge of sustaining public-sector support and stakeholder consensus is compounded by long project lead times, the diverse interests of numerous stakeholders, and the absence of an established institutional framework for coordination and decision making. </span>

Thus we defend the following plan: Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its high speed rail investment in the United States.

Contention 2: Economy
A. U.S. infrastructure is undermining our global competitiveness and risks economic collapse
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Building America’s Future, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – a bipartisan coalition of elected officials dedicated to bringing about a new era of U.S. investment in infrastructure that enhances our nation’s prosperity and quality of life. (“Falling Apart and Falling Behind”, Transportation Infrastructure Report, http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Rebuilding America’s economic foundation is one of the most important missions we face</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in the 21st century. Our parents and grandparents built America into the world’s leading economic superpower. We have a responsibility to our own children and grandchildren to strengthen—not squander —that inheritance, and to pass on to them a country whose best days are still ahead. Our citizens live in a turbulent, complicated, and competitive world. The worst recession in eighty years cost us trillions in wealth and drove millions of Americans out of their jobs and homes. Even more, it called into question their belief in our system and faith in the way forward. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Our infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">—and the good policy making that built it—</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">is a key reason America became an economic superpower</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> But many of the great decisions which put us on that trajectory are now a half-century old. In the last decade,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">our global economic competitors have led the way in planning and building the transportation networks of the 21st century. Countries around the world have</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">not only </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">started spending more than the United States does today</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, but they made those financial commitments—of both public and private dollars—on the basis of 21st-century strategies that will equip them to make commanding strides in economic growth over the next 20-25 years.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Unless we make significant changes in our course and direction, the foreign competition will pass us by, and a real opportunity to restore America’s economic strength will be lost</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The American people deserve better. Falling Apart and Falling Behind lays out the economic challenges posed by our ailing infrastructure, provides a comparative look at the smart investments being made by our international competitors, and suggests a series of recommendations for crafting new innovative transportation policies in the U.S. A Mounting Crisis This report frames the state of our infrastructure in terms of the new economic realities of the 21st-century economy and presents the challenges we currently face</span>. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The surge in global trade has realigned America’s business transport needs, complicating supply chains and increasing the need for sophisticated intermodal transportation. Our economically vital gateways and corridors now operate over capacity, imposing costs of $200 billion a year. Our passenger transport system, especially in our major metropolitan regions, is also burdened with costly congestion as passenger travel increases.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Largely run on gasoline, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">our transportation system is environmentally, politically, and economically unsustainable</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. We have the world’s worst air traffic congestion, in part because we are still using the radar-based air traffic control system developed in the 1950s.</span>

B. U.S. economy is stalling – unemployment is rising again and comes at a precarious time for the global economy
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bloomberg</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">6-1-</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">-(Christopher S. Rugaber, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, June 1, 2012, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm)//</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The U.S. economy suddenly looks a lot weaker</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> U.S.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">employers created only 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, and the unemployment rate ticked up. The dismal jobs data will fan fears that the economy is sputtering.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">It could also damage President Barack Obama's re-election prospects. And it could lead the Federal Reserve to take further steps to help the economy. The Labor Department also </span>said Friday that <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the economy created far fewer jobs in the previous two months than first thought.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">It revised those figures down to show</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">49,000 fewer jobs created. The unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">from 8.1 percent in April,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the first increase in 11 months. The Dow Jones</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">industrial</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">average fell more than 160 points in the first half hour of trading. The yield on the benchmark on the 10-year Treasury note plunged to 1.46 percent, the lowest on record</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. It suggested that investors are flocking to the safety of U.S. government bonds. The price of gold, which was trading at about $1,550 an ounce before the report, shot up $30. Investors have seen gold as a safe place to put their money during turbulent economic times. Josh Feinman, global chief economist with DB Advisors, said Friday's report raises the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will do more -- perhaps start another round of bond purchases to further lower long-term interest rates. Still, he noted that the rate on 10-year Treasury notes is already at a record low 1.46 percent. "How much lower can long-term rates go?" Feinman said. The economy is averaging just 73,000 jobs a month over the past two months -- roughly a third of 226,000 jobs created per month in the January-March quarter.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Slower growth in the United States comes at a perilous time for the global economy</span>.

C. US economic competitiveness prevents multiple scenarios for global nuclear conflicts

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Friedberg & Schoenfeld 8</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America's geostrategic dominance likely to diminish? If so, what would that mean? </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">One immediate implication of the crisis that began on Wall Street and spread across the world is that the primary instruments of U.S. foreign policy will be crimped.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The next president will face an entirely new and adverse fiscal position. Estimates of this year's federal budget deficit already show that it has jumped $237 billion from last year, to $407 billion. With families and businesses hurting, there will be calls for various and expensive domestic relief programs. In the face of this onrushing river of red ink, both Barack Obama and John McCain have been reluctant to lay out what portions of their programmatic wish list they might defer or delete. Only Joe Biden has suggested a possible reduction -- foreign aid. This would be one of the few popular cuts, but in budgetary terms it is a mere grain of sand. Still, Sen. Biden's comment hints at where</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we may be headed: toward a major reduction in America's world role, and perhaps even a new era of financially-induced isolationism</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Pressures to cut defense spending, and to dodge the cost of waging two wars, already intense before this crisis, are likely to mount. Despite the success of the surge, the war in Iraq remains deeply unpopular. Precipitous withdrawal -- attractive to a sizable swath of the electorate before the financial implosion -- might well become even more popular with annual war bills running in the hundreds of billions</span>. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Protectionist sentiments are sure to grow stronger as jobs disappear in the coming slowdown.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Even before our current woes, calls to save jobs by restricting imports had begun to gather support among many Democrats and some Republicans. In a prolonged recession, gale-force winds of protectionism will blow. Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> smartly</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> last resort for</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> nearly </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to a halt, the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> peaceful </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the remorseless</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">aftershocks of the financial crisis will</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> almost certainly </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">rock our principal strategic competitors</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> even </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">harder than they will rock us</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures. As for our democratic friends, the present crisis comes when many European nations are struggling to deal with decades of anemic growth, sclerotic governance and an impending demographic crisis. Despite its past dynamism, Japan faces similar challenges. India is still in the early stages of its emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power. What does this all mean?</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">There is no substitute for America on the world stage. The choice we have</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> before us </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">is between the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> potentially </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">disastrous effects of disengagement and the stiff price tag of continued American leadership</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Are we up for the task? The American economy has historically demonstrated remarkable resilience. Our market-oriented ideology, entrepreneurial culture, flexible institutions and favorable demographic profile should serve us well in whatever trials lie ahead. The American people, too, have shown reserves of resolve when properly led. But experience after the Cold War era -- poorly articulated and executed policies, divisive domestic debates and rising anti-Americanism in at least some parts of the world -- appear to have left these reserves diminished. A recent survey by the Chicago Council on World Affairs found that 36% of respondents agreed that the U.S. should "stay out of world affairs," the highest number recorded since this question was first asked in 1947. The economic crisis could be the straw that breaks the camel's back.</span>
D. Building HSR is essential to our future competition – other countries are beating us to the punch
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yaro, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – president of the Regional Plan Association, a policy, research and advocacy group, and Professor of Practice in City and Regional Planning at the University of Pennsylvania (Robert D. “An Investment We Have to Make,” New York Times, October 14 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2010/10/13/will-we-ever-have-high-speed-trains/an-investment-we-have-to-make) // </span>

For these reasons<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Japan, China, Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Europe</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> -- and now </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Brazil, South Africa, Morocco, India and Vietnam </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">-- already </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">have or are building high-speed rail. Unless we build similar systems here, we will find ourselves at a growing competitive disadvantage caused by increasing congestion and inefficiency in moving people and goods</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">At an estimated $500 billion,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">a national high-speed rail system</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> won't come cheap. But it </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">will help enable a major expansion in the U.S. gross domestic product by mid-century, in much the same way the Interstate highways did</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the 20th century. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Once completed with forms of public financing, these systems can be operated and maintained by the private sector and operated at a profit. We can't afford not to build a national high-speed system</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. It's not the only infrastructure investment needed to secure our economic futures. But </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">it's one that will be essential to our future mobility and competitiveness.</span>
E. Investment in HSR will jumpstart the economy and provides the clearest and fastest way to long-term economic growth – studies prove
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Williams 11</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mantil is a Writer and researcher for the APTA, or American Public Transportation Association. The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) is a nonprofit international association of 1,500 public and private member organizations, engaged in the areas of bus, paratransit, light rail, commuter rail, subways, waterborne services, and intercity and high-speed passenger rail “Federal Investment in High-Speed Rail Could Spur 1.3 Million Jobs ” http://www.apta.com/mediacenter/pressreleases/2011/Pages/110406_HSR_Business.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The American Public Transportation Association</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">(APTA) released a report detailing the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> enormous </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">impact high-speed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and intercity passenger</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">rail projects will have in driving job development, while also rebuilding America’s manufacturing sector and generating billions of dollars in business sales.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> This report focuses on key issues critical to private investors as they consider investments or future expansion into businesses serving the growing passenger rail markets. The report, “The Case for Business Investment in High-Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail” reinforces the point that</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">investments in high-speed</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and intercity</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">rail will have many direct and indirect benefits</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Nationally, due to proposed federal investment of high-speed rail over a six-year period,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">investment can result in supporting and creating more than 1.3 million jobs. This federal investment will be the catalyst for attracting state, local and private capital which will result in the support and creation of even more jobs</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">According to this new report,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">investments in building a 21st century rail system will not only lead to a large increase in construction jobs, but to the sustainable, long-term growth of new manufacturing and service jobs across the country</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> “It is evident that</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">investing in high-speed and intercity rail projects presents one of the clearest and fastest ways to create green, American jobs and spur long-term economic growth,” said APTA President William Millar</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. “Investing in high-speed rail is essential for America as we work to build a sustainable, modern transportation system that meets the environmental and energy challenges of the future.” APTA noted </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">for each $1 billion invested in high-speed rail projects, the analysis predicts the support and creation of 24,000 jobs</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In addition to the thousands of new construction jobs,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">investments in high-speed rail will jumpstart the U.S. economy. The Economic Development Research Group for the U.S. Conference of Mayors studied the business impact of high-speed rail investment in different urban regions</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. For example, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">in Los Angeles, CA, high-speed rail investment generates $7.6 billion in business sales and $6.1 billion in Chicago, IL. “Federal high-speed rail investment is a strong driver in getting private companies to invest,” said Kevin McFall, Senior Vice President at Stacy and Witbeck Inc., a leading public transit construction firm. “This program can be a shot in the arm for the manufacturing industry. These high-speed rail projects will give us the opportunity to put people to work building the rail infrastructure this country desperately needs</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.” “U.S. businesses have been known for their cutting edge technologies and innovations, said Jeffrey Wharton, President of IMPulse NC. “We need to put this expertise to work, providing business and employment opportunities while catching up with the rest of the world in high-speed rail and its associated benefits.” “We are excited about the prospect of putting Americans to work building the rail tracks and equipment that will keep America’s economic recovery moving forward,” said Charles Wochele, Vice President for Industry and Government Relations at Alstom Transport. “We look forward to partnering with the federal and state governments to ensure these projects get off the ground.”</span>

F. HSR has significant economic benefits and a direct correlation with GDP – first thorough statistical study proves
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ahlfeldt 12</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">( Gabriel M Ahlfeldt, the Department of Geography and Environment at LSE, “New research shows that high-speed rail does deliver economic growth”, The London School of Economics and Political Science, http://www2.lse.ac.uk/newsAndMedia/news/archives/2010/09/highspeedrail.aspx, 13 Sep 2010,) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">High-speed rail lines bring clear and significant economic benefits to the communities they serve, the first thorough statistical study of the subject has discovered. Economists discovered that towns connected to a new high-speed line saw their GDP rise by at least 2.7 per cent compared to neighbours not on the route. Their study also found that increased market access through high-speed rail has a direct correlation with a rise in GDP – for each one per cent increase in market access, there is a 0.25 per cent rise in GDP. The findings, from the London School of Economics and Political Science and the University of Hamburg, may be used to support arguments for high-speed networks which are already being planned in the UK, US and across the world. Until now, no one has demonstrated that high-speed rail brings clear economic gains along its routes.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Authors Gabriel Ahlfeld and Arne Feddersen presented their findings at the conference of the German Economic Association. The paper, From Periphery to Core: economic adjustments to high-speed rail, also points to advantages in employment and GDP per capita for towns on the high-speed network. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Their research focused on the line between Cologne and Frankfurt</span>,<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> which opened in 2002 and runs trains at almost 185mph (300 kmh). The authors looked at the prosperity and growth of two towns with stations on the new line – Limburg and Montabaur – and compared them with more than 3,000 other municipalities in the surrounding regions. The new line brought Limburg and Montabaur within a 40-minute journey of both Cologne and Frankfurt.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Over a four-year period, the researchers found that both towns and the area immediately around them saw their economies grow by at least 2.7 per cent more than their unconnected neighbours. This effect, say the authors, is entirely attributable to the improved access to markets for Limburg and Montabaur and not to any external factors or inherent growth. They chose the two towns for the study because both were included on the high-speed route due to lobbying by regional government and not because their economies were powerful or expanding</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Dr Ahlfeldt, from the Department of Geography and Environment at LSE, said: 'One of the problems with identifying the impact of high-speed rail has been that lines tend to get built first between areas with strong and growing economies so that it's difficult for economists to be sure which effects are attributable to the new rail line and which to existing factors. But </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">because there was no economic rationale for building the line to Limburg and Montabaur, they provided the perfect "laboratory" conditions for us to measure the effect of high-speed trains. 'It is quite clear that the line itself brought significant and lasting benefits in access to markets, growth, employment and individual prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. One of our key findings is a positive market access elasticity, which means that improvements in accessibility to other towns, cities and regions, will be reflected in economic growth. We believe this research develops a new framework for predicting the economic effects of large-scale infrastructure projects and will help governments to define future spending priorities.'</span>

Contention 3: Warming
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A. Warming is real, anthropogenic, and existential – vast international scientific evidence accumulates weekly</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deibel 7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">there is one major existential threat</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">to American security (as well as prosperity)</span> of a nonviolent nature,<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> which, though far in the future, demands urgent action.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">It is</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the threat of</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">global warming</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Scientists worldwide have been observing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the gathering of</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> this threat for three decades now</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">from 1993 to 2003</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">shows: an international panel predicts</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">“brutal </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">droughts, floods</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and violent</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">storms</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming;</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">As the newspaper stories quoted above show,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">more violent </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">storms</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">spread of</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">threatened</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">inundation of low-lying countries</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">“humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">support system. At worst,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">everything will collapse</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Global warming is the</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">post-Cold War era’s</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">equivalent of nuclear winter</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">at least as serious</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">and considerably better supported scientifically.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Over the long run</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>

B. Warming is likely to be rapid, and even in the best-case scenario the effects of will be catastrophic without severe reductions in emission
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mazo 10</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA, Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2.5-4.~C above pre-industrial levels, depending on the scenario</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Even in the best-case scenario, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the low end of the likely range is 1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.go</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">C, and in the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> worst </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">'business as usual' projections, which actual emissions have been matching, the range of likely warming runs from 3.1--7.1°C. Even keeping emissions at constant 2000 levels (which have already been exceeded), global temperature would still be expected to reach 1.2°C</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (O'9""1.5°C)</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century." Without early and severe reductions in emissions, the effects of climate change in the second half of the twenty-first century are likely to be catastrophic</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> for the stability and security of countries in the developing world - not to mention the associated human tragedy. Climate change could even undermine the strength and stability of emerging and advanced economies, beyond the knock-on effects on security of widespread state failure and collapse in developing countries.' And although they have been condemned as melodramatic and alarmist, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">many informed observers believe that unmitigated climate change beyond the end of the century could pose an existential threat to civilisation</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">." What is certain is that there is no precedent in human experience for such rapid change or such climatic conditions, and even in the best case adaptation to these extremes would mean profound social, cultural and political changes.</span>

C. Fast warming causes extinction – adaptation would be impossible
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tickell 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Oliver Tickell is an environmental Researcher. He is the founder of the Kyoto2 climate initiative, a researcher of the Oxford Climate Associates and specialized in international climate policy. Published August 11th, 2008 (http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson [PhD in Chemistry</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Award for Scientific Freedom and Responsibility from the American Association for the Advacement of Science]</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">told the Guardian last week</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd and dangerous. Global warming on this scale would be a catastrophe that would mean</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, in the immortal words that Chief Seattle probably never spoke, "the end of living and the beginning of survival" for humankind. Or perhaps </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the beginning of our extinction. The collapse of the polar ice caps would become inevitable, bringing</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">long-term </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">sea level rises of 70-80 metres. All the world's coastal plains would be lost, complete with ports, cities</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, transport and industrial </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">infrastructure, and</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">much of the world's most productive</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">farmland</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The world's geography would be transformed much as it was at the end of the last ice age, when sea levels rose by about 120 metres to create the Channel, the North Sea and Cardigan Bay out of dry land.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Weather would become extreme and unpredictable, with more frequent and severe droughts, floods and hurricanes. The Earth's carrying capacity would be hugely reduced. Billions would</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> undoubtedly</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">die. Watson's call was supported by</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the government's former chief scientific adviser, Sir David</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">King [Director of the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Smith</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">School of</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Enterprise and the</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Environment at</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the University of</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Oxford], who warned that "if we get to a four-degree rise</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">it is quite possible that</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we would</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">begin to </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">see a runaway increase</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">". This is a remarkable understatement. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The climate system is already experiencing significant feedbacks</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, notably the summer melting of the Arctic sea ice. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The more the ice melts, the more sunshine is absorbed by the sea, and the more the Arctic warms</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. And</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">as the Arctic warms, the release of billions of tonnes of methane</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – a greenhouse gas 70 times stronger than carbon dioxide over 20 years – </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">captured under melting permafrost is already under way. To see how far this process could go, look</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">55.5m years </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to the Palaeocene</span>-<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Eocene Thermal</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Maximum, when a global temperature increase of 6C coincided with the release of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> about</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">5,000 gigatonnes of carbon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> into the atmosphere, both as CO2 and as methane from bogs and seabed sediments. Lush </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">subtropical forests grew in polar regions, and sea levels rose to 100m higher than today</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. It appears that an initial warming pulse triggered other warming processes.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.</span>
D. Simply completing all the proposed HSR projects would result in substantial GHG reduction
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">CCAP 6</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Center for Clean Air Policy, (Center for Green air Policy, “ High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S”, Article itself is a publication, January 2006, http://www.cnt.org/repository/HighSpeedRailEmissions.pdf)//</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">To estimate high speed rail’s net emissions impact, we calculated the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> carbon dioxide </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">(CO2) emissions saved from passengers switching to high speed rail from other modes</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (air, conventional rail, automobile and bus) </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">and subtracted the estimated emissions generated by high speed rail.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Our calculations were based on passenger projections and diversion rates for each corridor and typical emissions rates for each mode of travel, including several different high speed rail technologies.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Current projections show that passengers would take 112 million trips on high speed rail in the U.S. in 2025, traveling more than 25 billion passenger miles. This would result in 29 million fewer automobile trips and nearly 500,000 fewer flights. We calculated a total emissions savings of 6 billion pounds of CO2 per year</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (2.7 MMTCO2) </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">if all proposed high speed rail systems studied for this project are built</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Savings from cancelled automobile and airplane trips are the primary sources of the emissions savings; together these two modes make up 80 percent of the estimated emissions savings from all modes.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Our modeling shows that high speed rail, if built as planned, will generate substantial GHG savings in all regions</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The total emissions savings vary greatly by corridor, however, as do the source of those savings. In some regions, such as the Midwest, the impact on air travel is likely to be modest; our analysis shows just a 7 percent decrease in flights from today’s levels. In California, on the other hand, 19 million passengers are projected to switch from air—a volume that would result in 114 percent of today’s 192 million annual direct flights in the corridor being cancelled. Such ridership levels may be an overestimate, or may be possible if projected growth in air travel and indirect flights, including those from outside the corridor are included. To draw so many air passengers to rail will certainly require that high speed rail ticket prices be competitive with air and that service be as convenient and time-efficient. It is worth further study to see if such high levels of mode shifting are likely. In some respects, the California system, as it is currently planned, represents what will be the second generation of high speed rail in many of the other corridors. While areas like the Pacific Northwest may increase ridership sooner with an incremental approach to high speed rail that uses existing rail routes, the success of a new high speed rail system like California’s could prove the value of faster trains with higher upfront capital costs.</span>
E. HSR removes 6 billion pounds of CO2 per year and helps meet the 2020 emissions standards even at only partial capacity
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">APTA 12</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– American Public Transportation Association, non-profit organization which serves as an advocate for the advancement of public transportation programs and initiatives in the United States; educated the public about the benefits of public transportation through organized bus, light rail, rapid transit and other programs; lobbies the U.S. Congress and local government bodies in favor of public transportation improvements and new developments. (January, An Inventory of the Criticisms ofHigh-Speed Rail, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/HSR-Defense.pdf) //</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The issue of the carbon footprint is a collateral benefit. Emissions from trains, be they conventional or high-speed, are about two thirds that of airplanes, and one third less that automobiles. And the higher the passenger load, the greater the greenhouse benefit. Overall, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">environmental analysts estimate that between 12 billion and 6 billion pounds of CO2 can be eliminated by diverting passengers from air and auto travel in passenger rail corridors ranging from 100 to 600 miles in length.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Regarding the “green nature” of high-speed rail, the U.S. Department of Transportation believes they have sufficient data to demonstrate that the administration’s passenger rail improvement initiative promotes economic expansion (including new manufacturing jobs), creates new choices for travelers in addition to flying or driving, reduces national dependence on oil, and fosters urban and rural community development. Further, the Department contends that today’s intercity passenger rail service consumes one-third less energy per passenger-mile than cars, and estimates that if high-speed rail lines are ultimately built on all federally-designated corridors, it could result in an annual reduction of 6 billion pounds of CO2 . For its part, Amtrak forecasts, based on EPA and Department of Energy evaluation factors, that travel-related emissions and energy consumption savings in the Northeast Corridor alone would be approximately $400 million over the initial 30 years of its Northeast Corridor passenger rail improvement program. The California High-speed Rail Authority in 2008 issued a draft environmental impact review/ environmental impact study (EIR/EIS) that among other impacts addressed air pollution issues including greenhouse gasses. The draft EIR/EIS noted that it only calculated CO2 for alignment alternatives that reflected emissions from electrical power stations, planes, and onroad vehicles miles traveled (VMT). The highway component was based on potential daily VMT reductions of 32.691 million miles. The air travel component was based on potential reductions of 52,876 daily trips. Additionally,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the Climate Change Scoping Plan produced by the California Air Resources Board</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(CARB) (pursuant to AB 32) in 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">includes the HST system as one of the state’s fundamental strategies in meeting the 2020 emissions reduction goals. By 2020, the HST system is expected to have just started operations between San Francisco and Anaheim and is estimated to be only at 26% of the full ridership levels</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">— resulting in a reduction of one million metric tons of CO2 equivalent.</span>

F. US expansion of its clean energy sector spills over globally 
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kammen</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley,</span> **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th, http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In addition to supporting domestic job creation, clean energy is an important and fastest growing international sector, and one where overseas policy can be used to support poor developing regions – such as Africa (Jacobsen and Kammen, 2007) and Central America – as well as regaining market share in solar, fuel cell and wind technologies, where European nations and Japan have invested heavily and are reaping the benefits of month to year backlogs in clean energy orders. Some of those orders are for U. S. installations, but many more could be if we choose to make clean and green energy a national priority for both domestic installation and overseas export. Technology exports have impacts well beyond domestic job creation. In fact, if properly managed</span>, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the development of a thriving ‘cleantech’ sector can address</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">a vital global issues, namely </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the emissions trajectories of major developing nations. China and India are often singled out</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">for attention as major, emerging global emitters.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">China</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in fact,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">will become the world’s largest greenhouse emitter in the near future</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, if it has not already.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">This fact, is often used</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> –</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">mistakenly</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in my view –</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to argue against unilateral climate protection efforts by</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">nations such as</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the United States. This view is shortsighted</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in two vital respects. First, China is demonstrably already suffering from the impacts of fossil fuel use. Crop yields in many parts of China are significantly lower than they would be without the significant sulfur and particulate burden that results from domestic coal combustion. (In fact, coal combustions emissions from China have significant air quality impacts on Japan, and can be measured in the U. S. as well.) Crop losses of over 20% have been reported in part of China, with the decrease unambiguously linked to air pollution. China also experiences significant human health impacts from this pollution burden as well. Second, China has committed, on paper, to a ‘circular economy’ where waste is reduced and overall productivity is enhanced.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">If the United States were to become a major exporter</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, or even a partner, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">in</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the production of</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">low-emissions technologies</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– from truly carbon-capture coal-fired power plants, to increased numbers of solar, wind, and biofuel technologies –</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">China would be an eager trading partner</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, so that they could install increasing numbers of low-emissions technologies.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">This would directly help the Chinese economy and their environmental</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and public health</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">situation</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. On both of these grounds,</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">U. S. domestic expansion of the clean energy sector will</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> likely</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">positively impact the ability and the actions of</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">a number of</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">emerging economies to ‘go green’.</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]