[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==HSR 1AC== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The United States federal government should increase its investment in a national network of high-speed passenger rail systems in the United States.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention One: Knowledge Economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The recession is far from over-unemployment levels and economic activity remain completely inadequate</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Stiglitz ‘10(Joseph, New Perspectives Quarterly, “Time for a Second Stimulus”, pg. 61, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-5842.2010.01164.x/pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, Stiglitz is an economist and a professor at Columbia University. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for economics in 2001. He was chief economist of the World Bank and chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">ON THE PROSPECTS OF ECONOMIC RECOVERY IN THE UNITED STATES -We’ve pulled back from the precipice, but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">the current situation cannot be described as a strong recovery</span><span style="font-family: Times;">…, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">growth must be at least 3 percent a year</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. I don’t see growth in 2010 or 2011 being above that level. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Focus on fiscal and monetary policies have gotten the U.S. nowhere towards recovery-The government must foster the conditions necessary for a thriving knowledge economy</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Florida ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">A year or so later, with midterm elections looming and an electorate that is as fearful and angry as any in memory, ... Steve Jobs didn’t invent the PC; he saw its components at work at PARC, realized their potential, and put the pieces together.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Major public investments in infrastructure are the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Times;">key internal link </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Times;">to recovery</span>─<span style="font-family: Times;"> targeted projects yield private investment and increased levels of economic activity. The US won’t be able to sustain debt without these initiatives. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">STIGLITZ 12 University Professor at Columbia University, and a Nobel laureate in Economics</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall between actual and potential unemployment is huge … public investments are likely to increase the returns to private investments; and (c) rational consumers/ taxpayers may recognize that future tax liabilities will decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Only networks of megaregions sustain the transition to a knowledge economy</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Florida ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Instead of further encouraging the growth of an auto-housing-suburban complex, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">the government should promote</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> These new geographic entities are larger than the sum of their parts; they not only produce but consume, spurring further demand.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">High-speed rail networks are critical to development of these megaregions-This significantly contributes to economic growth</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Florida ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Infrastructure is key to powering spatial fixes. The railroads and streetcar, cable car, and subway systems speeded the movement of people, goods, and ideas in the late 19th century; …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> it will allow them to function as truly integrated economic units</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">High speed rail represents the ideal infrastructure project-investment is key to long-term economic recovery</span>─<span style="font-family: Times;">We have 6 internal links. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Todorvich et al. ‘11Petra Todorovich, Director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane “High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers.” [https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">High-speed rail’s ability to promote economic growth is grounded in its capacity to increase access to markets and exert positive effects on the spatial distribution of economic activity (Redding and Sturm 2008). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">…suppliers, employees, and consumers that, over time, foster spatial concentration within regions </span><span style="font-family: Times;">(Ahlfeldt and Feddersen 2010). This interactive process creates net economic gains in addition to the other economic beneﬁts described here.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Action now is critical-Rising population levels makes current transportation infrastructure no longer sustainable. The plan is key to maintain US economic leadership</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Alexander ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> Christopher Alexander, December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” chp.4, [</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.design.upenn.edu/hsr2011/planningforhsr.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">HSR has the capacity to produce economic growth on a national scale by improving connectivity and accessibility throughout an entire country and internationally. … can sustain the type of economic growth that will allow the U.S. to remain the world’s economic leader.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">No other project will generate enough growth in the long-term. Failure to invest ensures fast collapse of US competitiveness</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Natale ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Patrick J. Natale, December 14th, 2010, executive director, American Society of Civil Engineers, “HSR: We can’t afford to wait,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2010/12/highspeed-rail-political-footb.php#1820909|http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2010/12/highspeed-rail-political-footb.php#1820909]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Failing to invest in high-speed rail </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">(HSR) may win</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> a few </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">political points today</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">…but all they’re doing is making our future worse.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Collapse causes lash-out. The U.S. will go down fighting</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Goldstein ‘7(Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">…</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">credible US economic leadership is key to maintaining capitalism, interdependence, and every level of global cooperation-The alternative is competitive mercantilism and a complete collapse of multilateralism</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Posen ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Adam-Deputy Director & Senior Fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “Economic Leadership, Beyond the Crisis.” Available Online @</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"><http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation’s military might, have been based largely on American relative economic size and success. … changeor managing migration and demographic shifts. If the US is to rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">The impact is great power war, terrorism, and a collapse of the global economy</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Panzner ‘8,faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will … interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention Two: Energy Efficiency </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Scenario 1- Oil </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Demand for oil will double over the next 20 years and current sources remain vulnerable to shocks–The plan is the only comprehensive solution. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Erin Kent</span><span style="font-family: Times;">Magee, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">March 17th, 2012</span><span style="font-family: Times;">,</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> 2012 presidential candidate, previous educational services officer @ the DoD, previous royal ambassador to Japan, HRP, Western Australia “High Speed Rail: The Time is Now,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tbqy.com/?p=2236]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The American </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">economy is extremely vulnerable to oil price hikes, …prosperity and economic growth. H</span><span style="font-family: Times;">igh-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">S</span><span style="font-family: Times;">peed </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">R</span><span style="font-family: Times;">ail </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">will mean</span><span style="font-family: Times;">: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">Less Money Spent on Gasoline</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, More Business & Real Jobs for Real People </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The plan solves oil dependence quickly-Alternative energies won’t come fast enough and conflicts are inevitable if action isn’t taken in the short-term</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Perl ‘11.Dr. Anthony Perl is Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, where he directs the Urban Studies Program. His latest book, co-authored with Richard Gilbert, is "Transport Revolutions: Moving People and Freight Without Oil." November 19, 2011 “How green is high-speed rail?” [http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Since </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">electricity</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> is an energy carrier, it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">can be generated from a mix of … offered by high-speed rail to decrease transportation's oil consumption sooner, rather than later.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Continued dependence and oil shocks will result in great power conflicts and rapid warming. This independently makes US-Sino war inevitable</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">King 8 [Neil King, Jr. “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series. July 2008. http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Many commentators in the United States and abroad have …especially so long as the United States continues to remain outside the international Law of the Sea Treaty. As the ices there recede, the risk increases that a scramble for assets in the Artic could turn nasty. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Extinction</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Strait Times</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, June 25, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">2000</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, p. Lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. … While the prospect of anuclear Armageddon over Taiwanmight seem inconceivable, itcannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. ¶ </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention Three: Solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Committed federal funding is key to jumpstart high-speed rail projects-it injects confidence into the market for its developement</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Todorvich et al. ‘11Petra Todorovich, Director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane “High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers.” [https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Like other modes of transportation and public goods, high-speed rail generally does not pay for itself through ticket fares and other operating revenues. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">… high-speed rail projects and equipment manufacturers the conﬁdence they require to invest in the industry. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">No other form of funding solves-Federal involvement is critical for coordination and sustaining projects</span>─
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Sweet ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Matthias N. Sweet, Ph.D. candidate at the University of Pennsylvania City and Regional Planning “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States.” Chapter 13: Financing High-speed Rail [</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.design.upenn.edu/hsr2011/planningforhsr.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Capital costs for HSR are high and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">will</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> likely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">need to be primarily born at the federal level</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> the decisions of the future, but immediate decisions about investing in projects requiring short-term or long-term support. </span>



<span style="font-family: Times;">High-speed rail is competitive, efficient, and feasible in the short term. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Kobzantsev ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Zlata Kobzantsev, University of Pennsylvania, Cornell University December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” Chapter 1: Metropolitan Congestion as a Factor for Successful Highspeed Rail. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">In the spectrum of transit modes, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">HSR fills a gap between short-distance flights and longdistance surface transit trips</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. The high speeds of HSR, at 125 miles per hour or higher …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">Locating HSR in city centers also reduces door-to-door trip time, which is an important factor in the modal choice of passengers</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.26</span>

==Connolly 1AC== 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac connolly - media</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">part one: the daily show</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An interesting thing occurred on October 6th, where in a debate with Bill O’Reilly, Jon Stewart said</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Honestly, I think we’ve lost … is fundamentally undermining it, I think that's bullshit. [[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The reality of transportation inequality - corporations profit from private transportation - an exclusivity of a good that exacerbates social inequality and racial isolation. We need a more efficient, accountable form of government when it comes to transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard et al 7 - Robert D. Bullard is a Ware professor of sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. His most recent book is The Black Metropolis in the Twenty-First Century: Race, Power, and Politics of Place (2007). Glenn S. Johnson is a research associate in the Environmental Justice Resource Center and an associate professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice at the same university. He has coedited a number of books, including Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity (2004). Angel O. Torres is a geographic information system training specialist with the Environmental Justice Resource Center. He also has coedited several publications, including Sprawl City: Race, Politics, and Planning in Atlanta (2000) and Highway Robbery (Dismantling Transportation Apartheid in the United States Before and After Disasters Strike, Vol. 34 No. 3 By 207)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation is the second largest … aid in lifting families out of poverty.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation was one of the crucial sites for radical change in America—but inequality continues—transportation still lacks civility and rights when it comes to access—and as such we need a national strategy for equity in the context of transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard, 9 – Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University (Robert, Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity, edited with Glenn Johnson and Angel Torres, South End Press, Janurary 1, 2009, accessed googlebooks)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">People of color communities …smart growth debate. If they do not do it, it is unlikely to get done.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American dream, the promise of a big red Buick, 2.5 kids, and a low interest rate home with a white picket fence is an illusion built on a political economy of exclusive goods. This keeping up with the joneses is unsustainable - an exclusive economy creates a discourse of blaming and scapegoats - assumptions about the welfare queen and the forty seven percent who just want to collect a government check kilsl pluralism. But there is a way out—this economics of greed and exclusivity can be reversed through state incentives to public goods like transportation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 95 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American political economy …necessarily fosters social uniformity.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">83-84</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Therefore after reflexive analysis and deliberation, Bobby and I offer the following plan:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should increase its transportation infrastructure investment in New Starts inclusive transit.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2012 budget killed new starts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell, 12 – reporter invested in the development of transportation infrastructure (Tazra, Senate Transportation Budget Eliminates New Starts Program, Limiting Hard-Working North Carolinians’ Mobility Choices, http://pulse.ncpolicywatch.org/2012/06/11/senate-transportation-budget-eliminates-new-starts-program-limiting-hard-working-north-carolinians-mobility-choices/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Senate Transportation Budget … step further and also appropriate $32.5 million on a non-recurring basis.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Starts transit is key – improvements are critical to building inclusive transit systems and rail projects – cost effective and successful rail</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TI 12 – ti.org – non profit organization designed for transportation knowledge (The future of New Starts, http://ti.org/antiplanner/?p=6207)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Last week, the House …, or HOT lanes, other than the existing system or no-build.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan action is crucial to reversing course in the context of the political suffering caused by the lack of access to public transportation in the status quo —through a politics of becoming - challenges the most intense suffering–political suffering–suffering that is caused and continued by the constructed policies of sovereignty.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 99 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Why I am Not a Secularist 51-52]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The most difficult …in a reflective and sensitive way.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">part two: no spin zone</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Another amazing thing happened in that air-conditioned auditorium, Bill O’Reilly said something quite unforgettable:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The problem with … and its not getting any better either</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I wish it was that easy, Bill, that the causes of structural inequality could just be blamed on the evil capitalists—with their tentacle like arms and general desire to do no good. The understanding of emergent causality takes protoagency and preadaptive systems in account - it isn’t as simple as linear cause and effect, the forces at work are in a state of disequlibrium—polyvalent factors resonate together to contribute to a system of unsustainable economics.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Campbell et al 2k7[David Campbell: Int’l boundaries Research, Geography Department, Durham U: with Stuart Elden and Stephen Graham Luiza Bialasiewisz: Department of Geography at Royal Holloway U of London, and Alex Jeffrey from the School of Geography at the U of Newcastle, “Performing security: The imaginative geographies of current US strategy” pg on bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Methodologically this approach requires an … spawn new persona to replace them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">408</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What’s interesting in O’Reilly’s analysis is his inability to include his own bellicose and violent rhetoric - this blame shifting from the conservative right to capitalism and back to the media is all part of a process of pointing the finger so that neoliberal capitalists, media think tanks, and the conservative right remain unchallenged and our current political divide continues with disastrous consequences.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 2k8 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Capitalism and Christianity, American Style, page numbers are at the bottom of the card.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An abstract will to dismiss other … is now embraced. Hence George Bush on Christianity.9</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And Exclusive goods decrease the value of a good over time, inclusive goods that change public infrastructure create a positive political spiral and spillover into other areas of political suffering—our affirmative is important for the possibility for dynamic change in society.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Howarth 10 – Political Theory at the Department of Government of the University of Essex (David, this essay is part of a collection of papers on William E. Connolly’s Capitalism and Christianity, American Style published in Political Theology 12.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly’s initial proposal to tackle these social and political … other words, these forms seek to make use of the conditions of pluralism to forge and enact ‘new, positive identities’ out of ‘old differences, injuries and energies’ (Connolly 1995, xiv).</span>


=Negative= 
==Baudrillard 1NC== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]