[[toc]]
=Round 1 Aff vs. Bronx Science= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I remember gripping my Pokémon sheets lying lifeless on my bed listening to police and ambulance sirens in the distance from the comfort of my dimly lit room. The window I was gazing out of was suffocated by the sunset exploding over my suburban wonderland. I used to just gaze into the stars, sitting, waiting, and wishing for something new to come. Because the same-old, same-old was getting old, and I needed someplace else to explore in my life.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So I began an exploration, a journey out of my familiar suburban West-Omaha home and into the unknown. I began to spend nights downtown, in the Old Market, an unfamiliar world with a cool, hip atmosphere. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This marked a new exploration and development of myself beyond my comfort zone.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I began to toy around with my new contraptions, with excitement, with the abstract.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So I hit the comic book stores, ice cream parlors and toys shops, to redefine myself.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">After getting filled up with cute delights, I would hit the sidewalks illuminated by retro moons, blues musicians and wayward travelers looking for somewhere to go. I would listen to the street performers and individuals converse and jam, nodding along politely, and then continuing on to the next corner where I would find a similar explosion of a new world. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In the park nearby, was a man sprawled across a pretty black bench. He was wearing ragged clothes and beside him was a tattered leather suitcase and an American flag he used to cover himself up when it got cold. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">He asked me for a few dollars that he and I both knew I could part with, but I refused to give him some. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Nobody helped me, why should I help him.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I too was excluded from the rest of the world. Never included in schoolyard games, standing awkwardly to the side, eager to join in, but when I opened my mouth there weren’t any words to be found. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I, like many of us, was waiting. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Waiting for someone to act, But when no one would engage me I knew I had to engage them. So one day I took the initiate and asked if I could play soccer, the head person said: “No thanks ginger.” Of course they didn’t want their soccer ball to be tainted or anything. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It was this event and many more that played like a broken record every time I was confronted with experiences like this, and when I came across it this night under the infamous crisp bright lights of downtown Omaha my motto was the same:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Everyone's got their cross to bear. We've all got bootstraps that we can pull ourselves up with.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">He looked at me with his dark, broken eyes, said "thanks anyways," and went back to sitting, waiting, wishing for the next day to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I walked past a streetlight with a similar looking man with a similar looking story. I similarly refused but this man wasn't about to take no for an answer. He looked at me with explosions in his eyes and asked why I couldn't spare a few dollars for him to eat when I had decent clothes, a backpack of comics and toys, and a melting vanilla ice cream cone. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I told him how I felt on the subject, told him that we all had bootstraps that we could pull ourselves up from, we all had a place in the world, we just have to go out there and find it. I'll never forget his response: "Not everyone has boots, and the world just ain't willing to let me be a part of it." </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">He was left for dead underneath the exploding moonlight and white picket fences, indie gravel roads, and fancy streetlights. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">There were plenty of fucks to give, but sadly none could be found.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It was at this moment I recognized how caught up in my own troubles I had become, turning a blind eye to the rest of the world, looking upwards to hipster moons, candy, and playthings. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was privilege. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was a man watching the news who cared more about the weather than the child who died the night before.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was George Bush flying over Katrina cheesing at the camera.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was Manifest Destiny.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A rat done bit my sister Nell, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">with Whitey on the moon.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Her face and arms began to swell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">and Whitey's on the moon</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I can't pay no doctor bill</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> but Whitey's on the moon</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Ten years from now I'll be payin' still. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> while Whitey's on the moon</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Was all that money I made las' year  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">for Whitey on the moon?</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> How come there ain't no money here? </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Hmm! Whitey's on the moon…</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The man jus' upped my rent las' night. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">'cause Whitey's on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">No hot water, no toilets, no lights. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">but Whitey's on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I wonder why he's uppi' me? </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> 'cause Whitey's on the moon?</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> with Whitey on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Taxes takin' my whole damn check, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> The price of food is goin' up, </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A rat done bit my sister Nell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">with Whitey on the moon </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Her face an' arm began to swell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">but Whitey's on the moon...</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">After walking endlessly through the world of poverty, rat bites and a system that turned its back on him, 1960's bluesologist Gil Scott Heron became convinced that the system he was told he could always rely on was more willing to focus on “more important matters” rather than acknowledge those who live within the cracks of such systems.'</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I was the same -willing to turn a blind eye, willing to accept violence as being inevitable, as being a part of the status-quo. This is the logic of invisibility. Of positing suffering and violence as unimportant or irrelevant as a result of our own privilege.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The resolution is a result of such privilege - a call for us to play the same politicians that sapped funds from the working class to build rocket ships, from fema to fund the war on terror.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">By surrendering our political and personal agency to a brand of politics that wages war against those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, difference and those seen as unproductive, we embody the identity of the whitey that condones the presence of the violence that it creates or sustains in order to focus on sexier distractions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mumia Abu Jamal explains the harsh realities of being on the other side of this privilege...of being pushed to the bottom of political and social institutions...of being invisible...when he said:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998[“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It has often been observed that **America is a truly violent nation**, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. **Every year**, some **20,000 people are killed by others, and**</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">additional **20,000** folks **kill themselves**. Add to this the non lethal</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">violence that Americans daily inflict on each other, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent feature of living in the midst of the American empire. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">We live</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, **in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence**, of a kind **that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness**.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Gilligan observes; **“By structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society**,</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">as contrasted by those who are above them.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This form of violence</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is invisible</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> to us **and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious.**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes:</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> **"[E]very fifteen years**, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">on the average, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">as many people die because of</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> relative **__poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">that caused 232 million deaths;</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> **and every**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> single **__year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> of the Jews over a six-year period. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This is</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, in effect, **__the equivalent of an ongoing,__**__unending, in fact **accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade,** throughout the<span style="color: #002939;"> world."</span>__</span><span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> [Gillitgan, p. 196] </span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Worse still, in a thoroughly capitalist society, </span>____<span style="color: #001445; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">much of **that violence became internalized**</span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, turned back on the Self, </span>**__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">because, in a society based on the priority of wealth, those who own nothing are taught to loathe themselves, as if something is</span>__**__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">inherently **wrong with themselves, instead of the social order**that promotes this self-loathing. **This** intense self-hatred was often **manifested in familial violence**as **when the husband beats the wife, the wife smacks the son,** and **the kids fight each other. This**vicious, **circular, and invisible violence**, unacknowledged by the corporate media, **uncriticized in** substandard **educational systems, and un- understood by the** very **folks who suffer in its grips, feeds on the**spectacular and **more common forms of violence**that **the system makes** </span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">damn sure -that we can recognize and must react to it. This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.</span><span style="color: #0e002d; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">It is found in every country, submerged beneath the sands of history, buried, yet ever present, as omnipotent as death. In the struggles over the commons in Europe, when the peasants struggled and lost their battles for their commonal lands (a precursor to similar struggles throughout Africa and the Americas), this violence was sanctified, by church and crown, as the 'Divine Right of Kings' to the spoils of class battle. Scholars Frances Fox-Piven and Richard A Cloward wrote, in The New Class War (Pantheon, 1982/1985): They did not lose because landowners were immune to burning and preaching and rioting. They lost because the usurpations of owners were regularly defended by the legal authority and the armed force of the state. It was the state that imposed increased taxes or enforced the payment of increased rents, and evicted or jailed those who could not pay the resulting debts. It was the state that made lawful the appropriation by landowners of the forests, streams, and commons, and imposed terrifying penalties on those who persisted in claiming the old rights to these resources. It was the state that freed serfs or emancipated sharecroppers only to leave them landless. (52) The "Law", then, was a tool of the powerful to protect their interests, then, as now. It was a weapon against the poor and impoverished, then, as now. It punished retail violence, while turning a blind eye to the wholesale violence daily done by their class masters.</span>__<span style="color: #0e002d; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> **The law** was, and **is,** a tool of state power, **utilized to protect the status quo, no matter how oppressive** that status was, or is. **Systems are** essentially **ways of doing things that have concretized into tradition,**and custom, **without regard to the rightness of those ways. No system that causes this kind of harm to people should be allowed to remain,**based solely upon its time in existence. Systems must serve life, or be discarded as a threat and a danger to life. **Such systems must pass away, so** that **their**great and terrible **violence passes away with them.** </span>__

**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Therefore this debate is about who best performatively and methodologically challenges structural violence.</span>**

**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The reason why traditional political approaches fail to effectively combat oppression is because those in power, including us, are never willing to escape their privileged ways of knowing the world. This practice ensures structural violence is never discussed.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bilgin 05</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Pinar (Department of International Relations, Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey) //Regional Security in the Middle East// 2005 p 49-50 DLR</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The positions of </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Gray and Garnett</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> regarding the theory/practice relationship are similar to that of their conception of theory. Both authors </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">are</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">in favour of and open about the role theories play in informing practice</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">However, their conception of **practice is restricted in that they understand practice as policy-making and implementation at governmental level**</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> In this sense, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">those who do not engage in issues directly relevant for policymaking are not considered to be engaging with practice</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. This position hints at a narrow view of politics where it is considered only to do with governance at the state level. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, in turn, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">flows from the objectivist position</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> adopted by the authors where the study of strategy in particular and academic enterprise in general is viewed as a politics-free zone</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. This is a powerful move, **for** </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">once an approach is regarded as ‘objective’, others that are critical of it are immediately labelled</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">at best **‘subjective’** or ‘political’ in a derogatory sense, **and**at worst **‘propaganda’**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. It is not only the conception of practice adopted by Gray and Garnett but also that of </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">theory</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is restricted</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> in that both conceive theory </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">as ‘problem-solving theory’</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, in Robert Cox’s (1981) terms; </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">it is there to assist policy-makers in solving problems</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Gray 1992: 626–31). Security Studies, in this sense, is supposed to deal with issues that are deemed problematic by policy-makers,21 </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">leaving untouched other issues that do not make it to governmental agendas</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, in turn, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">creates a vicious circle where issues to be put on the security agenda</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">are decided by policy-makers and analysed by those who they consider as ‘experts’. Those who propound alternative views are dismissed as mere propagandists and the issues they identified, **such as ‘structural violence’, are not allowed on security agendas**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. This position is still prevalent in certain strands of security thinking in the post-Cold War era (see, for example, Walt 1991). </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This is why we must begin our examination of oppression from outside the gates of Washington. It's time that we call into question the very logic of privilege that acts as the backdrop for current political and ethical understandings of violence rather than individual outcomes of that system.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Russel-Morris in 2009 explains:</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">RUSSELL-MORRIS,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (BRIANNE, THE LOGIC OF WELFARE REFORM: AN ANALYSIS OF THE REAUTHORIZATION OF THE PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY AND WORK OPPORTUNITYRECONCILIATION ACT OF 1996)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Discourse and policy go hand in hand, and</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> so </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">both must change</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> in order </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">for inequalities</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">and thus poverty </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to be truly addressed.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">A change in povertydiscourse must precede a change in antipoverty policy. New social welfare policy should be based in a discourse that promotes an understanding that inequality and poverty are entangled. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The state must change</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">fundamentally in order **to address and to dismantle the sources of structural inequalities**, such as neoliberal capitalism and patriarchal gender relations, **rather than the individual outcomes**of those inequalities.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Both Schram (1995) and O’Connor (2001) call for a need to view discourse and structure as connected. In other words, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">we must focus on how policy and the language that is used to discuss and create that policy reinforce each other, and only then can we begin to move beyond such a limited discourse</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">O’Connor argues that poverty</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> **researchers must work independently of the State so**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">they “generate a genuinely independent and critical body of knowledge that aims to set rather than follow the agenda for policy debate”</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(2001:293). </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">If knowledge is understood as part of larger cultural dynamics</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> and their resulting economic, political, and social inequalities</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, poverty as a social problem is “de-pauperized”</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">will be taken seriously </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">as a problem with structural, not </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">behavioral, roots.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Institutions, and</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">not only the </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">individual-level consequences</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">of those institutions, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">would come under scrutiny and </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">would be </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">targeted for change</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(O’Connor 2001).</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is necessary to begin an examination of politics, the resolution, and ourselves from outside of our comfort zones. Rather than closing off our country clubs and White House gates we must foster a dialogue with those enduring oppression </span><span style="font-family: Times;">wherever somebody's struggling to be free. It is absolutely essential that we begin our fight against oppression with those who are rendered abject.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brett Henze suggests:</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Brent R.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Henze2000</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> “Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Though I argue against efforts to speak for those otherwise able to produce and enact liberatory agendas for themselves</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">,“starting off thought” from the lives of the oppressed is useful for grounding the knowledge of outsiders seeking to understand their own</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> complex **relations to systems of oppression. Outsiders**cannot simply investigate the effects of oppressive power structures in their own lives; on the contrary, their **relationships to the oppressed require them to understand systems of oppression from the perspective of the oppressed, producing a less partial awareness of matrices of power, as well as their specific relationships with those matrices**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (including the broader implications of their experiences of enablement). </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Only by becoming conscious of the experiences</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> of the garment worker </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">can I properly understand my contribution to the power structure</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> that incongruously yields me a T-shirt and yields the laborer a penny on every dollar I spend. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Without working to understand her perspective, my own partial perspective is ineffectual. But **by supplementing my perspective with hers, I am enabled to make better-informed choices about my own actions**—actions **that resist or contribute to the oppression that I may only witness secondhand.**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Hence the first result of this approach is a more suitable platform from which to understand and manage the effects of our own actions as they feed into and are shaped by systems of power that oppress others. Instead of seeing our activity simply as a kind of transaction between ourselves and a system of power (which we may manipulate to our benefit), we may become better able to understand the effects of our involvement in relation to the involvement of others. In other words</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, **the standpoint of the oppressed is necessary to manage our own involvement with systems of oppression so as most effectively to combat oppression as a systemic** yet particular **effect of power.**</span>__

**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">You know</span>**
**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I just about had my fill </span>**
**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">With Whitey on the moon</span>**
**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I think I'll send these doctor bills</span>**
**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">airmail special</span>**
**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to Whitey on the moon</span>**







=Round 2 Neg vs. Westminster PP= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I remember gripping my Pokémon sheets lying lifeless on my bed listening to police and ambulance sirens in the distance from the comfort of my dimly lit room. The window I was gazing out of was suffocated by the sunset exploding over my suburban wonderland. I used to just gaze into the stars, sitting, waiting, and wishing for something new to come. Because the same-old, same-old was getting old, and I needed someplace else to explore in my life.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">So I began an exploration, a journey out of my familiar suburban West-Omaha home and into the unknown. I began to spend nights downtown, in the Old Market, an unfamiliar world with a cool, hip atmosphere. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">This marked a new exploration and development of myself beyond my comfort zone.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I began to toy around with my new contraptions, with excitement, with the abstract.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">So I hit the comic book stores, ice cream parlors and toys shops, to redefine myself.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">After getting filled up with cute delights, I would hit the sidewalks illuminated by retro moons, blues musicians and wayward travelers looking for somewhere to go. I would listen to the street performers and individuals converse and jam, nodding along politely, and then continuing on to the next corner where I would find a similar explosion of a new world. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">In the park nearby, was a man sprawled across a pretty black bench. He was wearing ragged clothes and beside him was a tattered leather suitcase and an American flag he used to cover himself up when it got cold. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">He asked me for a few dollars that he and I both knew I could part with, but I refused to give him some. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Nobody helped me, why should I help him.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I too was excluded from the rest of the world. Never included in schoolyard games, standing awkwardly to the side, eager to join in, but when I opened my mouth there weren’t any words to be found. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I, like many of us, was waiting. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Waiting for someone to act, But when no one would engage me I knew I had to engage them. So one day I took the initiate and asked if I could play soccer, the head person said: “No thanks ginger.” Of course they didn’t want their soccer ball to be tainted or anything. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">It was this event and many more that played like a broken record every time I was confronted with experiences like this, and when I came across it this night under the infamous crisp bright lights of downtown Omaha my motto was the same:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Everyone's got their cross to bear. We've all got bootstraps that we can pull ourselves up with.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">He looked at me with his dark, broken eyes, said "thanks anyways," and went back to sitting, waiting, wishing for the next day to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I walked past a streetlight with a similar looking man with a similar looking story. I similarly refused but this man wasn't about to take no for an answer. He looked at me with explosions in his eyes and asked why I couldn't spare a few dollars for him to eat when I had decent clothes, a backpack of comics and toys, and a melting vanilla ice cream cone. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I told him how I felt on the subject, told him that we all had bootstraps that we could pull ourselves up from, we all had a place in the world, we just have to go out there and find it. I'll never forget his response: "Not everyone has boots, and the world just ain't willing to let me be a part of it." </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">He was left for dead underneath the exploding moonlight and white picket fences, indie gravel roads, and fancy streetlights. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">There were plenty of fucks to give, but sadly none could be found.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">It was at this moment I recognized how caught up in my own troubles I had become, turning a blind eye to the rest of the world, looking upwards to hipster moons, candy, and playthings. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I was privilege. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I was a man watching the news who cared more about the weather than the child who died the night before.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I was George Bush flying over Katrina cheesing at the camera.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I was Manifest Destiny.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">It was my opinion that </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should substantially increase its efforts to monitor near earth objects including placing a dedicated space telescope in Venus-like orbit.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">A rat done bit my sister Nell, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">with Whitey on the moon.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Her face and arms began to swell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">and Whitey's on the moon</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I can't pay no doctor bill</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> but Whitey's on the moon</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Ten years from now I'll be payin' still. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> while Whitey's on the moon</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Was all that money I made las' year  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">for Whitey on the moon?</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> How come there ain't no money here? </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Hmm! Whitey's on the moon…</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">The man jus' upped my rent las' night. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">'cause Whitey's on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">No hot water, no toilets, no lights. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">but Whitey's on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I wonder why he's uppi' me? </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> 'cause Whitey's on the moon?</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> with Whitey on the moon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Taxes takin' my whole damn check, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The price of food is goin' up, </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">A rat done bit my sister Nell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">with Whitey on the moon </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Her face an' arm began to swell.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">but Whitey's on the moon...</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">After walking endlessly through the world of poverty, rat bites and a system that turned its back on him, 1960's bluesologist Gil Scott Heron became convinced that the system he was told he could always rely on was more willing to focus on “more important matters” rather than acknowledge those who live within the cracks of such systems.'</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">I was the same -willing to turn a blind eye, willing to accept violence as being inevitable, as being a part of the status-quo. This is the logic of invisibility. Of positing suffering and violence as unimportant or irrelevant as a result of our own privilege.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">The affirmative is a result of such privilege - a call for us to play the same politicians that sapped funds from the working class to build satellites, sapping interest from material conditions to play fear tactics.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Not only does the affirmative fail to solve its own impacts, it reifies the invisibility of oppression, another reason to ignore those who are always igored. They have not presented any reason as to why their discussion of asteroids leads to any actual change in Washington which means the 1AC is nothing more than a big sexy impeding doom moon that Whitey mentally masturbates to, distracting us from investigating an impeding doom that affects each and every one of us, but more specifically those we often fail to acknowledge. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Mumia Abu Jamal explains the harsh realities of being on the other side of this privilege...of being pushed to the bottom of political and social institutions...of being invisible...when he said:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998[“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">It has often been observed that **America is a truly violent nation**, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. **Every year**, some **20,000 people are killed by others, and**</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">additional **20,000** folks **kill themselves**. Add to this the non lethal</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">violence that Americans daily inflict on each other, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent feature of living in the midst of the American empire. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">We live</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, **in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence**, of a kind **that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness**.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Gilligan observes; **“By structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society**,</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">as contrasted by those who are above them.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">This form of violence</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">is invisible</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> to us **and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious.**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes:</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> **"[E]very fifteen years**, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">on the average, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">as many people die because of</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> relative **__poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">that caused 232 million deaths;</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> **and every**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> single **__year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the Jews over a six-year period. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">This is</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, in effect, **__the equivalent of an ongoing,__**__unending, in fact **accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade,** throughout the<span style="color: #002939;"> world."</span>__</span><span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Gillitgan, p. 196] </span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Worse still, in a thoroughly capitalist society, </span>____<span style="color: #001445; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">much of **that violence became internalized**</span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">, turned back on the Self, </span>**__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">because, in a society based on the priority of wealth, those who own nothing are taught to loathe themselves, as if something is</span>__**__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">inherently **wrong with themselves, instead of the social order**that promotes this self-loathing. **This** intense self-hatred was often **manifested in familial violence**as **when the husband beats the wife, the wife smacks the son,** and **the kids fight each other. This**vicious, **circular, and invisible violence**, unacknowledged by the corporate media, **uncriticized in** substandard **educational systems, and un- understood by the** very **folks who suffer in its grips, feeds on the**spectacular and **more common forms of violence**that **the system makes** </span>__<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">damn sure -that we can recognize and must react to it. This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.</span><span style="color: #0e002d; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">It is found in every country, submerged beneath the sands of history, buried, yet ever present, as omnipotent as death. In the struggles over the commons in Europe, when the peasants struggled and lost their battles for their commonal lands (a precursor to similar struggles throughout Africa and the Americas), this violence was sanctified, by church and crown, as the 'Divine Right of Kings' to the spoils of class battle. Scholars Frances Fox-Piven and Richard A Cloward wrote, in The New Class War (Pantheon, 1982/1985): They did not lose because landowners were immune to burning and preaching and rioting. They lost because the usurpations of owners were regularly defended by the legal authority and the armed force of the state. It was the state that imposed increased taxes or enforced the payment of increased rents, and evicted or jailed those who could not pay the resulting debts. It was the state that made lawful the appropriation by landowners of the forests, streams, and commons, and imposed terrifying penalties on those who persisted in claiming the old rights to these resources. It was the state that freed serfs or emancipated sharecroppers only to leave them landless. (52) The "Law", then, was a tool of the powerful to protect their interests, then, as now. It was a weapon against the poor and impoverished, then, as now. It punished retail violence, while turning a blind eye to the wholesale violence daily done by their class masters.</span>__<span style="color: #0e002d; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> **The law** was, and **is,** a tool of state power, **utilized to protect the status quo, no matter how oppressive** that status was, or is. **Systems are** essentially **ways of doing things that have concretized into tradition,**and custom, **without regard to the rightness of those ways. No system that causes this kind of harm to people should be allowed to remain,**based solely upon its time in existence. Systems must serve life, or be discarded as a threat and a danger to life. **Such systems must pass away, so** that **their**great and terrible **violence passes away with them.** </span>__

**<span style="color: #002939; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Therefore this debate is about who best performatively and methodologically challenges structural violence.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The affirmative is the very antithesis of productive social action – they are an informative speech that tells us we’re all doomed but provides no mechanism to cope with that doom. They have read no evidence as to why their reading of the1AC, why your signing A-F-F on a ballot stops asteroids or situates us in any better way to fight that fight. The aff is no different than a man coming to your house telling you someone is on their way to kill you, and then providing you their OPINION that you get an alarm system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is necessary to begin an examination of politics, the affirmative, and ourselves from outside of our comfort zones. Rather than closing off our country clubs and White House gates we must foster a dialogue with those enduring oppression </span><span style="font-family: Times;">wherever somebody's struggling to be free. It is absolutely essential that we begin our fight against oppression with those who are rendered abject.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brett Henze suggests:</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Brent R.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Henze2000</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> “Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">Though I argue against efforts to speak for those otherwise able to produce and enact liberatory agendas for themselves</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">,“starting off thought” from the lives of the oppressed is useful for grounding the knowledge of outsiders seeking to understand their own</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> complex **relations to systems of oppression. Outsiders**cannot simply investigate the effects of oppressive power structures in their own lives; on the contrary, their **relationships to the oppressed require them to understand systems of oppression from the perspective of the oppressed, producing a less partial awareness of matrices of power, as well as their specific relationships with those matrices**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (including the broader implications of their experiences of enablement). </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Only by becoming conscious of the experiences</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the garment worker </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">can I properly understand my contribution to the power structure</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that incongruously yields me a T-shirt and yields the laborer a penny on every dollar I spend. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Without working to understand her perspective, my own partial perspective is ineffectual. But **by supplementing my perspective with hers, I am enabled to make better-informed choices about my own actions**—actions **that resist or contribute to the oppression that I may only witness secondhand.**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hence the first result of this approach is a more suitable platform from which to understand and manage the effects of our own actions as they feed into and are shaped by systems of power that oppress others. Instead of seeing our activity simply as a kind of transaction between ourselves and a system of power (which we may manipulate to our benefit), we may become better able to understand the effects of our involvement in relation to the involvement of others. In other words</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, **the standpoint of the oppressed is necessary to manage our own involvement with systems of oppression so as most effectively to combat oppression as a systemic** yet particular **effect of power.**</span>__

# **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our interpretation – the affirmative must performatively increase space exploration and/or development. The body, not the plan should be the focus of the debate.</span>**
# **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Violation – the affirmative does not actually increase space exploration and/or development – they merely present a plan for how the USFG might increase space exploration</span>**
# **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Vote negative - </span>**
## **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Presumption – the affirmative does nothing. Voting affirmative in this debate will not produce the advantages discussed.</span>**
## **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Limits – there are an infinite amount of potential plan and policy proposals that the affirmative could fiat, but there are a limited amount of ways the bodies in the debate could increase space exploration and/or development. </span>**
## **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Predictability – our interpretation means that the negative only has to defend what they, or the other team does in the debate and not some random harm identified like hegemony, economic collapse or whiteness. The USFG is inherently unpredictable. Body politics are not.</span>**
## **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Education</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> i. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Topic Education – aff interpretation encourages bad debate. Including conditionality, plan inclusive counterplans, international fiat, process pics, and a host of other bad debates. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> ii. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Activism good – plan focus requires that we invest our advocacy in bureaucratic institutions as opposed to individuals. This agency displacement produces bad citizens who are slaves to the state.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> 5. Fairness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> i. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Ground – aff interpretation destroys our dissad ground based on individual action and forces us to defend USFG inaction – they make it impossible to be negative. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> ii. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Marginal voices D/A – requiring a discussion of USFG policy instead of individual action marginalizes participants who’s views are not excluded from the policy making process. The impact is psychological violence and the refusal and subsequent debate of the minority subject in debate. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">These are all voting issues for obvious reasons. </span>**
=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]