[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Post-Structuralist AIDS AC</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Section 1 is ethics.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The notion of self is intertwined with the notion of the Other. The “I” is a relational being whose existence is shaped through primary interactions with an Other which are ultimately unknowable to the subject, making the self opaque, and these interactions with the Other continue to shape the “I”. Butler 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Judith Butler. (Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature Departments, Berkeley) “Giving an Account of Oneself”. Diacritics. John Hopkins University Press. 2001.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The Hegelian other…occasioned and disoriented.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This analysis of self is pre-ethical. It precedes an evaluation of ethics because only when we understand ourselves can we determine our moral obligations and moral identity. Without a notion of self, you cannot form, recognize, or agree to any set of principles. Butler 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Judith Butler. (Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature Departments, Berkeley) “Giving an Account of Oneself”. Diacritics. John Hopkins University Press. 2001.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Levinas considers the accusative inauguration… is designed to address this problem </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">However, a temporary or passing interaction with the Other is not sufficient—we must maintain sustained interaction and construct a narrative with them in order to understand ourselves. Butler 3.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> Judith Butler. (Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature Departments, Berkeley) “Giving an Account of Oneself”. Diacritics. John Hopkins University Press. 2001. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">So how do these concerns… on the basis of a transference </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> But, in order to maintain this relationship, we must always seek to better understand the Other, although full understanding will always be beyond reach. Butler 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> Judith Butler. (Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature Departments, Berkeley) “Giving an Account of Oneself”. Diacritics. John Hopkins University Press. 2001. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">If the identity we say we are…arranging for its death.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Section 2 is a genealogy of AIDS discourse.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">First, since its origin, AIDS has been associated with homosexuality and their supposed promiscuity. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Seidman, Steven. 1988. Transfiguring Sexual Identity: AIDS & the Contemporary Construction of Homosexuality. Social Text, No. 19/20 (Autumn, 1988), pp. 187-205. Duke University Press Stable</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">In the heterosexual media…sexual promiscuity, disease, and death.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, this discourse continues to paint AIDS as a righteous punishment for same sex relations, otherizing the queer community and denying them entry into our health networks.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Seidman, Steven. 1988. Transfiguring Sexual Identity: AIDS & the Contemporary Construction of Homosexuality. Social Text, No. 19/20 (Autumn, 1988), pp. 187-205. Duke University Press Stable</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The AIDS discourse…heterosexual response to AIDS.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This has continued today, with queer victims suffering at the hands of insurance companies and being unable to access treatment because of societal stigma.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">US Department of Health and Human Services. AIDS.gov. “Health Care Reform and HIV/AIDS”. June 2012.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">On March 23, 2010…this population.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Section 3. I contend that universal health care is a necessary response to the AIDS epidemic in the US because..</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. For years, the queer community has called for universal health care</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Dr. Beatrix Hoffman. “Health Care Reform and Social Movements in the United States”. American Journal of Public Health. January, 2003. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">At no time…rights for all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">2. The opinion of the marginalized must be heard and the oppressed must be able to respond to their oppression as they see fit. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">3. The treatment of AIDS must be transformed into a public affair. Phillip Kayal writes…</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Kayal 2, Phillip M. 92 “Healing Homophobia: Volunteerism and "Sacredness" in AIDS” Journal of Religion and Health, Vol. 31, No. 2 (summer, 1992), pp. 113-128 Springer</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">In condemnation…self extended.</span>

==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pragmatic Sovereign NC</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">I negate and value morality because the resolution concerns the normative value of governmental action. However, epistemic questions must be examined before normative ones.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. Truth has varied meanings for individuals because objects draw their significance and meaning from their practical implications, which vary from person to person. James 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">William James. “Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking”. 1907.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A glance at the history …be the true one.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND, truth conceptualized as a verification of an objective reality fails to make sense due to the inability to verify every concept and object with which we interact. Instead, we have to take things as true based on their usefulness to us. James 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">William James. “Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking”. 1907.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Take, for instance, yonder object … all that happens.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Parrish explains how this conflict of subjective perspectives leads to perpetual disagreement and conflict within the state of nature…</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rick Parrish. “Derrida’s Economy of Violence in Hobbes’ Social Contract”. Theory & Event. Volume 7, Issue 4. 2005. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">"For Hobbes truth …on individual appetites.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Parrish 2 continues, explaining how the creation of a sovereign allows for unified truth and a pragmatic solution to the conflict of desires.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Parrish 2, Rick. “Derrida’s Economy of Violence in Hobbes’ Social Contract”. Theory & Event. Volume 7, Issue 4. 2005. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">All of the foregoing … the natural condition.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus, the necessary standard with which to measure the truth of the resolution is consistency with sovereign interpretation. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">I contend that the sovereign is not obligated to provide universal health care.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. Obligations are incoherent within a conception of absolute sovereignty.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">2. Obamacare is not universal health care and so the sovereign has already decided that this is not an obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Hedges 12. America's Superficial Health Care Debate Silences Single-Payer Supporters Monday, 09 April 2012 10:06 By </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://truth-out.org/news/item/index.php?option=com_k2&view=itemlist&task=user&id=44723&Itemid=252|Chris Hedges]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/the_real_health_care_debate_20120409/|Truthdig]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> | News Analysis. Truth Out. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://truth-out.org/news/item/8407-the-real-health-care-debate]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">We have the solution…priced out of the market.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">3. The only reason why people leave the state of nature is for reasons of defense and normative regulation. </span>



=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]