[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cite Request/Information</span></span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neg: priya.3397@gmail.com </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff: rahbiar@gmail.com </span>
=1AC= 

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially invest in the infrastructure for Next Generation Air Transportation System in the United States.</span>**
==Econ== 
**Economy low now- industries are bringing it down.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AP 9/27 (Associated Press, US economy grew at 1.3 percent rate in April-June quarter, weaker than previous estimate, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/us-economy-grew-at-13-percent-rate-in-april-june-quarter-weaker-than-previous-estimate/2012/09/27/d51062c6-08a5-11e2-9eea-333857f6a7bd_story.html]] , 9/27/12) </span>
The growth rate was lowered from a previous estimate of 1.7 percent,
AND
expect unemployment will stay around 8 percent for the rest of this year.

Economic growth is key to prevent global wars
Kemp 10[Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center
AND
Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4]
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.

Updating NextGen would spur economic growth and avoid an inevitable future collapse
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">BLAKEY 11 [</span>President and CEO of Aerospace Industries Association,Marion C. Blakey, The future of NextGen, 02/15/11, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen]
The House and Senate have each declared passage of a new FAA Authorization bill a
AND
give FAA the tools to keep our nation the leader in civil aviation.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have multiple internal links</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 1st is stimulus:</span>**
Plan injects money into the economy
**NEXA 11** [Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company “NextGen Equipage Fund” April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)]
In an important recent study, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">STIGLITZ 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second is the aviation industry:</span>**
Implementation is key to economic growth
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">HUERTA 12 </span>Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration [Michael P. Huerta; March 2012; “NextGen Implementation Plan]
WHy NextGeN MatteRS NextGen benefits everyone from frequent flyers to those who rarely travel by
AND
operate more efficiently and competitively, NextGen is intended to do just that.

Nextgen solves: Even the pessimistic numbers show there will be a major economic boost
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bin Salam 12 </span>Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]
Based on these estimates, the total cost of accidents to the general aviation community
AND
- ing incidents in general aviation, the potential benefits are substantial.28
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Summary of NextGen Benefits</span>
Table 6 summarizes the potential annual NextGen benefits to the aviation community, assuming complete
AND
can be reduced by up to $2.83 million/year.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third is jobs:</span>**
NextGen generates recovery through jobs and business efficiency
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calio 11</span>[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Next is congestion: </span>**
NextGen ends airport congestion – boosting America’s economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schank 6/23</span>[Joshua L. Schank, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation, 6/23/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]
We often think of airports as local economic generators, and they are that,
AND
interest at play here and the federal government needs to be more involved.


==Heg== 
**First is China,**
Chinese aviation is growing now – It’s indicative of greater trends of maturity
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dawson 2012</span>**[**Kelly Dawson. 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm]
Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm
AND
in the US, with a target of 4,500 by 2016.

NextGen boosts the airline industry – they’ll invest in other systems
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Laing 6-14-12</span> [Keith; national political journalist; The Hill; “Obama: 'NextGen' air traffic control system a 'smart investment'”; [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/aviation/166373-obama-nextgen-air-traffic-control-system-a-smart-investment-]]]
During President Obama's meeting of his Jobs and Competitiveness Council in swing state North Carolina
AND
bogged down in discussions over the labor rights of airline and railroad employees.

US avionics leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaglen</span> Research Fellow for National Security <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Szaszdi 09 </span>
Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, [“The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security,” Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm] E. Liu
China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce
AND
crews and an adequate pool of replacements and well-trained new pilots.

Aggression escalates --- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.
**Fisher**, 10/31/**2011** [Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/#slide1]
After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and
AND
with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second is aerospace,</span>**

Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GOMEZ et al </span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">12 </span> [Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy “Dependence on key customers”, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)]
Demand in the aerospace market PCP’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">National Aerospace Week 10</span> [September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]] National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.

Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Barnett 11</span> [Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]]
It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

And, US __pursuit__ of hegemony is inevitable – only a question of effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calleo</span>, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘10</span>
(David P, “American Decline Revisited,” //Survival//, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is
AND
turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.

The transition independently causes extinction
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full]</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy -- or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.


UAS integration is key to create thousands of aerospace jobs and sector growth
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AUVSI, 10</span>
AUVSI, Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International, 10, [“Unmanned Aircraft System Integration into the United States Aerospace System: An Assessment of the Impact on Job Creation in the U.S. Aerospace Industry,” issuu.com/auvsi/docs/26_july_2010_congressional_staff_briefing]
The U.S. Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) market is a promising
AND
step back and losing the progress it has made in the last decade.

Aerospace structure modernization helps track space debris
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Aerospace Week</span>, September 11-17, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2011</span>. “Aerospace and Defense: Second to None,”
http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf
Space is certainly becoming more contested, congested and competitive. More than 60 nations
AND
our scientific knowledge and inspire our youth to pursue engineering and science disciplines.

Collision of space debris with sensitive military satellites could spark miscalculation and accidental war.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jakhu, 1997</span> (McGill Univ. Professor, 07 Ram, “Legal Issues of Satellite Telecommunications, the Geostationary Orbit, and SpaceDebris,” Astropolitics, Volume 5, Issue 2, accessed 5-9-11, p. EBSCO)
There have been several recorded close encounters with space debris and one confirmed collision,
AND
disintegrated in 1978 and scattered radioactive debris over a largearea in Northern Canada.

NextGen secures America from terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joint Planning and Development Office, 4</span>
[“Next Generation Air Transportation System: Integrated Plan,” Department of Transportation, 2004, http://www.jpdo.aero/pdf/NGATS_v1_1204r.pdf]
In light of the continuing threat of terrorism, new defense tactics and technologies must
AND
, baggage, and cargo with greater speed, accuracy, and efficiency.

Terrorism results in nuclear great power war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span>**,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.

==Solvency== 
The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">]</span>
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.

Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the
AND
not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37

Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bin Salam 12</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
Conclusion
NextGen is faced with four major hurdles<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>
//Uncertainty Regarding NextGen’s Benefits//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.</span>
Uncertainty Regarding the FAA’s Ability to Deliver. Even though a lack of strong political






=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Wake Forest=== 
Round 2 vs. Niles West(Port Security)
1NC:
Coast Guard CP
Coercion
Elections DA- Obama Good, Iran Strikes
Complexity
T-Accessories
2NR: Elections DA and Case

Round 3 vs. Pace BH (Title XI)
1NC:
States CP
Complexity K
Coercion
Elections - Obama Good, China Bashing
2NR: K/ FW

Quarters vs. Niles West AW (Port Security)
1NC:
Complexity K
Elections DA- Obama Good, Iran Strikes
Coast Guard CP
T-Accessories
2NR: Elections DA and Case

===Chattahoochee=== 

Round 2 vs. Woodward DS (Surface Transportation)
1NC:
States CP
Elections DA - Obama Good, Iran Strikes
Coercion DA
Complexity K
Stim Turns
2NR: Elections DA(Obama Good, Iran Strikes) and Case Turns

Round 3 vs. Chamblee AP (HazMat)
1NC:
Coercion DA
Elections DA - Obama Good, China Bashing/ Iran Strikes
Complexity K
Case
2NR: Elections DA and Case

Round 6 vs. Johns Creek KR (Nuclearism)
1NC:
T- USFG
T-Resolved
T-Should
F/W
Case
2NR: F/W, T-USFG

===Sequoyah=== 

Round 2 vs. Dunwoody HF (SUSTAIN)
1NC:
T-Infrastructure
Complexity K
Fiscal Cliff DA - ME War Impact
Privates CP
2NR: K

Round 3 vs. Marist AB (Port Security)
1NC:
Coast Guard CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
T-TI
Complexity K
2NR: K

===Ohio Valley=== 
Round 1 vs. Niles West IK (Port Security)
1NC:
T-Accessories
Fiscal Cliff DA
Complexity K
Terror Adv CP
2NR: K

Round 3 vs. Traverse City Central CP (HSR)
1NC:
States CP
Warming Rock CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Coercion DA
Case Turns
2NR: Case Turns

Round 6 vs. Hawken EW (Military Ocean Terminals)
1NC:
T-Military
Fiscal Cliff DA
Complexity K
2NR: DA, Case


===JV/Novice State=== 
Round 1 vs. Roswell MR (Port Dredging)
1NC:
Immigration DA
Complexity K
States CP
T-Maintenance/In
2NR: Ptx, Case

Round 3 vs. Milton GZ (Mayport)
1NC:
Immigration DA
Complexity K
T - Military
Personnel/Info CP
2NR: Ptx, Case

Quarter vs. Hooch IW (Nanotech)
T - Primary Purpose
Immigration DA
Regulations CP
Complexity K
2NR: Ptx, Case
==Disadvantages== 
===Fiscal Cliff=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fiscal cliff will pass but PC key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weisman 10/1 Jonathan is a writer at the New York Times. “Leaders at Work on Plan to Avert Mandatory Cuts,” 2012,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/us/senate-leaders-at-work-on-plan-to-avert-fiscal-cliff.html?hp&_r=0]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WASHINGTON — Senate leaders are closing in on a path for dealing with the “</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the deal, deliver the members of his party and sign the bill.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation funding breeds partisanship.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freemark 1/25 (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, <[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]]>)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Successful presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hutchison, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Middle East goes nuclear</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, 9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26,[[http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various factors: (1)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coercion</span>=== 
====1NC==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The funding for the aff is coercively obtained -- the government uses its influence and strength to force citizens to finance transportation infrastructure.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rothbard, 2—dean of the Austrian School of economics (Murray N., “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)/EM|http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)//EM]]=</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The State indeed performs many important AND shot if he should continue to resist.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Each new step of coercion must be resisted – it moves us one step further along the road of oppression</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Browne, 1995 (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, Why Government Doesn’t Work, p.65-66)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Escalation Each increase in coercion is easier AND to build a better world.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Immigration </span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Immigration will pass now and Obama is working on the bill.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NYT 1-12 [Julia Preston, New York Times Staff; Obama Will Seek Citizenship Path in One Fast Push; 1 – 12 – 13;[[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/13/us/politics/obama-plans-to-push-congress-on-immigration-overhaul.html?_r=0]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Obama plans to push Congress to move AND “difficult missions” the country must take on.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LINK</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capital key to passage – unforeseen events could change it</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SHIFTER 12 – 27 – 12 PRESIDENT of the Inter-American Dialogue & adjunct professor of Latin American politics at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service [Michael Shifter, Will Obama Kick the Can Down the Road?, [[http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=3186]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Not surprisingly, Obama has been explicit AND. Resistance will not disappear.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012 (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p.[[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Comprehensive immigration reform will AND plus than not," he said.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schaffer, Spring 2002 (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Washington's increased interest in India AND relations with the United States.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coast Guard </span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC </span>==== 
Text: The United States Coast Guard should increase the execution of all port security programs within its jurisdiction as per our GAO evidence, including improvements to Maritime Domain Awareness.

Our Solvency Advocate
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GAO 11 [Government Accountability Office; October 2011; Coast Guard Should Conduct Required Inspections of Offshore Energy Infrastructure; </span>[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/585968.pdf]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">; AG]</span>
To strengthen the Coast Guard’s efforts to ensure the security of OCS¶ facilities and
AND
F.R. parts 148-150 can be identified within MISLE.

==Kritiks== 
===Complexity=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - Generic</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their linear modeling fails to take into account complexity. Only moving away from predictive models can address multiple extinction level impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gell-Mann, 97– Murray, Nobel Laureate in Physics and professor at the Santa Fe Institute and co-chairman of the Science Board (“Chapter 1: The Simple and the Complex,” Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, ed. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University, [[http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_Complexity_Global.pdf)RK]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At this conference, issues of global politics and security will be addressed AND parts of a very general set of questions about the future.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to Vote Negative to reject linear scenario planning in favor of complex theoretical analysis—unconditionally inserting complexity analysis into the simulation creates better policy planning</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rosenau, professor emeritus of international affairs – George Washington University, ‘97</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(James, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In short, there are strict limits within which AND can serve as a guide both to comprehending a fragmegrated world and theorizing within its limits</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]