[[toc]]
Cites: highlandparkchap@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
E-mail me for the full-text, I'm making it cite format on here cause it makes it easier to read.

==Antipolar Ellipsography Ratiocinational Epistemology Affirmative== 
Will post when broken.

==Translunar Postintellectual Spatial Ontology Affirmative (Broken UT Round 4)== 

First, we played this video:
[[media type="youtube" key="OljSRjBqQk4" height="315" width="420"]]

Then we talked about why Richard Nixon was a liar, why that made us sad that they cut off funding for space projects so he could finance the Vietnam War. Also, we called out AT&T for their $5 billion dollar a minute service for phone calls to the moon.
Then we played this video:
[[media type="youtube" key="FVZmL5UARcs" height="315" width="560"]]

Then we sat down.
==1AC== 

<span class="Underline">**Why do we have to go to school if we know what we want to do? Why do we age? Are we alone?**</span>
<span class="Underline">**These are all questions someone has asked themselves at one point or another, and the only thing that is definite is that time happens. We determine the reality that we live in through our observations, regardless of whether we are in universe 1 or universe 9001.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Robert **Lanza, 2011**. “What Is Death?” </span>[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/transcending-death_b_865233.html]]<span class="Underline"> - AD</span>

<span class="Underline">We all know the biological ... to the stars after all.</span>

<span class="Underline">**In our universe, America is headed towards a violent collapse. Exploitation and capitalism have lead to unreasonable amounts of debt, accelerating environmental crises and all efforts to inject the economy have failed. We need a new strategy.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Chris **Hedges,** **September 10th**, 2012. Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and war correspondent. “Growth Is the Problem.” </span>[[http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/growth_is_the_problem_20120910/]]<span class="Underline"> -AD</span>
<span class="Underline">The ceaseless expansion of ... legal codes to criminalize dissent.”</span>

**Absent change in the way that we approach global liberal capitalism, billions are anonymized and subjugated while being forced to live on under a dollar a day**
Glyn **Daly, 2004**. “Risking the Impossible” [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm]]
<span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">For Zizek it is imperative that we ...</span>**<span style="font-size: 6.5pt;"> exhorts us to risk the impossible.</span>**


Instead of trying to ride the crisis we need a decisive action that emphasizes transition to a sustainable society. We call this mindset tachytelism, and accepting our role in the multiverse leads to reconceptualization of capitalism and reflects down upon our own universe. Once we are presented with the possibility of transcendence, change happens.
**<span class="Underline">John </span>**Stanton, July 24th**, 2012. “Transitioning from Capitalism to Tachytelism in the Anthropocene: A Framework” - AD**
**<span class="Underline">(1) Tachytelism and ... device for the primal mind. (Wilson 2012).</span>**

Plan: the United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure for inter-universal travel.

Wormholes can allow us to travel to other universes.
**<span class="Underline">Ayan </span>**Banerjee et al, July 18, **2012. Department of Mathematics at Jadavpur University, Pailan College of management and technology, and Adamas institute of technology. “Stability of Non-asymptotically flat thin-shell wormholes in generalized dilaton-axion gravity” - AD**
**<span class="Underline">The study of traversable ... 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31].</span>**

Evolving Lorentzian wormholes supported by two fluids are possible and technology is advancing at such a rapid pace they aren't far off.
**<span class="Underline">Mauricio </span>**Cataldo and **Sergio** del Campo**,** April 3,** 2012. Mauricio is a science faculty member at the University of Bio Bio, Sergio is a science faculty member at the Pontificia universidad Catolica de Valparaiso. They're Chilean, so they should know about this stuff. “Two-fluid evolving Lorentzian wormholes” - AD
<span class="Underline">We have ... wormholes solutions (31)-(34).</span>




=Negative= 
Ghill Rd 1 vs. Whitney Young (Marine Transport Systems)
1nc: Complexity, dedev
2nr: de-dev

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]