[[toc]]
GREENHILL 2012 DEBATERS: MAKE SURE YOU LOOK AT THIS SURVEY.
<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://tinyurl.com/ldseqghill]]</span>
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
====Form AC==== 
The **OED** defines extend as “**__To widen the__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">range, scope</span>, **__area of application of (a law__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">operation, dominion</span>, **__state of things, etc.__**); <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to enlarge the scope or meaning of (a word).”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Extend.” June 2012. Published in 1894. Oxford University Press. </span>


Same as “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With forward reference:</span> **__Identical__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with what is indicated in the following context</span>.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Identical.” June 2012. Published in 1894. Oxford University Press.</span>

Accused as **__“charged with or on trial for a crime.”__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Accused.” Oxford University Press.</span>

Presume AFF
A) The AFF only has 4 minutes to respond to the 7 minute NC which skews my

B) The AC must be read before the NC while the NC is reactive, allowing the NC to pick and choose the best strat

C) Moral theories presume people are equal when no relevant distinction is proven since the basis of morality is equal human worth

**Value: Morality** from OED/ought = moral imperative
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Oxford English Dictionary. “Ought.” June 2012. Oxford University Press.]</span>

Denying the premises does not make the statement false or true but rather indeterminate of truth value.


Moral thought is based on ought as a concept the proper function of an agent or object. Anscombe
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">G.E.M. Anscombe “Modern Moral Philosophy” The Journal of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, Vol. XXXIII No. 124, January 1958. The terms “should” … required by law</span>


1. Good is attributive adjective. Geach
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">P.T. Geach, Professor of Logic in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Leeds. “Good and Evil.” //Analysis// 17, No. 2 (1956). I can now … my thesis, illegitimate</span>


2. From “X is agood pen,” saying “X is a good” has no substantive content.


3. Without function, we cannot derive ought from is, which makes norms infinitely regressive.


Form of US is the Constitution.
1. Creation of US based on Constitution
2. It is the “supreme law of the land,” so it codifies US function
3. All other laws and institutions are checked back by Constitution
4. Prefer specific functions since Constitution constrain how US pursues other obligations


CR: **CONSISTENCY WITH US CONSTITUTION**

The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments state that due process rights are guaranteed for all non-citizens. Cole 1/2
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Cole. Law Professor at Georgetown. Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003). The constitution does … on their nationality; Are foreign nationals … the constitutional rule.</span>


Military commissions violate the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. Dickinson
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura A. Dickinson [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. //Southern California Law Review//. Vol. 75:1407. 2002. In addition to … actions brush aside.</span>


The Supreme Court has ruled that the Constitution grants protections to both citizens and non-citizens. Greenwald
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Glenn Greenwald. American </span><span style="font-family: Times;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_journalism|political journalist]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">. Collins Spreads Central Myth about the Constitution.” Feb. 2010. The Salon. First, the U.S. … of the court.</span>



<span style="font-family: Times;">Giving due process is the only way to solve for the threat of terrorism since double standards increase resentment. Cole 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Cole. Law Professor at Georgetown. Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003). Putting aside their … terrorists’ recruitment propaganda.</span>



Those anti-American sentiments alienate local populations, which destroys a vital source of intelligence. Roth
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Roth</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Executive Director of Human Rights Watch, May/June </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">2008</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention.” Foreign Affairs. Preventative detention also … source of intelligence. </span>

==Negative== 
====**Dialogical Respect NC**==== 
**Value: Morality** from OED/ought = moral imperative
[Oxford English Dictionary. “Ought.” June 2012. Oxford University Press.]


Morality is derived from the status of possessing agency, meaning it does not exist outside of an agent-derived authority. Bagnoli 1
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. It is particularly … her own favor</span>


If we value the autonomy of our will, that necessarily mandates we value the autonomy of others. Bagnoli 2
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. Different from other … as its ground.</span>

We respect others by acknowledging their status as authoritative self-legislating beings. This mandates dialogical respect. Bagnoli 3
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. The advantage of … what is implies.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CR: </span>**consistency with dialogical respect**

This applies to US as state since it acts as proxy for citizens in international realm.

Contention 1: US centric courts deny voices.

Terrorism is an international crime. Dickinson 1
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura A. Dickinson [Professor at GW Law]. Using Legal Process to Fight Terrorism Detentions, Military Commissions, International Tribunals, and the Rule of Law. 2002. Regardless of the … Nazis had committed.</span>



<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">This abuse is further shown by the plurality of moral views in the international arena—just using Constitutional due process excludes other possible forms of justice. Menkow 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Carrie Menkel-Meadow [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Times;">Founding Faculty Chancellor's Professor of Law Joint appointment in Law and Political Science] The Trouble with the Adversary System in a Postmodern, Multicultural World. 38 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 5 (1996). Recall that when … complex international cooperation. </span>

====Arbitrary NC==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The aff must defend extending due process rights //currently// ensured to citizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">value – morality </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Morality is premised on the notion that humans have some value necessary to protect.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Moral theories must prohibit arbitrariness. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">First, questions of morality arise when actions of an agent violate another. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Second, arbitrariness of treatment means that one is allowed to be violated even if they don’t deserve that violation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">criterion – preventing arbitrary treatment</span>
A: The Constitutional mandate to be given a trial by jury results in skewed results. Vidmar. “Al-Qaeda-linked…influence jury outcomes.” Neil Vidmar [S<span style="color: #464646;">cholarly research involves the empirical study of law across a broad spectrum of topics in civil and criminal law. A Hhe is a leading expert on jury behavior Is currently engaged in a project with the Law School’s Center for Criminal Justice and Ethical Responsibility.</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: #464646;">]</span> Trial by Jury Involving Persons Accused of Terrorism. Duke Law School Faculty Scholarship Series. 2006. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://lsr.nellco.org/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1054&context=duke_fs]]</span>

B: The adversarial system of justice invites the worst abuse. Menkel. “Although I cannot…search for truth.” Carrie Menkel-Meadow [<span style="color: #222222;">Founding Faculty Chancellor's Professor of Law Joint appointment in Law and Political Science] The Trouble with the Adversary System in a Postmodern, Multicultural World. 38 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 5 (1996), </span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol38/iss1/3]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This is specifically bad for non-citizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A: They often don’t understand those rights or are taken advantage of by actors in the adversarial system. International Commission of Jurists. “Two factors contribute…and asylum seekers.” INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF JURISTS [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> is an international human rights non-governmental organization devoted to the promotion of the understanding and observance of the rule of law]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. NON-CITIZENS AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE. Submission to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">B: Prosecutors have a social incentive to find the terrorist guilty.</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]