[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

=Round 2= 
=1AC - New Round 2= 
1AC China-Russia Adv
Contention 1: Great Power Relations
Russia and China are pushing PAROS – a clear priority – but the US doesn’t listen
Ray Acheson, Project Director of Reaching Critical Will, 11, “Outer Space Militarization, weaponization, and the prevention of an arms race”, Reaching Critical Will,
[[http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/resources/fact-sheets/critical-issues/5454-prevention-of-an-arms-race-in-outer-space]]
, ACC: 1.15.12, p. online
There are multiple players in the space debate,…activities in space include India, Pakistan, Brazil, and the EU.

Two Scenarios---
First, China
Signing PAROS is key to strengthen US-China relations and neutralize risks of war
Jeffrey Lewis, Director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, and former Research Fellow at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy's Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, 2007, The Minimum Means of Reprisal: China’s Search for Security in the Nuclear Age, The American Academy Studies in Global Security book series is edited at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and published by The MIT Press, p. 185-186
“Preventing an arms race in outer space” is …economic and military strength...”33

Cooperation is key to space colonization- sharing new thrust system
Hambling, 08, David, Wired, “Chinese Say They’re Building ‘Impossible’ Space Drive,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/09/chinese-buildin/]]</span>,

Chinese researchers claim they’ve confirmed the …. sailing ships in the age of steam.

Extinction inevitable without space colonization- solves all wars
Collins and Autino 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)
The major source of social friction, including …profusion of possibilities outlined above.

US-Sino relations key to the economy
Clinton, 2011, November issue of Foreign Policy magazine, Hilary, Secretary of State, “America's Pacific Century,”<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/11/americas_pacific_century?page=0,1]]</span>,

On the economic front, the United States and China … balance, predictability, and broader prosperity.

Economic crisis causes war
Royal, 10, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline …considered ancillary to those views.

Scenario 2---Russia
Russia wants PAROS badly
Vladimir Vozhzhov, Official at the Russian Federal Space Agency, et. al., 3-25-05, “Chapter 1: Conference report”, Published in Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space—Conference Report, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-174-2-en]]</span>, ACC: 1.15.12, p. xxii
Existing international outer space law is …those expressed at this conference.

US-Russian relations key to solve Iranian proliferation – checks Russian-Iranian nuclear cooperation
Miller, ’10 - Ph.D., Director, International Security Program @ Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University [Steven E. Miller, Ph.D., Director, International Security Program @ Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University, “Russia and American Nuclear Interests”, U.S.-An Article in the publication Russia Relations: Policy Challenges for the Congress, Vol. 25, No. 1, http://www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf, SM]
The centrality of Russia to the management of …Russia, it is likely impossible to succeed.

Iranian proliferation causes runaway prolif and nuclear war
Kurtz, 06 (Stanley, senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, “Our Fallout-Shelter Future”, National Review Online, 8/28, http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWU4MDMwNmU5MTI5NGYzN2FmODg5NmYyMWQ4YjM3OTU=)
Proliferation optimists, on the other hand, see reasons for hope in the record of nuclear peace during the Cold War. While granting the risks, proliferation optimists … escalating into nuclear confrontations

1ac Militarization Advantage
Obama’s space policy has not been a significant departure from Bush – he still refuses to sign multilateral space treaties because of verification concerns
Ray Acheson, Project Director of Reaching Critical Will, 11, “Outer Space Militarization, weaponization, and the prevention of an arms race”, Reaching Critical Will, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/legal/paros/parosindex.html]]</span>, ACC: 1.15.12, p. online
In July 2010, the Obama administration released … disturbance of others’ is key to guaranteeing US dominance.

US refusal to embrace UN multilateralism is the major barrier to success
Ray Acheson, Project Director of Reaching Critical Will, 2011, “Outer Space Militarization, weaponization, and the prevention of an arms race”, Reaching Critical Will, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/legal/paros/parosindex.html]]</span>, ACC: 1.15.12, p. online
The United Nations General Assembly is consensus-building body… reduce current military uses of outer space.

Removing US opposition is key to success of PAROS – the only solution to space conflict
Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, Summer 10, “Multilateralism in Space: Opportunities and Challenges for Achieving Space Security”, Space and Defense Scholarly Journal of the United States Air Force Academy Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, v4, n2
The Geneva-based Conference on Disarmament … for the maintenance of world peace.”51

Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war
Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)
Perhaps of even greater concern is that … likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.

This leads to extinction
Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
A buildup of space weapons might begin …. destructive military conflict ever seen.

PAROS prevents the deployment of ASATs
Dr Detlev Wolter, Associate Professor of Law at Mainz University, Formerly German Foreign Service in Moscow, Zambia, and in Brussels to the EU, Former Head of the European Department at the German Foreign Ministry and Representative of Germany to the United Nations, Former Chair of the Group of Interested States in Practical Disarmament, 2005 Vice-President of the First Committee of the General Assembly, 3-25-05, “Common Security in Outer Space and International Law”, UNIDIR/2005/29, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-177-7-en]]</span>, ACC: 1.16.12, p. 57
The 1980s began with a complete stoppage of bilateral … effects on international peace and security”.

India could develop ASAT technology that could cause an arms race and nuclear war with Pakistan
Major Kurt Schendzielos, Major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies, 4-30-08, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553]]</span>, ACC: 1.27.12, p. online
As of 2008, there is no public evidence of a … participating in the conflict.

India Pakistan conflict risks global nuclear war that causes extinction
Ghulam Nabi Fai 2k, Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, 12-17-00, Business Recorder, “Observations on a Kashmir Cease-Fire”
India has suffered modest … place on the earth.

Only US space leadership can make multilateral space treaties effective---there is no alternative
Michael Krepon, Founding President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Formerly of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency 3-26-04, “Chapter 4 Space assurance or space weapons”, Published in Safeguarding Space for All: Security and Peaceful Uses; Conference Report, UNIDIR, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-174-2-en]]</span>, ACC: 1.16.12, p. 49-53
The United States has an important choice to make on … places emphasis on preventive war and pre-emption.

1ac Solvency
US participation in PAROS is necessary to prevent space militarization– US refusal denies the possibility of an arms race in space
Ware, Coordinator of the Parliamentary Network for Nuclear Disarmament @ the Middle Powers Initiative, 01, “Weaponization of Space”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/space-weapons/basics/introduction-weaponization-space.htm|http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/space-weapons/basics/introduction-weaponization-space.htm#]]</span>, ACC: 1.15.12, p. online
Outer Space Treaty and military use of space
In 1967, as humanity made great leaps and bounds into … one of conflict and more arms races.

US support of PAROS – and US verification satellites – are vital to make space demil work
Gotz Neuneck, Senior Fellow at the Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy at the University of Hamburg, Germany, and André Rothkirch, Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy (IFSH), Scientific adviser to the German Verification Agency (ZVBw) in relation to the Open Skies Treaty, 3-26-04, “Chapter 10 Incentives for space security: technology, transparency and compliance”, Published in Safeguarding Space for All: Security and Peaceful Uses; Conference Report, UNIDIR, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-174-2-en]]</span>, ACC: 1.16.12, p. 114-116
Resolutions to ban space weapons have been proposed … have been made since 2000.20
=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 
=1ac - New Round 5= 
First note that Obama has abandoned the idea of a permanent American moon base
Rob Waugh, 1-26-12, The Daily Mail, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2092052/Newt-Gingrich-US-moon-base-promise-One-giant-leap-Republican-presidential-candidate.html, ACC: 3.23.12, p. online
Presidential hopeful Newt …the primary in South Carolina.

Furthermore Obama’s NSP is a step back from moon exploration and further muddles the direction of American space policy
G. Ryan Faith, Independent technology consultant and Adjunct Fellow for Space Initiatives at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 4-10-10, “President Obama’s Vision for Space Exploration (part 2)”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1616/1, ACC: 3.23.12, p. online
The future for Presidential visions for space exploration … disinterest and budgetary constraints.

Obama’s waffling on space goals leaves us waiting for a Kennedy like moon moment where Obama unifies the nation behind national space goals
John Scott Lewinski, Freelance Journalist, 5-25-11, “On anniversary of Kennedy moon speech, we should look skyward”, CNET, http://news.cnet.com/8301-11386_3-20065878-76.html, ACC: 3.21.12, p. online
Today, May 25, marks … list of American priorities.

Plan: The President of the United States should issue an Executive Order creating a National Space Policy directing the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to establish an exclusive sovereign American settlement on the Moon.

First note that the Outer Space Treaty is the main barrier to United States sovereignty in space since the national appropriation provision prevents exclusive ownership of space by rejecting space as unclaimed land
Nikhil D. Cooper, Deputy Attorney General, California Department of Justice, Spring 2009, “Note: Circumventing non-appropriation: Law and development of United States space commerce”, Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, 36 Hastings Const. L.Q. 457
The lack of national sovereignty … and the U.S.S.R. n22

An exclusive American moon base would violate the OST’s non-appropriation standard by extending American sovereignty
Sam Biddle, Editor at Gizmodo, Columnist for The Business Insider, 1-27-12, “Newt Gingrich’s Fantasy Moon Base Is Illegal”, http://gizmodo.com/5879917/newt-gingrichs-fantasy-moon-base-is-illegal, ACC: 3.23.12, p. online
Not only is Newt's plan … to just about all of that.

US land appropriation must be the foundation of a new Nomos of the Earth where land appropriation and sovereign boundaries replace universal laws to create stable forms of enmity to limit war and prevent “just wars”
Theo Ballve, Contributing Editor to the North American Congress on Latin America, 5-13-11, “Nomos of the Earth, Review of Schmitt, Carl. 2006. The Nomos of the Earth in the International Law of the Jus Publicum Europaeum. New York: Telos Press Publishing”, Territorial Masquerades, http://territorialmasquerades.net/nomos-of-the-earth/, ACC: 3.20.12, p. online
Carl Schmitt’s Nomos of the Earth …people becomes spatially visible” (70).

Just war theory demonizes the enemy and makes war more violent
Gabriella Slomp, University of St. Andrews, 2006 “Carl Schmitt’s Five Arguments against the Idea of Just War,” Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Vol. 19, No 3, September 2006, pg. 437-438)
The second argument deployed by … one from following jus in bello.

Just war is the logic of civil wars, which necessarily result in wars of annihilation
Gabriella Slomp, University of St. Andrews, 2006 “Carl Schmitt’s Five Arguments against the Idea of Just War,” Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Vol. 19, No 3, September 2006, pg. 438-440)
Schmitt’s claim that the establishment … the historical reality of war’ (Luban 1980, 172).11

And enmity is necessary to define the self and prevent uncontrollable wars of annihilation, genocide, and unsurpassed violence on a global scale
Kenneth Reinhard, Professor at UCLA, 2004 “Towards a Political Theology of the Neighbor,” pg. 4-5, http://www.cjs.ucla.edu/Mellon/Towards_Political_Theology.pdf)
If the concept of the political is … because they would be identifiable” (PF 83).

Friend/Enemy distinctions are inevitable – it is only a question of stability
Emma R. Norman, University of the Americas Puebla, Mexico, Department of International Relations and Political Science, 2009, "Applying Carl Schmitt to Global Puzzles: Identity, Conflict and the Friend/Enemy Antithesis", http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1000&context=emma_norman, September 4, 2009)
The emphasis on the exclusive … Iraq to the war on terror."27

Only political questions matter – the State, specifically the sovereign, must outline sovereignty and national identity to establish a stable friend/enemy
Linda Bishai, Sr. Program official in the Education Program at the US Institute of Peace, and Andreas Behnke, Lecturer in the Dept of Politics and International Relations at the University of Reading, 2007, “War, violence, and the political,” The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, liberal war, and the crisis of global order. Pg. 109)
More precisely … identities become naturalized.

Sovereign ownership of the moon would violate the appropriation rule of the OST and undermine international law
Steven Freeland, Professor of International Law at the University of Western Sydney, Director of the Paris-based International Institute of Space Law, 1-30-12, “A US moon colony? Does Newt Gingrich’s idea have a legal basis?” The Conversation, http://theconversation.edu.au/a-us-moon-colony-does-newt-gingrichs-idea-have-a-legal-basis-5031, ACC: 3.23.12, p. online
The law of outer space …their respective sovereign territories.

A single action explicitly contradicting the OST would unravel the whole space legal regime
Ram Jakhu, Associate Professor, Institute of Air and Space Law, Faculty of Law, and Director of the
Center for the Study of Regulated Industries at McGill University, October 2005, “Legal Issues Relating to the Global Public Interest in Outer Space”, Paper prepared as part of the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program at the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland
In addition to Article 31(1) …space legal regime may collapse.

International space law that rejects sovereignty – especially the OST – creates confusion and instability for geospatial IPR protection since they preclude protection based on territoriality
Julie D. Cromer, Assistant Professor of Law, Thomas Jefferson School of Law, Winter 2006, “How on Earth Terrestrial Laws can Protect Geospatial Data”, Journal of Space Law, v32, n2, http://www.spacelaw.olemiss.edu/jsl/back-issues/jsl-32-2.html, ACC: 3.28.12, p. online
That authors will seek to protect … under their jurisdiction and control.""

Remote sensing is key to provide up to date information on isolated wetlands which are necessary for biodiversity
Robert C. Frohn, Professor of Geography @ the University of Cincinnati, owner/operator of Digital Earth Consultants, et. al., September 2009, Molly Reif, Charles Lane, and Brad Autrey, “Satellite remote sensing of isolated wetlands using object-oriented classification of LANDSAT-7 data”, Wetlands, v29, n3, pp. 931-941
Isolated wetlands are important … for mapping isolated wetlands.

Wetlands are key to biodiversity and the hydro cycle which is independently key to prevent extinction
Ramsar Convention, 1996, “Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, Wetlands and Biodiversity, Executive Summary”, http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm, ACC: 12.20.08, p. online
Wetlands - including (inter alia) rivers… such as forests and grasslands.

And US wetlands are vital
Patrick Comer, Chief Ecologist/Conservation Planner of NatureServe Western Regional Office and Director of the Terrestrial Ecology Department of NatureServe’s Science Division, 12-1-05, “Biodiversity Values of Geographically Isolated Wetlands in the United States”, http://www.natureserve.org/publications/isolatedwetlands.jsp, ACC: 2.3.09, p. online
Significant wetland diversity exists … plan for their conservation.

Geospatial satellite data – and future improvements – are key to management of US forests
Mark Nelson, Greg Liknes, and Charles Perry, all U.S. Forest Service, Northern Research Station, Forest Inventory and Analysis Program, October 21-23, 2008, “Combining Forest Inventory, Satellite Remote Sensing, and Geospatial Data for Mapping Forest Attributes of the Conterminous United States”, USDA Forest Service Proceedings – RMRS-P-56
The U.S. Department of Agriculture … provide the basis for this approach.

Independently forest management is key to prevent extinction
Linda Sauter, University of Washington Astrobiology Program, 4-17-06, “This Easter Island Earth”, http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_retrospection&task=detail&id=1930, ACC: 4.8.12, p. online
From the perspective of Astrobiology… a century or two at current rates.

US forests contain species vital to global diversity
Dr. Faith Thompson Campbell, Head of the Invasive Species Program for American Lands Alliance, and Scott E. Schlarbaum, James R. Cox Professor of Forest Genetics in the Department of Forestry, Wildlife and Fisheries at the Institute of Agriculture @ the University of Tennessee, Leader of the University of Tennessee's Tree Improvement Program, 2003, “Fading Forests II: Taking Away North America’s Natural Heritage”, http://fwf.ag.utk.edu/Schlarbaum/FadingForestsII.pdf, ACC: 2.9.06, p. 14
Forests cover approximately … cedar longhorned beetle (see Box 1).

Extinction results from species and habitat loss
Richard Tobin, Associate Professor of Political Science at SUNY-Buffalo, 1990, The Expendable Future: U.S. Politics and the Protection of Biological Diversity, p. 13-14
Every time a human contributes …. evaluate that response in the United States.

With the stroke of a pen Obama could issue an Executive Order that establishes a national space policy outlining US national interests in space
Adam Elkus, Analyst specializing in Foreign Policy and Security Studies and Associate Editor at Red Team Journal and Contributor to the ThreatsWatch project, October 2006, “America's Kingdom of Heaven; With the stroke of a pen, President Bush has declared outer space a US colony”, Peace Magazine, http://peacemagazine.org/archive/v23n1p06.htm, ACC: 3.26.12, p. online
On October 18, President George … one day be knocked out.

Executive orders can establish new space policies ordering moon missions
Joan Veon, Editor of UN Watch, Founding Member of The Women’s International Media Group, Inc, Covers UN and UN related Conferences credentialed thru USA Radio Network in Dallas, 7-26-06, “How Space Has Become Omnipresent and Sustainable Work in Progress”, http://www.newswithviews.com/Veon/joan38.htm, ACC: 3.26.12, p. online
On January 14, 2004… across the solar system.

Presidential actions alone can terminate American obligations to the Outer Space Treaty
Nikhil D. Cooper, Deputy Attorney General, California Department of Justice, Spring 2009, “Note: Circumventing non-appropriation: Law and development of United States space commerce”, Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, 36 Hastings Const. L.Q. 457
Generally, "When a fragmented … such an executive intent?

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]