===Inherency=== 
====Current funding for transportation infrastructure has alienated people with disabilities from society by robbing them of their mobility==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012 </span>(The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Congress is currently … has meant very uneven progress.</span>

====Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in universally designed transportation infrastructure in the United States.==== 
===Advantage 1: Automobility=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal spending associated with automobility is a form of segrega</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">t</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">ion that provides the mobile able body, we must strive for a reduction disparity in mobility</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Langan 1</span>, associate professor of English at the University of Californiaat Berkeley, in ‘1 [Celeste, “Mobility Disability” in Public Culture 13(3): 459–484]¶

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As Wasserman points … filmmaker Haskell Wexler.</span>

====United States automobility policies are modeled globally==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Springs 7 </span>[Mary Alice, School of humanities @ college of charlston “Inequity in transportation: The Problem with Auto Hegemony]

While problems with … toward auto hegemony.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Car culture results in millions of deaths and injuries per year: it ensures both the production of impairments and continued exclusion of people with disabilities, ensuring shorten life spans for countless individuals.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aldred and Woodcock 08</span>** [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, andCultural StudiesUniversity of East London and Department of Epidemiology and PopulationHealthLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ LocalEnvironment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 7-9; [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]

The case of transport.. sexism, and disablism.

====And, focus on accessible transit solves the ideology of disability reinforced by car culture.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aldred and Woodcock 08 </span>[Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, and Cultural Studies University of East London and Department of Epidemiology and Population Health London School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ Local Environment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 9-11 ; [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]

People with mobility…, or electric scooters.

===Adv 2: Stigma=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Current transportation infrastructure relies on segregated services for people with disabilities, enforcing a naturalized binary between abled and disabled stigmatizing these bodies with their association with second class services.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silvers 1996 (</span>Anita, professor and chair of the Philosophy Department, San Francisco State University, Disability, Discrimination, and Difference, pg 23-26)

A segregated system … to disability benefits.

====Segregated systems ensure that people with disabilities will remain invisible and excluded from political and public spaces of interaction. This creates a central dependency of people with disability on charitable welfare services while ensuring that their voices are never heard.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sinyo 2011 </span>(Josephine, first blind woman lawyer in Kenya. She is a trailblazer in politics for people with disabilities in Kenya, CHALLEGES OF DISABILITY, VISIBILITY, AS A HUMAN RIGHTS AGENDA A PAPER PRESENTED ON THE 8TH SEPTEMBER BY JOSEPHINE SINYO AT LELDEN NETHERLANDS. [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/57772810/Disability-Presentation-Josephine-Sinyo]] 2011)

The relative invisibility… footing with others.


====Exclusion of disabled bodies underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Siebers 2010 (</span>Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)

Disqualification as a …justifiable human inferiority.


===Adv 3: Justice=== 
====Current conceptions of disability and public policy ensure the production of a socially unjust order: focus on efficiency and utility ensure that people with disability remain incapable of participating in society.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bickenbach 2009 </span>(Jerome E. Professor of Philosophy and Law at Queen's University, Canada, and consultant for the World Health Organisation. “Disability, non-talent and distributive justice” in Arguing about Disability, eds. Kristjana Kristiansen, Simo Vehmas and Tom Shakespeare)

Thus, as Wasserman .. on the facts.


====Mobility is central to a spatial conception of justice that allows for full participation of all people, including people with disabilities, in social and political life.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pineda 8,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Victor, Ph.d at UCLA, expert in disability policy, planning and regional development, taught courses on Policy Evaluation, Community Development, and International Disability Rights, advised international agencies such as the World Bank and United Nations, as well as state and federal governments, in the development and implementation of programs and policies that include people with disabilities, joined the Dubai School of Government as a Visiting Fellow to study the implementation of the UAE Disability Act of 2006, worked as an associate with the U.S. Treasury, obtained degrees in Political Economy, Business Administration, and a Master’s in City and Regional Planning, awarded the Fulbright-Hays and Sheikh Qassemi Fellow at the Dubai School of Government, (Victor Santiago Pineda, “Enabling Justice: Spatializing Disability in the Built Environment” </span>[[http://berkeley.academia.edu/VictorSantiagoPineda/Papers/251651/Enabling_Justice_Spatializing_Disability_In_the_Built_Environment|__http://berkeley.academia.edu/VictorSantiagoPineda/Papers/251651/Enabling_Justice_Spatializing_Disability_In_the_Built_Environment__]]

My aim is … this in mind.

====The purpose of debate is deliberation over questions of justice. Any attempts to frame debate away from questions of justice and access to deliberative spaces are politically disabling and ensure a politics of futile confrontation as opposed to continual self-revisioning.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gooding-Williams 1998 </span>(Bob professor of political science, University of Chicago, “RACE, MULTICULTURALISM, AND DEMOCRACY” Constellations)

In the fourth … specifically, race-conscious.


===Solvency=== 
====Universal design is crucial for accessibility of transport.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Audirac in ‘8 </span>[Ivonne, Director-Program in City and Regional Planning. University of Texas-Arlington, “Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 23: 4]

Accessing Transit as … the norm (Ostroff 2001).

----
neg

CAP-T