[[toc]]
=SIGN IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY! http://www.debatersagainstsexism.org/= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Plano Senior 1AC=== 

I affirm: The United States ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens.
Ought implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality. States are distinct from individuals and as such have different moral standards. Professor Bruce Williams writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Williams, [Professor of Media Studies and Ph.D of Political Science at the University of Virginia], “State Morality in International Relations”, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb.,1923). RK</span>
From this viewpoint, the conduct of the state, in its external relations,
AND
degree of development, morality must, in fact, of necessity exist.
Because they are tools that are created for the sole purpose of protecting their citizens, states can never agree to any other system of moral norms. A state’s right to exist is founded upon the consent of its citizens, thus it has a moral obligation to uphold their interests. Philosopher John Locke explains:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John Locke, “Second Treatise On Government” (1685)</span>
If [a] man [person] in the state of Nature be so
AND
legislative and executive power as well as of the governments and societies themselves.
Therefore, the standard is upholding national interests. My thesis is granting due process rights to non-citizens accused of terrorism is key to protecting national security.
Contention 1: Denying due process rights harm American citizens because they are counterproductive to the war on terrorism in the long term. First, denying due process rights destroys international coalitions, which are vital to the US. Gerard Fogarty, Director General of the Australian Defence Force, writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gerard F. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Forgarty 05</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Director General, Workforce Planning and Retention, Australian Defence Force], “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?”, //Parameters//, August 2005. RFK</span>
The US strategy for winning the Global War on Terrorism is predicated on creating an
AND
—and in which direction—at this writing remains to be seen.
International cooperation is vital because since terrorism is a global threat, we rely on other countries for military assistance and intelligence. Unless the world is united against terrorism, the threat will always find a place to thrive.
AND- the practice of detention without trial harms our ability to prevent attacks and motivates terrorists. Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Roth 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [American attorney and has been the executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993],“After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention”, //Foreign Affairs//, the Council on Foreign Relations, May/June 2008. RFK</span>
Criminal prosecution of terrorism suspects is not a perfect system. Not all suspects can
AND
a terrorist"-- a "species of criminal guilty of multiple attempted murders."
AND- the absence of due process rights radicalizes terrorists. Professor Matthew Waxman writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew C. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Waxman 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009. RFK</span>
Historically, detention practices – especially those viewed as overbroad – have sometimes proven counterproductive
AND
cautions about similar risks in setting up detention systems in battling insurgencies.122
Finally- this links to the standard because effective counterterrorism is crucial to national security- terrorists can easily and have the motivation to cause mass civilian deaths. Wilkinson and Hartwig in 10:
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Wilkinson and Hartwig 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010, RFK. </span>
Despite the differing viewpoints, the overall consensus appears to be that ¶ terrorism risk
AND
and Afghanistan, with Thailand and ¶ Nepal showing higher levels of activity.
Contention 2: The United States can grant due process rights to terrorists at no harm to national security. Mark Kende, Professor of Constitutional Law at Georgetown University, writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Kende 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Dean‘s Visiting Scholar, Georgetown University Law Center (2010-2011). Professor of Law, James Madison Chair in Constitutional Law, Director of the Drake Constitutional Law Center.] “THE U.S. SUPREME COURT, THE WAR ON TERROR, AND THE NEED FOR THICK CONSTITUTIONAL REVIEW”, MISSISSIPPI LAW JOURNAL VOL. 80:4. RFK</span>
AND- federal courts solve international legitimacy and have been effective in the past. Joshua T. Bell, Special Agent with the US Naval Criminal Investigative Service, writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joshua T. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bell 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Special Agent with the United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in Washington, D.C.], “Trying Al Qaeda: Bringing Terrorists to Justice”, Perspectives on Terrorism, a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative, Vol. 4 No. 4, 2010. RFK</span>
Among the most prominent reasons why district courts are the best avenue for terrorist prosecution
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">obligations under international anti-terrorism conventions and protocols seriously. [20]</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Greenhill RR 1AC</span>=== 

Framework
Part 1- My Impacts Matter
Ought implies an obligation so I value consistency with obligations. THE STANDARD IS PROTECTING NATIONAL SECURITY.
First, states are not in a position to be subject to the same ethical standards as individuals.
George Kennan 85. [He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.]“Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2 1985. pp. 205-218 AG
Certain distinctions should be made before one wanders ¶ farther into this thicket of ¶
AND
it accept ¶ any moral reproach for acting on the basis of them.
Second, even if states have obligations not to violate side constraints, there is no act omission distinction for states.
Sunstein and Vermuele 05, Cass Sunstein [Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law at Harvard Law School] and Adrian Vermuele [Harvard professor of law], “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17.
The most fundamental point is that unlike individuals, governments always and necessarily face a
AND
a set of policy instruments that do not adequately or fully discourage it.
Third, status quo bias- any moral norms against preventing harm is just a psychological bias towards the current state of affairs.
Bostrom and Ord 06, Nick Bostrom [Swedish philosopher at the University of Oxford known for his work on existential risk and the anthropic principle. He holds a PhD from the London School of Economics] and Toby Ord [Professor of Philosophy University of Oxford], “The Reversal Test: Eliminating Status Quo Bias in Applied Ethics”, Ethics 116 (July 2006): 656–679. RFK
Changes from the status quo will typically involve both gains and losses, with the
AND
enhancements? If so, how can the bias be diagnosed and removed?
Fourth, cost-benefit analysis of national security is the only rational option available to policymakers.
Felix E. Oppenheim 87, [Retired political science professor at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst], “National Interest, Rationality, and Morality”, Political Theory , Vol. 15, No. 3 (Aug., 1987), pp. 369-389. RFK
The concept of practical necessity will be helpful to an understanding of international politics in
AND
because "departure from the rational model imperils the survival of the state."
And, ought implies can- if it is impossible for a table to perform an action, there cannot be a reason for a table to perform an action. If util is inevitable we ought to use it.
Terrorism Advantage
Part 2: The Terrorism Advantage
In the status quo, citizens are tried in Article III federal courts, but non-citizens are either detained indefinitely or tried at military commission where they don’t get a full set of due process rights--- that’s counterproductive and hurts counterterrorism.
A] Legitimacy- military commissions don’t provide sufficient due process rights and are viewed as illegitimate compared to federal courts.
John Ip 12, [Professor of Law at the University of Auckland], “Military Commissions and Discrimination Against Non-Citizens (March 19, 2012). THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PREJUDICE: INTERDISCIPLINARY PERSPECTIVES ON CONTEMPORARY ISSUES, Nova, 2012. RFK
Regardless of whether limiting the jurisdiction of military commission to non-citizens gives rise
AND
the judgment of history” (Glazier, 2008, p. 200).
AND- legitimacy is the most important factor in thwarting militants because it eradicates their popular support base- granting due process rights is key to solve
Lunday and Rishikof 08, KEVIN E. LUNDAY [Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard.] & HARVEY RISHIKOF [professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College], “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT”, CALIFORNIA WESTERN INTERNATIONAL LAW JOURNAL Vol. 39, 2008. RFK
Legitimacy of action is a vital strategic weapon against terrorism. Sovereign states within the
AND
detainees, and the writ of habeas corpus in the war against terrorism.
B] International Cooperation- the US relies on international cooperation to win the war on terror, but denying due process fosters anti-Americanism and destroys coalitions
McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. RFK
Because al Qaeda and its affiliates are a stateless transnational terror network, and terrorist
AND
proceedings are perfectly adequate (even exemplary) under our Constitution and laws.
AND- support of Muslim countries is critical to counterterrorism
Anthony H. Cordesman 10, [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy], “The True Lessons of Yemen ¶ and Detroit¶ How the US Must Expand and Redefine ¶ International Cooperation in Fighting ¶ Terrorism”, Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2010. RFK
The second answer is to put even more emphasis on international cooperation in ¶ counterterrorism
AND
our global economic and strategic interests would face ¶ far more serious threats.
C] Extremism- violating due process mobilizes terrorists and alienates sources of assistance
Matthew C. Waxman 09, [Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009. RFK
Historically, detention practices – especially those viewed as overbroad – have sometimes proven counterproductive
AND
cautions about similar risks in setting up detention systems in battling insurgencies.122
AND- Denying due process rights justifies political repression which increases extremism and violence
Abdulaziz Ayoub 12, [Assistant Professor of Education at Dhofar University], “Terrorism Prevention and Human Rights Violation”, Asian Transactions on Basic and Applied Sciences (ATBAS ISSN: 2221-4291) Volume 02 Issue 02, May 2012. RFK
In spite of all these efforts, it is obvious that the campaign against terrorism
AND
selfcontradictory, and, in the long run, selfdefeating” (27).
AND- the impact to terrorism is mass death
Wilkinson and Hartwig 10, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010, RFK.
Despite the differing viewpoints, the overall consensus appears to be that ¶ terrorism risk
AND
and Afghanistan, with Thailand and ¶ Nepal showing higher levels of activity.
AND- short term tactical counterterrorism is just a band-aid on the wound- the US MUST invest in long term strategies to effectively fight terrorism, so due process rights outweigh any disads
Anthony H. Cordesman 10, [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy], “The True Lessons of Yemen ¶ and Detroit¶ How the US Must Expand and Redefine ¶ International Cooperation in Fighting ¶ Terrorism”, Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2010. RFK
At the same time, the US needs to reconsider its own strategy and pay
AND
compensate for ineffective local governance and losing an ideological struggle dominated by religion.
Solvency
Part 3: Plan: The USFG ought to try all non-citizens accused of terrorism at domestic Article III courts and expand the federal district court system as necessary. Article III courts are where citizens accused of terrorism are tried in the status quo.
The most comprehensive analysis ever done of trying terrorists in Article III courts proves they’re effective and don’t harm national security.
Zabel and Benjamin 09, Richard B. Zabel and James J. Benjamin Jr., [partners in the New York office of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP., former Assistant United States Attorneys in the Southern District of New York], “Prosecuting Terrorism Cases in Federal Courts: 2009 Update and Recent Developments”, Human Rights First, July 2009. RFK
Because of the importance of resolving the question of when and how to try and
AND
has been and should continue to be an important tool in confronting terrorism.
Article III courts grant due process rights and preserve the rule of law, and have been effective in the past.
Joshua T. Bell 10 [Special Agent with the United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in Washington, D.C.], “Trying Al Qaeda: Bringing Terrorists to Justice”, Perspectives on Terrorism, a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative, Vol. 4 No. 4, 2010. RFK
Among the most prominent reasons why district courts are the best avenue for terrorist prosecution
AND
obligations under international anti-terrorism conventions and protocols seriously. [20]

===Bronx 1AC=== 
Part 1- The Framework
Ought implies a moral obligation so I value morality.
The standard is protecting national security.
First, states have an obligation to craft effective policies to prevent terrorism.
OCHR 08, [Office of the United Nations¶ High Commissioner for Human Rights], “Human Rights, Terrorism¶ and Counter-terrorism”, Fact Sheet no. 32, United Nations, Geneva, 2008. RFK
Terrorism aims at the very destruction of human rights, democracy and the¶ rule
AND
law, in particular international¶ human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.
Second, focusing only on good intentions without consideration of mechanism is politically irresponsible and allow for atrocities
Issac 02 (Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, “Ends, Means, and Politics”, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring)
Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power
AND
not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.
Third, we shouldn’t prefer ineffective counterterrorism policies just because they’re implemented in the status quo- any moral norms against preventing harm are just a psychological bias towards the current state of affairs.
Bostrom and Ord 06, Nick Bostrom [Swedish philosopher at the University of Oxford known for his work on existential risk and the anthropic principle. He holds a PhD from the London School of Economics] and Toby Ord [Professor of Philosophy University of Oxford], “The Reversal Test: Eliminating Status Quo Bias in Applied Ethics”, Ethics 116 (July 2006): 656–679. RFK
Changes from the status quo will typically involve both gains and losses, with the
AND
enhancements? If so, how can the bias be diagnosed and removed?
Part 2 is the terrorism advantage.
Any court that treats non-citizens differently from citizens racializes terrorism and makes it inevitable because it would only apply to foreign Muslim men, whereas citizens are tried in Article III federal courts- that erodes the rule of law and alienates Muslim populations
Sudha Setty 10, [Associate Professor of Law, Western New England College School of Law.], “Comparative Perspectives On Specialized Trials¶ For Terrorism”, MAINE LA W REVIEW Vol. 6. 2010. RFK
The current iteration of the military commission system in the United States ¶ shares many
AND
that differ ¶ significantly from the basic protections of the ordinary justice system.
AND- fairness is critical to counterterrorism- preserves international cooperation, prevents alienation, and decreases popular support for terrorists
David S. Kris 11, [Assistant Attorney General for National Security at the U.S. Department of Justice from March 2009 to March 2011. This article was written and submitted for publication when Mr. Kris was Assistant Attorney General.], “Law Enforcement as a Counterterrorism Tool”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY Vol. 5, 2011. RFK
More generally, we need to recognize the practical impact of our treatment of the
AND
hostilities, while we abandon those tools here in the United States.84
That has several implications towards preventing terrorism
A] POPULAR SUPPORT- terrorist organizations cannot exist without constant support from surrounding populations- doing the aff would erode that support base
Audrey Cronin 06, [Director of Studies of the Changing Character of War Program at Oxford Univer- sity. She is also on the university’s international relations faculty.], “How al-Qaida Ends¶ The Decline and Demise of Terrorist Groups”, International Security, Vol. 31, No. 1 (Summer 2006), pp. 7–48. RFK
Terrorist groups are strategic actors that usually deliberate about their targets and calculate the effects
AND
loss of local popular support for Chechen terrorist groups is a good example.
B] International cooperation- the US relies on international cooperation to capture terrorists and glean intelligence- further erosion of relations would gut our counterterrorism capabilities
David S. Kris 11, [Assistant Attorney General for National Security at the U.S. Department of Justice from March 2009 to March 2011. This article was written and submitted for publication when Mr. Kris was Assistant Attorney General.], “Law Enforcement as a Counterterrorism Tool”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY Vol. 5, 2011. RFK
Finally, the criminal justice system may help us obtain important cooperation from other countries
AND
be extradited because they do not face charges pending in the foreign nation.
C] Muslim countries- short term military counterterrorism is doomed to fail- we must invest in long term strategies and forge partnerships especially with Muslim states which means due process rights outweigh any disads
Anthony H. Cordesman 10, [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and is a national security analyst on a number of global conflicts.], “The True Lessons of Yemen ¶ and Detroit¶ How the US Must Expand and Redefine ¶ International Cooperation in Fighting ¶ Terrorism”, CSIS, 2010. RFK
At the same time, the US needs to reconsider its own strategy and pay
AND
reaches its crisis level – as has been the case in countries like Yemen
D] Political repression- denying due process rights justifies political repression which increases extremism and violence
Abdulaziz Ayoub 12, [Assistant Professor of Education at Dhofar University], “Terrorism Prevention and Human Rights Violation”, Asian Transactions on Basic and Applied Sciences (ATBAS ISSN: 2221-4291) Volume 02 Issue 02, May 2012. RFK
In spite of all these efforts, it is obvious that the campaign against terrorism
AND
selfcontradictory, and, in the long run, selfdefeating” (27).
AND- the impact to terrorism is mass death
Wilkinson and Hartwig 10, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010, RFK.
Despite the differing viewpoints, the overall consensus appears to be that ¶ terrorism risk
AND
and Afghanistan, with Thailand and ¶ Nepal showing higher levels of activity.
Part 3: The Advocacy- The USFG ought to extend to all non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections that they would be guaranteed at Article III federal courts.
The most comprehensive analysis ever done of trying terrorists in Article III courts proves they’re effective and don’t harm national security.
Zabel and Benjamin 09, Richard B. Zabel and James J. Benjamin Jr., [partners in the New York office of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP., former Assistant United States Attorneys in the Southern District of New York], “Prosecuting Terrorism Cases in Federal Courts: 2009 Update and Recent Developments”, Human Rights First, July 2009. RFK
Because of the importance of resolving the question of when and how to try and
AND
has been and should continue to be an important tool in confronting terrorism.
Article III courts grant due process rights and preserve the rule of law, and have been effective in the past.
Joshua T. Bell 10 [Special Agent with the United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in Washington, D.C.], “Trying Al Qaeda: Bringing Terrorists to Justice”, Perspectives on Terrorism, a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative, Vol. 4 No. 4, 2010. RFK
Among the most prominent reasons why district courts are the best avenue for terrorist prosecution
AND
obligations under international anti-terrorism conventions and protocols seriously. [20]


==Negative== 
===Targeted Killing DA=== 
I negate and value morality. States are distinct from individuals and as such have different moral standards. Professor Bruce Williams writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Williams, [Professor of Media Studies and Ph.D of Political Science at the University of Virginia], “State Morality in International Relations”, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb.,1923). RFK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From this viewpoint, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the conduct of the state</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in its external relations, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">degree of development, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">morality must</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in fact, of necessity exist</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
While individuals may be bound by certain moral constraints, states exist for different functions and have different obligations. States are obligated to protect national security for two reasons. First, because they are tools that are created for the sole purpose of protecting their citizens, states can never agree to any other system of moral norms. Professor George Kennan writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">George Kennan. [He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.]“Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2 1985. pp. 205-218 AG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First of all, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the conduct of diplomacy is the responsibility of governments. For </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">attempt to insert itself into the consciences of those whose interests it represents. </span>
Second, promoting the protection of rights respects the unconditional value of rational beings. David Cummisky explains:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kantian Consequentialism By David Cummiskey Published by Oxford University Press US, 1996 ISBN 0195094530, 9780195094534 192 pages</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In such a situation, what would a conscientious Kantian agent, an agent motivated </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, then equal consideration dictates that one may sacrifice some to save many.</span>
Thus, the standard is protecting national security.
My thesis and sole contention is that extending due process rights is a counterterrorism disaster because it would end drone strikes, which are key to national security.
A] __E__xtending due process rights to terrorists necessitates stopping drone strikes.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">W. Jason </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fisher 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Judicial Clerk to the Honorable James O. Browning, US District Court for New Mexico], “Targeted Killing, Norms, and International Law”, Journal of Transnational Law, 25. 2006-2007.</span>
**__Amnesty International, the UN Commssion on Human Rights, the UN Secretary General,__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Israel has yet satisfied the law enforcement principles of imminence and absolute necessity.</span>
B] Obama’s current drone strike policy is bringing terrorism to its knees- even bin Laden acknowledged they were a threat- and, strikes are becoming more effective and civilian casualties are decreasing significantly as we continue the program
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bergen 9/5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [CNN National Security Analyst],“Drone is Obama's weapon of choice”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/05/opinion/bergen-obama-drone/index.html]]. RFK</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Covert drone strikes are one of Obama's key national security policies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He has already </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">precision, foreign policy implications and the care taken to minimize noncombatant casualties."</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
AND- drone strikes solve terrorism in the long term by weakening terror organizations, generating demoralization, and eliminating key figures.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Statman 04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Professor of Philosophy at Haifa University], “Targeted Killing”, //Theoretical Inquiries in Law//, Vol 5 No. 1, January 2004, p. 191</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">First, </span>**__in the war against terror__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, just as in the war against the </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">will gradually make it more difficult for the terror machinery to function.19</span>

===<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Domestic Terror Court CP</span>=== 

1] Text: The United States federal government should establish an appropriate number of domestic terrorism courts to try non–citizens accused of terrorism.

2] Counterplan competes- we restrict due process rights to protect national security

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amos N. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guiora 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Guiora served in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the Israel Defense Forces where </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he held senior command positions related to the legal and policy aspects of operational counterterrorism.], “Creating a Domestic Terror Court”, Washburn Law Journal, 2009. RFK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The DTC itself will be a restructured Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">manner intended to benefit the defendant, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> precisely because he is absent.</span>

3] Net Benefits

__A] Caseload__- DTC prevents court clog which would overwhelm Article III courts



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amos N. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guiora 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Guiora served in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the Israel Defense Forces where </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he held senior command positions related to the legal and policy aspects of operational counterterrorism.], “Creating a Domestic Terror Court”, Washburn Law Journal, 2009. RFK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At present, </span>there are<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> approximately </span>25,000 detainees worldwide<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> held directly or </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Supreme Court President Aharon Barak’s comments </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regarding the price of logistics.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 30</span>

B] __Intelligence__- - the DTC protects intelligence sources and makes it easier to prosecute terrorists

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Amos N. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guiora 08</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, [Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Professor Guiora served in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the Israel Defense Forces where </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> he held senior command positions related to the legal and policy aspects of operational counterterrorism.] “MILITARY COMMISSIONS AND NATIONAL </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> SECURITY COURTS AFTER GUANTÁNAMO”, NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY LAW REVIEW COLLOQUY, 103:199 (2008). RFK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second possible alternative to the current system is trial in Article </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> III courts</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">taken to place limits </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the intelligence information received by the court.</span>

C] __Speedy trial and national security__- DTC better protects due process rights of terrorists

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amos N. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guiora 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Guiora served in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the Israel Defense Forces where </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he held senior command positions related to the legal and policy aspects of operational counterterrorism.], “Creating a Domestic Terror Court”, Washburn Law Journal, 2009. RFK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As mentioned above, this article assumes that both traditional </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Article III courts </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and international </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but cannot—</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> under any circumstances—be the sole basis of conviction.</span>

===Detention DA=== 
Granting due process rights deprives the government of its ability to detain terrorists indefinitely
David Cole 09, [Professor, Georgetown University Law Center], “Out of the Shadows: Preventive Detention,¶ Suspected Terrorists, and War”, CALIFORNIA LAW REVIEW Vol. 97, 2009 RFK
In recognition of the importance of checking the government’s detention ¶ power, the Constitution
AND
¶ provides that an arrest is not reasonable unless based on probable cause.
That’s probably bad for national security- we need to retain the ability to detain terrorists indefinitely because the standards for conviction are so high that dangerous terrorists would be let go
Jack Goldsmith 09, [Henry L. Shattuck Professor at Harvard Law School.],“Long-Term Terrorist Detention and Our National Security Court”, Series on Counterterrorism and American Statutory Law, a joint project of the Brookings Institution, the Georgetown University Law Center, and the Hoover Institution, 2009. RFK
These three concerns challenge the detention paradigm. They do nothing to eliminate the ¶
AND
the past; ¶ having government authorities that reflect that change makes sense.
AND- our inability to convict will only increase terrorism because it sends a weak message that galvanizes militant groups
McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. RFK
Terrorism prosecutions create the conditions for more terrorism. The treatment of a national security
AND
they encourage the notion that the nation may be attacked with relative impunity.
AND- detention allows us to obtain intelligence that is vital to preventing attacks
Gerard F. Forgarty 05, [Director General, Workforce Planning and Retention, Australian Defence Force], “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?”, Parameters, August 2005. RFK
The Administration believes that the interrogation of the detainees has improved the security of the
AND
these benefits are worth the costs that the detainee operations have also generated.

AND- the impact to terrorism is mass death
Wilkinson and Hartwig 10, Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010, RFK.
Despite the differing viewpoints, the overall consensus appears to be that ¶ terrorism risk
AND
and Afghanistan, with Thailand and ¶ Nepal showing higher levels of activity.

===Ethics K=== 
Grounding foreign policy in ethics replicates the danger that they criticize, and leads to a dangerous moral singularity
Mark F.N. Franke, 2k [European Journal of International Relations, 6.3) Refusing an Ethical Approach to World Politics in Favour of Political Ethics

It is perhaps already cliched to acknowledge that the practices of international politics and the
AND
central point in this respect is that an alternative outcome would be impossible.
AND- claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic ethical structure that makes warfare inevitable
Louiza Odysseus 03 (PhD International Relations) March 2003 “ Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf

A third objection, still, has to do with the imposition of particular kind
AND
to be fully and finally consumed without remainder’ (Rasch 2003: 137).
AND- the language of human rights in relation to terrorism is totalizing and replicates the harms it seeks to avoid
Conor Gearty 06, [Director of the Centre for Human Rights and Professor of Human Rights Law at the London School of Economics.],“Human rights in an age of counter-terrorism”, War on terror’¶ The Oxford Amnesty Lectures 2006, edited by Chris Miller, Manchester University Press, published 2009. RFK
In order to ensure its survival, the human rights idea needs to stand firmly
AND
felt within that community and the blanket suspicion can become self-fulfilling.
The Alternative Refuses the 1ACs Demand to Situate Politics In some Ethical Framework. We Ask You to Embrace a Capacity For Action Without Ground. This Avoids the Totalitarian Compulsion to Legislate a Harmonious Society into Existence
Dna Richard Villa 94, Prof. of Political Theory @ UC Santa Barbra, ’94 [Arendt and Heidegger: The Fate of The Political, p. 159-163]

As a political principle, then, authority conflicts with Arendt's basic convictions as to
AND
escape the complexity – and effort – of thinking and judging for ourselves.

===Agenda Ptx- FISA=== 
A. FISA is the ONLY major legislation that will pass – it has bipartisan support
Washington Times 9/13/12 (“FISA amendments should be extended; Hunting terrorists, protecting Americans,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)//
//While the upcoming election casts an unfortunate partisan tint on almost every issue, I//
//AND//
//this nation. We owe it to the American people to act quickly.//

//B. Political Capital is key//

//Washington Post 9/13/12¶ (“House votes to renew contested surveillance law,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)
The House of Representatives voted Wednesday to renew a contested surveillance law, moving it
AND
would really create a risk for our security if we lost this capability."

C. Plan Saps Capital- Republicans have a vested interest in preventing detention policy reform--- and it’s politically controversial in general
Walter E. Kuhn 12, [Minority Chief Counsel, United States Senate Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights], “The Terrorist Detention Review Reform Act: Detention Policy and Political Reality”, Seton Hall Legislative Journal: Vol. 35: Iss. 2, Article 1. 2-17-2012. RFK
Undoubtedly, for some in Congress, detention policy is worth more as a political
AND
and responsibility that comes therewith, while keeping a potent political issue alive.


D. FISA is key to prevent terrorism --- it allows law enforcement detect terrorist communications so we can intercept plots and prosecute terrorists-

Salon.com 08¶ (“FISA 101,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)
FISA was enacted in 1978 and updated multiple times since then to accommodate all the
AND
thundered about the grave seriousness -- and consequences -- of lying to Congress.

Outweighs the aff because none of their internal links matter if we don’t have intelligence to act on

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Glenbrooks 1AC Prelims - 1=== 
Part 1 is the framework: The resolution is a question of appropriate state action, so I value justice. States are contractual actors that are obligated to protect the rights of its citizens. This generates a right to a decent minimum of health care for several reasons.
A] National security- threats to health are more chronic and severe than military threats, which necessitates government intervention
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
Although the above points can be granted, a policy of health care can be
AND
to a threat more serious than is the military threat that prompts conscription.
In order for them to disprove this argument, they would have to claim that the state also does not have the obligation to use military force to protect national security, which is a pretty tough sell.
B] Liberty- even the most minimal conception of the state would grant a right to health because it is the prerequisite to expressing any other liberties.
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
More importantly, even in terms of the presuppositions of the Liberal theory a minimal
AND
to establish a protective agency to respond to life threatening disease and accidents.
C] Civil rights- states must continue to respect civil and political rights of citizens as part of the social contract so that state power doesn’t go unchecked- the right to health is an extension of these rights.
Tony Evans 02, [professor of global politics at the University of Southampton], “A human right to health?”, Third World Quarterly, Vol 23, No 2, pp 197–215, 2002. RFK
The basic rights analysis, on the other hand, offers a considerable challenge to
AND
socioeconomic rights, the actors responsible for¶ those acts can be identified.
Thus, states have the obligation to ensure a decent minimum of health care to citizens, so the standard is preserving health.
Part 2 is the insurance advantage- most Americans get coverage through either employer-based insurance or means-tested social security, but both systems are irreparably flawed and have terrible consequences
Fuchs and Emanuel 05, [Victor Fuchs is the Henry J. Kaiser Jr Professor Emeritus at Stanford University and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Ezekiel Emanuel is a chair of the Department of Clinical Bioethics, National Institutes of Health], "Health Care Reform: Why? What? When?", Health Affairs November 2005 vol. 24 no. 6, RFK.
The palpable symptoms of our “sick health care system” are described almost daily
AND
or a slowdown in spending growth, Medicare is headed for financial failure.
AND- current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens- the impact is thousands of deaths per year
David Morgan 12, [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80. RFK
More than 26,000 working-age adults die prematurely in the United States
AND
with the huge amount evidence we had at the time," Kellermann said.
AND- discriminatory government policies have led to severe racial, ethnic, and income disparities in healthcare access which generates a unique obligation to provide universal healthcare
CERD 08, [The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination], “Unequal Health Outcomes in the United States: racial and ethnic disparities in health care treatment and access,¶ the role of social and environmental determinants of health,¶ and the responsibility of the state”, A Report to the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination • January 2008. RFK
Ongoing government policy ¶ a. Retreat on monitoring and enforcement¶ of racial disparities
AND
programs, Medicaid and the State Children’s ¶ Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
Part 3- Solvency
I advocate the United States Federal Government will implement a Universal Health Care Voucher System that benefits all American citizens as described by Emanuel and Fuchs. The voucher system solves discrimination and phases out inefficient programs while maintaining the benefits of a competitive private sector.
Emanuel and Fuchs 07, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus], “A Comprehensive Cure:¶ Universal Health Care Vouchers”, The Brookings Institution, July 2007. RFK
Guaranteed health care for all Americans.¶ All U.S. residents would receive
AND
to sue, but only a small amount of insurance should¶ be necessary
AND- the aff significantly improves quality care by promoting innovation and removes insurance from occupational status, which also drives down taxes and increases wages
Emanuel and Fuchs 07, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus], “A Comprehensive Cure:¶ Universal Health Care Vouchers”, The Brookings Institution, July 2007. RFK
Improved Quality. The universal voucher system¶ would also improve quality and patient safety
AND
in productivity and not be held down by increases in health care premiums.
AND- the aff guarantees insurance at no net cost, saves billions in administrative inefficiencies, and controls future spending and incentivizes companies to invest in more beneficial research
Emanuel and Fuchs 05, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus] “It covers everyone. It cuts costs. It can get through Congress. Why Universal Health Care Vouchers is the next big idea.” Washington Monthly, June 2005. RFK
While this is a new tax, most Americans will end up paying the same
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">and redirect research toward drugs that offer clear benefits to the public health?¶</span>
===Glenbrooks 1AC Prelims - 2=== 
Part 1 is the framework:
The resolution is a question of appropriate state action, so I value justice. States exist as a result of a concession of absolute but unenforceable rights for limited but secure rights. This internally motivated system of mutual constraint generates a theory of ethics impervious to skepticism.
Celeste Friend 04, [Professor of Philosophy at Hamilton College], “Social Contract Theory”, Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.iep.utm.edu/soc-cont/#SH3b|http://www.iep.utm.edu/soc-cont/#SH3b]]</span>, 2004. RFK
In his 1986 book, Morals by Agreement, David Gauthier set out to
AND
are therefore created out of the rationality of exclusively self-interested agents.
This generates a right to a decent minimum of health care for several reasons.
A] Structural violence- in the US, we have the resources to easily prevent needless suffering--- failure to prevent denial to access based on discrimination is a violation of human rights
Jack Donnelly 94, Professor of International Relations and Political¶ Theory at the University of Denver Graduate School of International¶ Studies. "A Human Right to Health Care." Health Care Reform: A Human¶ Rights Approach, edited by Audrey R. Chapman, 1994. Georgetown¶ University Press. RFK
If health care does come to be seen as a human right rather than a
AND
¶ the case for a human right to health care is particularly strong.
B] National security- threats to health are more chronic and severe than military threats, which necessitates government intervention
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
Although the above points can be granted, a policy of health care can be
AND
to a threat more serious than is the military threat that prompts conscription.
In order for them to disprove this argument, they would have to claim that the state also does not have the obligation to use military force to protect national security, which is a pretty tough sell.
C] Liberty- even the most minimal conception of the state would grant a right to health because it is the prerequisite to expressing any other liberties.
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
More importantly, even in terms of the presuppositions of the Liberal theory a minimal
AND
to establish a protective agency to respond to life threatening disease and accidents.
D] Civil rights- states must continue to respect civil and political rights of citizens as part of the social contract so that state power doesn’t go unchecked- the right to health is an extension of these rights.
Tony Evans 02, [professor of global politics at the University of Southampton], “A human right to health?”, Third World Quarterly, Vol 23, No 2, pp 197–215, 2002. RFK
The basic rights analysis, on the other hand, offers a considerable challenge to
AND
socioeconomic rights, the actors responsible for¶ those acts can be identified.
Thus, states have the obligation to ensure a decent minimum of health care to citizens, so the standard is preserving health.
AND- you should prefer framework arguments specific to the government’s role in healthcare over abstract ethical theories--- philosophy removed from politics creates policy paralysis--- you should prefer arguments that proactively recommend actions over arguments that just undermine assumptions
Arras 10, John, [the Porterfield Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia], "Theory and Bioethics", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2010/entries/theory-bioethics/>.
Notwithstanding the many attractions of high theory as an intellectual pursuit, the heroic phase
AND
, and institutions should form the basis of practical ethics and social criticism.
Part 2 is the insurance advantage- most Americans get coverage through either employer-based insurance or means-tested social security, but both systems are irreparably flawed and have terrible consequences
Fuchs and Emanuel 05, [Victor Fuchs is the Henry J. Kaiser Jr Professor Emeritus at Stanford University and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Ezekiel Emanuel is a chair of the Department of Clinical Bioethics, National Institutes of Health], "Health Care Reform: Why? What? When?", Health Affairs November 2005 vol. 24 no. 6, RFK.
The palpable symptoms of our “sick health care system” are described almost daily
AND
or a slowdown in spending growth, Medicare is headed for financial failure.
AND- current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens- the impact is thousands of deaths per year
David Morgan 12, [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80. RFK
More than 26,000 working-age adults die prematurely in the United States
AND
with the huge amount evidence we had at the time," Kellermann said.
AND- discriminatory government policies have led to severe racial, ethnic, and income disparities in healthcare access which generates a unique obligation to provide universal healthcare
CERD 08, [The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination], “Unequal Health Outcomes in the United States: racial and ethnic disparities in health care treatment and access,¶ the role of social and environmental determinants of health,¶ and the responsibility of the state”, A Report to the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination • January 2008. RFK
Ongoing government policy ¶ a. Retreat on monitoring and enforcement¶ of racial disparities
AND
programs, Medicaid and the State Children’s ¶ Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
Part 3- Solvency
I advocate the United States Federal Government will implement a Universal Health Care Voucher System that benefits all American citizens as described by Emanuel and Fuchs. The voucher system solves discrimination and phases out inefficient programs while maintaining the benefits of a competitive private sector.
Emanuel and Fuchs 07, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus], “A Comprehensive Cure:¶ Universal Health Care Vouchers”, The Brookings Institution, July 2007. RFK
Guaranteed health care for all Americans.¶ All U.S. residents would receive
AND
to sue, but only a small amount of insurance should¶ be necessary
===Glenbrooks 1AC (Octas, Quarters)=== 
Part 1 is the framework:
The resolution is a question of appropriate state action, so I value justice. States exist as a result of a concession of absolute but unenforceable rights for limited but secure rights. This internally motivated system of mutual constraint generates a theory of ethics impervious to skepticism.
Celeste Friend 04, [Professor of Philosophy at Hamilton College], “Social Contract Theory”, Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.iep.utm.edu/soc-cont/#SH3b|http://www.iep.utm.edu/soc-cont/#SH3b]]</span>, 2004. RFK
In his 1986 book, Morals by Agreement, David Gauthier set out to
AND
are therefore created out of the rationality of exclusively self-interested agents.
The US is thus a contractual actor that is obligated to protect the rights of its citizens. This generates a right to a decent minimum of health care for several reasons.
A] National security- threats to health are more chronic and severe than military threats, which necessitates government intervention
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
Although the above points can be granted, a policy of health care can be
AND
to a threat more serious than is the military threat that prompts conscription.
AND- this generates a constitutional right under the duty to protect
Laura H. Kahn 11, [Kahn works on the research staff of Princeton University's Program on Science and Global Security. Her expertise is in public health, biodefense, and pandemics.], “Why isn't health care a US right?”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/laura-h-kahn/why-isnt-health-care-us-right. RFK
The argument against congressional power to mandate health care through the interstate Commerce Clause is
AND
the national defense. The federal government should be responsible for these services.
B] Liberty- even the most minimal conception of the state would grant a right to health because it is the prerequisite to expressing any other liberties.
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
More importantly, even in terms of the presuppositions of the Liberal theory a minimal
AND
to establish a protective agency to respond to life threatening disease and accidents.
C] Civil rights- states must continue to respect civil and political rights of citizens as part of the social contract so that state power doesn’t go unchecked- the right to health is an extension of these rights.
Tony Evans 02, [professor of global politics at the University of Southampton], “A human right to health?”, Third World Quarterly, Vol 23, No 2, pp 197–215, 2002. RFK
The basic rights analysis, on the other hand, offers a considerable challenge to
AND
socioeconomic rights, the actors responsible for¶ those acts can be identified.
Thus, states have the obligation to ensure a decent minimum of health care to citizens, so the standard is preserving health.
AND- you should prefer framework arguments specific to the government’s role in healthcare over abstract ethical theories--- philosophy removed from politics creates policy paralysis--- you should prefer arguments that proactively recommend actions over arguments that just undermine assumptions
Arras 10, John, [the Porterfield Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia], "Theory and Bioethics", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2010/entries/theory-bioethics/>.
Notwithstanding the many attractions of high theory as an intellectual pursuit, the heroic phase
AND
, and institutions should form the basis of practical ethics and social criticism.
Part 2 is the insurance advantage- most Americans get coverage through either employer-based insurance or means-tested social security, but both systems are irreparably flawed and have terrible consequences
Fuchs and Emanuel 05, [Victor Fuchs is the Henry J. Kaiser Jr Professor Emeritus at Stanford University and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Ezekiel Emanuel is a chair of the Department of Clinical Bioethics, National Institutes of Health], "Health Care Reform: Why? What? When?", Health Affairs November 2005 vol. 24 no. 6, RFK.
The palpable symptoms of our “sick health care system” are described almost daily
AND
or a slowdown in spending growth, Medicare is headed for financial failure.
AND- current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens- the impact is thousands of deaths per year
David Morgan 12, [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80. RFK
More than 26,000 working-age adults die prematurely in the United States
AND
with the huge amount evidence we had at the time," Kellermann said.
AND- discriminatory government policies have led to severe racial, ethnic, and income disparities in healthcare access which generates a unique obligation to provide universal healthcare
CERD 08, [The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination], “Unequal Health Outcomes in the United States: racial and ethnic disparities in health care treatment and access,¶ the role of social and environmental determinants of health,¶ and the responsibility of the state”, A Report to the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination • January 2008. RFK
Ongoing government policy ¶ a. Retreat on monitoring and enforcement¶ of racial disparities
AND
programs, Medicaid and the State Children’s ¶ Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
Part 3- Solvency
Text: Via amendment to the US Constitution, all citizens of the United States shall enjoy a right to health care of equal high quality. The United States will implement the Universal Health Care Voucher System for its citizens advocated by Ezekiel Emanuel and Victor Fuchs. The Congress shall have the power to implement, and enforce, this advocacy through all necessary legislative, and judicial processes. Affirmative speeches clarify intent.
AND- the Amendment is key to the moral, political, and economical welfare of Americans
Congressman Jesse L. Jackson 10, Jr. — [Representing the People of the 2nd District of Illinois], ¶ “A HEALTH CARE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT¶ ITS MEANING AND IMPLICATIONS”, 2010. RFK.
So how does one propose to provide every American with "equal protection under the
AND
now - will come running to the polls to join and support us.
AND- the voucher system solves discrimination and phases out inefficient programs while maintaining the benefits of a competitive private sector.
Emanuel and Fuchs 07, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus], “A Comprehensive Cure:¶ Universal Health Care Vouchers”, The Brookings Institution, July 2007. RFK
Guaranteed health care for all Americans.¶ All U.S. residents would receive
AND
to sue, but only a small amount of insurance should¶ be necessary
AND- the aff guarantees insurance at no net cost, saves billions in administrative inefficiencies, controls future spending, and incentivizes companies to invest in more beneficial research
Emanuel and Fuchs 05, [Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives and chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and Victor R. Fuchs, Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor of Health Economics at Stanford University, emeritus] “It covers everyone. It cuts costs. It can get through Congress. Why Universal Health Care Vouchers is the next big idea.” Washington Monthly, June 2005. RFK
While this is a new tax, most Americans will end up paying the same
AND
and redirect research toward drugs that offer clear benefits to the public health?¶
===Apple Valley 1AC=== 
V- Justice
States are contractual actors that are obligated to protect the rights of its citizens. This generates a right to a decent minimum of health care for several reasons.
A] Structural violence- states have the obligation to protect citizens against private violence- health care is denied to a subset of the population which directly leads to death
Jack Donnelly 94, [Professor of International Relations and Political Theory at the University of Denver Graduate School of International Studies], “A Human Right to Health Care”, Health Care Reform: A Human Rights Approach, edited by Audrey R. Chapman, 1994. Georgetown University Press. RFK
The right to life is usually conceptualized in the U.S. as a
AND
case in the United States today – we face a particularly objectionable violation.
B] National security- threats to health are more chronic and severe than military threats, which necessitates government intervention
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
Although the above points can be granted, a policy of health care can be
AND
to a threat more serious than is the military threat that prompts conscription.
C] Liberty- even the most minimal conception of the state would grant a right to health because it is the prerequisite to expressing any other liberties.
Gary E. Jones 83„The Right to Healthcare and the State‟, The Philosophical ¶ Quarterly vol 33 No 132 (Special Issue: Medicine and Ethics), 1983, pp279-287. DM
More importantly, even in terms of the presuppositions of the Liberal theory a minimal
AND
to establish a protective agency to respond to life threatening disease and accidents.
D] Civil rights- states must continue to respect civil and political rights of citizens as part of the social contract so that state power doesn’t go unchecked- the right to health is an extension of these rights.
Tony Evans 02, [professor of global politics at the University of Southampton], “A human right to health?”, Third World Quarterly, Vol 23, No 2, pp 197–215, 2002. RFK
The basic rights analysis, on the other hand, offers a considerable challenge to
AND
socioeconomic rights, the actors responsible for¶ those acts can be identified.
Thus, states have the obligation to ensure a decent minimum of health care to citizens, so the standard is preserving health.
Health Advantage
Contention 1: Only a universal health care system can efficiently provide access to all citizens
A] Un-insurance- current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens- that results in thousands of deaths per year
David Morgan 12, [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80. RFK
More than 26,000 working-age adults die prematurely in the United States
AND
with the huge amount evidence we had at the time," Kellermann said.
B] Vicious cycle- leaving things up to the free market will only result in a vicious cycle of rising costs and free-riding which will result in more and more uninsured citizens- only universal health care solves
Scott D. Litman 98, [Doctor], Spring, 1998, 7 Cornell J. L. & Pub. Pol'y 871, 24742 words, NOTE: HEALTH¶ CARE REFORM FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY: THE NEED FOR A¶ FEDERAL AND STATE PARTNERSHIP.
Such disquieting trends are the direct result of market failures that arise out of the
AND
further shift costs, forcing¶ insurance companies to restrict coverage ad infinitum.
C] Market failure- patients disadvantaged by market failures are those who need health care the most-
Maureen Lewis 06 [World Bank’s Research Department, and was previously the chief economist of Human Development during which she oversaw the economic and policy work of the World Bank in the area of human development, encompassing health, education, labor markets, pensions and welfare. She is an expert on the economics of health and health systems and has worked in more than 30 countries.] “Governance and Corruption in Public Health Care Systems” The Center For Global Development. Working Paper Number 78 January 2006.
Unlike other goods and services health care services embody some unique¶ characteristics stemming from
AND
same way that consumer behavior does, with similar implications¶ for payers.
D] The Affordable Care Act is insufficient - too many loopholes allow healthy people to avoid buying insurance which increases the cost of health care for those who need it- that renders the system in-viable
Peter Schiff 12, [American investment broker, author and financial commentator. Schiff is CEO and chief global strategist of Euro Pacific Capital Inc.], “Justice Roberts Is Right, Obamacare Won't Work”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2012/07/31/justice-roberts-is-right-obamacare-wont-work/2/. RFK
Now that the Supreme Court has given its narrow blessing to the Affordable Care Act
AND
a significantly weaker economy, diminished employment opportunities, and lower living standards.
Solvency
Contention 2: My advocacy is that the United States Federal Government ought to model the French health care system by reimbursing patients through a national insurance program funded by increasing payroll and income taxes. All citizens will be automatically enrolled with an insurance fund based on their occupational status, with special guarantees for severe or chronic illnesses. Citizens will have the freedom to purchase supplementary health insurance.
Public and private institutions will retain their status and payment will be made on a fee for service basis– that preserves the benefits of free choice and privatization while guaranteeing insurance- empirically proven in France.
Victor G. Rodwin 03, [Professor of Health Policy and Management Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service New York University], “The Health Care System Under French National Health Insurance: Lessons for Health Reform in the United States”, Am J Public Health. 2003 January; 93(1): 31–37. RFK
The French health care system combines universal coverage with a public–private mix of
AND
organization of health care services, cost sharing, and supplementary private insurance.
AND- the French health care system has literally been called “the best in the world”--- we get access to high quality health care for 100% of citizens
Joseph Shapiro 08, [NPR News Investigations correspondent.] “Health Care Lessons From France”, National Public Radio, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=92419273]]</span>, 2008. RFK
In 2000, health care experts for the World Health Organization tried to do a
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">mothers and their babies, home visits from nurses and subsidized day care.</span>
==Negative== 
===Big Pharma DA=== 

Universal health care drives down investment in pharmaceutical companies
Fazio 09, Managing Editor of the Northwestern Chronicle, Weekly Contributor to the D.C. Writeup, & Undegraduate at Northwestern University, 7-22-9 (Ryan, “Public Option Will Pull Plug on Medical Innovation,” D.C. Writeup
America, we often hear, is the last industrialized nation without a universal health
AND
, we should fight to kill the public option before it kills us.
AND- a free pharmaceutical industry is critical to preventing global disease outbreaks and bioterrorism
Bandow 05, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute & Former Special Assistant to President Reagan, 3-27-5 (Doug, “A strong pharmaceutical industry is the best defense against pandemics,” http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/200¶ 50327/news_lz1e27bandow.html)
Diseases like SARS and avian flu, which have proved resistant to drugs commonly used
AND
time those who benefit from industry research stopped treating drugmakers as the enemy.
AND- disease outbreak leads to mass death
Greger 06, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Socieity of the U.S. & graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine, 6 (Michael, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching, http://www.birdflubook.org/a.php?id=31)
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579 </span>

===Health Status Insurance CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should not guarantee universal health care to its citizens, implement or enforce the Affordable Care Act, enact any mandates for businesses to provide health care insurance to their employees, or expand eligibility for Medicaid or Medicare programs. The United State federal government should create a National Health Trust for the sole purpose of collecting information about insurance companies. The United States federal government should eliminate all tax and regulatory preferences for employer-provided group health insurance as well as regulations discouraging health care insurers from fully risk-rating premiums and freely adjusting insurance premiums. The United States federal government should provide health care vouchers to individuals whose income level is too low to afford healthcare as well as provide a one time lump-sum payment to an individuals health status insurance account to cover the costs of those individuals with pre-existing medical conditions that have made them uninsurable acquiring health care insurance.
Deregulating health care allows insurance companies to move towards health status insurance, which ensures long term access to care regardless of income or pre-existing conditions, creates effective cost containment, massively drives down costs, and spurs high quality care and innovation.
Cochrane 09, Finance Professor at University of Chicago & Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, 2-18-9 (John, “Health-Status Insurance: How Markets Can Provide Health Security,” Policy Analysis, Number 633, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-633.pdf)
Free and competitive markets are the best way to spur innovation, provide better service
AND
pooling program, even before we factor in cost savings from greater competition.
AND- the counterplan solves for those in poverty who can’t afford healthcare by providing vouchers
John H. Cochrane 12, [Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, Adjunct Scholar¶ of the Cato Institute, Senior Fellow of the Hoover institution and Research Associate of the NBER.], “After the ACA: Freeing the market for health care”, Expanded version of remarks given at the conference, “The Future of Health Care Reform in the United States,” at the University of Chicago Law School, October 12 2012. RFK
Let’s not confuse the issue with charity. The goal here is to fix health
AND
regulation minimally crafted to solve the problems of homeless people with heart attacks!
AND- here’s the net benefit- the counterplan solves the aff better than they do--- they try to fix the root causes of healthcare access- i.e. preexisting conditions- through more regulation, but only deregulation allows competition, drives down costs, and spurs innovation
Cochrane 09, Finance Professor at University of Chicago & Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, 2-18-9 (John, “Health-Status Insurance: How Markets Can Provide Health Security,” Policy Analysis, Number 633, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-633.pdf)
Most policy proposals aimed at providing better long-term health insurance try to further
AND
market with complete freedom and competition can also provide lifetime portable health insurance.

===Tax Credits CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should eliminate all tax and regulatory preferences for employer-provided group health insurance as well as regulations discouraging health care insurers from fully risk-rating premiums and freely adjusting insurance premiums. The United States federal government should establish a new system of refundable, advanceable tax credits for the uninsured. That ensures that individuals can afford health care in a privatized system while affording them individual choice
Owcharenko 02 [Senior Policy Analyst for health care, She has presented before numerous national, states and professional conferences, and has been published in noted publications, such as Health Affairs] Owcharenko served for nearly a decade on Capitol Hill focusing on health-care issues. “Why Expanding Medicaid to Cover the Uninsured Is Not the Solution,” pg online @ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/HealthCare/EM811.cfm]]</span> //ghs-ef)
A Healthier Alternative. Instead of forcing hard-working Americans into a substandard welfare
AND
credits as the President and a bipartisan group of congressional leaders have proposed.
AND- the CP solves the entire aff better- it’s more efficient, financially sustainable,
Nina Owcharenko 05, (Owcharenko is a Senior Policy Analyst for health care, She has presented before numerous national, states and professional conferences, and has been published in noted publications, such as Health Affairs, Owcharenko served for nearly a decade on Capitol Hill focusing on health-care issues.) “Health Care Tax Credits: Designing an Alternative to Employer-Based Coverage”, Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2005/11/health-care-tax-credits-designing-an-alternative-to-employer-based-coverage. RFK
Congress can address the distortions in the health care system and chip away at the
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">tax credit process must have effective outreach and be consumer friendly.[30]</span>

===Guaranteed Annual Income CP=== 
Text- the United States Federal Government should provide a guaranteed annual income to all persons below the poverty line based on a cost of living adjustment.
The counterplan is the only way to solve for health care access- income is the real root of the problem
Einer Elhuage 94, [Carroll and Milton petrie Professor of Law at Harvard Law School], “Allocating Health Care Morally”, California Law Review, Vol. 82, 1994. RFK
“The need for making tradeoffs is further understood by studies showing that income,
AND
are substitutes for healthcare, and at some point they are more effective.”
AND- experiments in the US and Canada prove the GAI is cost-effective with little adverse
Derek Hum and Wayne Simpson 93, [Derek Hum is a professor of Economics with the Faculty of Arts and Adjunct Professor with the Faculty of Management of the University of Manitoba], [Wayne Simpson is a professor of economics at the University of Manitoba], “Economic Response to a Guaranteed ¶ Annual Income: Experience from ¶ Canada and the United States”, Journal of Labor Economics, 1993. RFK
Canada and the United States have followed similar paths with respect ¶ to the guaranteed
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">decisions ¶ in the future, then it was likely a solid investment.</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===MBA 1AC=== 
I affirm. The resolution is a question of the ideal criminal justice system, so I value justice.
Standard : minimizing human rights violations.
1] JUSTIFICATION- every agent is entitled to justify his own way of life---human rights protect our ability to challenge norms that we don’t like.
Rainer Forst 12, [Professor of Political Theory at the Department for Social Sciences], "The Justification of Human Rights and the Basic Right to Justification. A Reflexive Approach; Rainer Forst." Philosophical Dimensions of Human Rights, Corradetti, Claudio (Ed). 2012. RFK
Human rights are essential and fundamental standards of the legitimacy of a social and ¶
AND
power, and human rights are a way ¶ to express that.¶ 94
2] VALUE TO LIFE- states should respect each individual’s ability to make their own life choices and pursue goals to the greatest extent possible
Tony Ward 09, [Professor of Clinical Psychology Victoria University of Wellington], "Dignity and Human Rights in Correctional Practice", European Journal of Probation, University of Bucharest, Vol. 1, No. 2, 2009. RFK
The question of how to justify human rights remains. In my view the most
AND
that is demeaning and dehumanising (Lazarus, 2004; Lippke, 2002).
My thesis is that we ought to value rehabilitation over retribution because rehabilitation better respects human rights.

Contention 1: Retribution violates human rights.
Subpoint A] Retribution is fundamentally incompatible with human rights because it prioritizes punishment over the psychological and social needs of offenders.
Tony Ward 09, [Professor of Psychology and Director of Clinical Training at Victoria University of Wellington], "Punishment and Correctional Practice: Ethical and Rehabilitation Implications", Policy Quarterly, Volume 5, Issue 2- May 2009. RFK
A major implication is that less attention is given to the ¶ question of how
AND
¶ psychological ones and any areas of psychological or social ¶ need overlooked.
AND- increased incarceration causes brutalization, overcrowding, psychological harm, and a prison subculture
Martin H. Pritikin 08, [Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997.], “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, 2008 Wis. L. Rev.. RFK
Some argue that while in prison, offenders learn from older or more experienced inmates
AND
research quantifying its role in criminality may feasibly be undertaken in the future.
AND- that links to human rights because since the state intentionally incarcerates offenders, it is responsible for harms other than the intended punishment- failure to do so is a proactive violation of human rights.
Edgardo Rotman 86, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.], “DO CRIMINAL OFFENDERS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO REHABILITATION?”, THE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW & CRIMINOLOGY Vol. 77, No. 4, 1986. RFK
A third source of the duty to rehabilitate springs from the very fact that the
AND
towards counteracting those effects. Such actions should consist largely of rehabilitative undertakings.
Subpoint B] Retribution has led to a spiral of incarceration that can’t achieve deterrence, increases recidivism, and leads to a debilitating cycle of crime.
John O. Haley 11, [Orthwein Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus, Washington ¶ University in St. Louis and Professor of Law, Vanderbilt University Law School.] “Introduction—Beyond Retribution: An Integrated Approach to Restorative Justice”, 36 Wash. U. J. L. & Pol’y 1 (2011),¶ http://digitalcommons.law.wustl.edu/wujlp/vol36/iss1/2. RFK
Today over two million persons are currently incarcerated in state ¶ or federal prisons in
AND
; we simply refuse to divert funds from retributive to ¶ restorative programs.
This violates the standard because unless offenders are empowered to become moral agents, they will violate the rights of other citizens.
Tony Ward 09, [Professor of Clinical Psychology Victoria University of Wellington], "Dignity and Human Rights in Correctional Practice", European Journal of Probation, University of Bucharest, Vol. 1, No. 2, 2009. RFK
Third, the two strands of the concept of dignity evident in my analysis have
AND
crime prevention and management with the community as well as the individual offender.
Contention 2: I advocate valuing a right-based model of rehabilitation over retribution. A rights-based model creates an immutable right to rehabilitation, rather than vacillating rehabilitative services. That spurs political leverage that will drive the criminal justice system away from retribution towards a constructive model with the dignity of prisoners as an overriding goal.
Edgardo Rotman 86, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.], “DO CRIMINAL OFFENDERS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO REHABILITATION?”, THE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW & CRIMINOLOGY Vol. 77, No. 4, 1986. RFK
The humanistic model of rehabilitation affirms the concept of prison inmates as possessors of rights
AND
It therefore replaces purely vindictive justice with a constructive approach of social reintegration.¶
Past models of rehabilitation failed because they still operated within a system where punishment and deterrence were the primary goal- the aff is more focused on the individual prisoner as a recipient, rather than on how larger society benefits.
Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK
In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral
AND
, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.
AND- a prison system founded upon rehabilitation is the only way to make prisons humane---embracing retributivism will only create an incentive to treat offenders cruelly.
Edward Rubin 03, [Professor of Law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School from 1998 to 2005], “Just Say No to Retribution”, Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper Series Research Paper No. 36, 2003. RFK
Rehabilitation is in fact the approach adopted by prison wardens and other correctional officials.
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">has contributed to a correctional policy that is the shame of our nation.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Emory 1AC</span>=== 

Part 1: The Framework

First, Emmons and Nutt in 95 define value:

Emmons and Nutt 95, David Emmons [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College, New Jersey], and Larry Nutt [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College], "Values education and the criminal justice curriculum", Journal of Criminal Justice Education, Volume 6, Issue 1, 1995. RFK

Values express preferable goals or states. They offer standards for selecting worthwhile behavior and

AND

the United States, where means are often valued as ends in themselves.

Moreover, because the resolution asks an “ought” question in the passive voice without specifying an agent, it is an evaluation of two possibilities, not a question of ethical obligations.

Finlay and Sendegar 12, Finlay, S. [Associate Professor of Philosophy at USC] & Snedegar, J. [PhD candidate in philosophy at the University of Southern California], (2012). One Ought Too Many. Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. JMN

‘Ought’ sentences seem ambiguous in a variety of ways. We can distinguish¶

AND

but reject the claim that the Uniformity Thesis cannot accommodate and explain them.

Both sides must defend a state of affairs as desirable. My burden is to show that a world in which rehabilitation is valued above retribution is better than the alternative. Conversely, the neg must defend a world in which rehabilitation is not valued above retribution and prove it is better than the aff.

Ethical theories about moral rightness and obligation are irrelevant and insufficient. The debate between deontology and consequentialism is about whether we are obligated to produce the best state of affairs. But the resolution is about which state of affairs is best, REGARDLESS of whether we are obligated to make it happen.

AND- our calculation of the best state of affairs should be informed by multiple different values and the details of each case.

Derek Parfit 86, [Emeritus Senior Research Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. He is also a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at New York University, Harvard University, and Rutgers University], Reasons and Persons, sec. 145. Oxford University Press. JMN

This is not just a conflict between different moral principles. We may have a

AND

believed, since they imply contradictions. One of these beliefs must go.

Part 2: The Retributive War

In a nation colored by the attacks on September 11th, we have developed a narrative of retribution that justifies a war on terror, a war on drugs, a war on crime.

Justin Paulson 05, [Professor of Sociology and Anthropology and the Institute of Political Economy at Carleton], "Crime and Warfare in the US: American Narratives of Violence, Terrorism, and Retribution", Cultural Logic: An Electronic Journal of Marxist Theory & Practice, 2005, Vol. 8. RFK

1. In the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center of September

AND

media and in the courts, more racial scapegoating, and more fear.

AND- retributive logic has created a self-generating class of permanently marginalized and degraded non-citizens- we use claims of morality to justify punishing offenders who committed evil without addressing the self-perpetuating social conditions that produced those offenders in the first place.

Sharon Dolovich 09, [Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law], "Foreward: Incarceration American-Style", Harvard Law & Policy Review, Vol. 3, 2009. RFK

As this brief sketch suggests, incarceration in the American prison is not a practice

AND

, self-directed and self- actualizing agents of our national narrative.

AND- any alternative that does not embrace reintegrating the disproportionately black population in our prisons systems legitimizes a modern version of slavery. The law is not colorblind—it enables treating black US citizens as disposable commodities for labor who were born guilty given the historical legacy of slavery that was imposed on them and their ancestors.

Brewer and Heitzeg 08, Rose M. Brewer [Professor of African American and African Studies Department on the Twin Cities campus, University of Minnesota], and Nancy A. Heitzeg [Professor of Sociology & Critical Studies of Race and Ethnicity at St. Catherine University], “The Racialization of Crime and Punishment : Criminal Justice, Color-Blind Racism, and the Political Economy of the Prison Industrial Complex”, American Behavioral Scientist 2008 51: 625. RFK

Following the end of legalized racial discrimination, there was an especially concerted effort to

AND

pedagogies for change that the current situation will be transformed for social justice.

AND- the state has a prima facie obligation to treat its citizens equally since we equally give up our rights--no serious ethical theory could justify racism.

Sam S. Souryal 11, [professor of Criminal Justice and Ethics at the College of Criminal Justice, Sam Houston State University], "Ethics in Criminal Justice: In Search of the Truth", Fifth Edition, Anderson Publishing, 2011 Elsevier Inc.

From the previous discussions, it becomes clear that racial discrimination is a complicated social

AND

and racial discrimination in the workplace only adds to the deteroration of productivity.

AND- this injustice also makes philosophical theories of retribution self-defeating---given a society with such racial and socioeconomic disparities, it is impossible for us to claim what individuals deserve.

Okeghene Odudu 03 [Deputy Director of the Centre for European Legal Studies at Cambridge University, Herchel Smith Lecturer and British Academy Mid-Career Fellow, “Retributivist Justice in an Unjust Society” Ratio Juris Vol. 16 No. 3 September 3003 (416-31)]. RFK

“[T]hose born into the social system at different positions, say in

AND

at one time he thought to be the only morally defensible theory.5

Part 3: Stop the War

However, I advocate embracing a rights-based rehabilitative ethic that focuses on reintegrating the offender back into society. This ethic affirms the individual against the state and solves conditions of social exclusion.

Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK

In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral

AND

, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.

AND- the rehabilitation model offers support in health, education, job training, and social learning which are crucial to fight the vicious cycle of racism and incarceration.

Adrienne Lyles-Chockley 09, [Ph.D., University of Colorado at Boulder], "Transitions to Justice: Prisoner Reentry as an Opportunity to Confront and Counteract Racism", Hastings Race and Poverty Law Journal, Vol. 6, 2009. RFK

In terms of damage to human capital during incarceration, evidence suggests that closely supervised

AND

specifically designed to remedy the socioeconomic obstacles of returning black ex-offenders.

AND- rehabilitation doesn’t require any change in prison sentencing---sentences can still be decided based upon proportionality to remain fair.

Edward Rubin 03, [Professor of Law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School from 1998 to 2005], “Just Say No to Retribution”, Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper Series Research Paper No. 36, 2003. RFK

Rehabilitation is in fact the approach adopted by prison wardens and other correctional officials.

AND

has contributed to a correctional policy that is the shame of our nation.

Bobo and Thompson in 06 conclude the aff:

Bobo and Thompson 06, Lawrence D. Bobo [W.E.B. Du Bois Professor of the Social Sciences at Harvard University], and Victor Thompson [There are a lot of professors named Victor Thompson. We aren't sure which one this is.], "Unfair by Design: The War on Drugs, Race, and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice System", Social Research, Vol. 73: No 2: Summer 2006. RFK

In this article, we sought to make both visible and problematic ¶ that set

AND

a further ¶ weakening of the legal system’s claim to fairness and legitimacy.
===Harvard RR 1AC=== 
The retribution model has been used to legitimize an insidious form of modern day slavery. Privileging rehabilitation is necessary to help excluded populations break out of the oppressive cycle, so I affirm.
Part 1: The Framework
The resolution asks us to weigh between the goals of rehabilitation and retribution and this comparison must be grounded in empirical reality, not abstract ideals that can’t apply to the world we live in.
Duff 08, Antony, [leading expert on the philosophy of punishment and is internationally recognized for his expertise in criminal law and its structure. He joined the Law School faculty at the Unviersity of Minnesota as a tenured professor in 2010 and is also a professor emeritus in the Department of Philosophy, University of Stirling, Stirling, Scotland] "Theories of Criminal Law", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2008/entries/criminal-law/>.
Philosophical theories of criminal law, whether analytical or normative, cannot subsist in isolation
AND
see e.g. Moore 1993; Green 2005; Gardner 2007).)
NEXT- Emmons and Nutt in 95 define value:
Emmons and Nutt 95, David Emmons [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College, New Jersey], and Larry Nutt [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College], "Values education and the criminal justice curriculum", Journal of Criminal Justice Education, Volume 6, Issue 1, 1995. RFK
Values express preferable goals or states. They offer standards for selecting worthwhile behavior and
AND
the United States, where means are often valued as ends in themselves.
Moreover, because the resolution asks an “ought” question in the passive voice without specifying an agent, it is an evaluation of two possibilities, not a question of ethical obligations.
Finlay and Sendegar 12, Finlay, S. [Associate Professor of Philosophy at USC] & Snedegar, J. [PhD candidate in philosophy at the University of Southern California], (2012). One Ought Too Many. Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. JMN
‘Ought’ sentences seem ambiguous in a variety of ways. We can distinguish¶
AND
but reject the claim that the Uniformity Thesis cannot accommodate and explain them.
This has three implications:
1] Both sides must defend a state of affairs as desirable.
2] Ethical theories about moral rightness and obligation are irrelevant and insufficient.
3] Truth-testing collapses to a comparison of worlds on this topic.
AND- our calculation of the best state of affairs should be informed by multiple different values and the details of each case.
Derek Parfit 86, [Emeritus Senior Research Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. He is also a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at New York University, Harvard University, and Rutgers University], Reasons and Persons, sec. 145. Oxford University Press. JMN
This is not just a conflict between different moral principles. We may have a
AND
believed, since they imply contradictions. One of these beliefs must go.
Part 2: The Retributive War
The ethic of retribution provides an absolute moral justification for a war waged on prisoners---we do not care about the criminogenic factors that produced the offender because they are evil so they deserve to be locked up---this quest for morality has created an accelerating loop of more vindictive justice, more lockups, more racial scapegoating, and more fear.
Craig Haney 12, [Professor of Psychology, University of California], "Politicizing Crime and Punishment: Redefining "Justice" to Fight the "War on Prisoners", West Virginia Law Review Vol. 114, 2012. RFK
A stark conclusion reached in the mid-1970s about the alleged failure of¶
AND
politicians to create a crowded, harsh, and often traumatic prison battleground.
AND- retributive logic has created a self-generating class of permanently marginalized and degraded non-citizens- we use claims of morality to justify keeping the black population under control.
Sharon Dolovich 09, [Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law], "Foreward: Incarceration American-Style", Harvard Law & Policy Review, Vol. 3, 2009. RFK
As this brief sketch suggests, incarceration in the American prison is not a practice
AND
, self-directed and self- actualizing agents of our national narrative.
AND- any approach that does not embrace reintegrating the disproportionately black population in our prisons systems legitimizes a modern version of slavery---the law is not colorblind---it enables treating black US citizens as disposable commodities for labor who were born guilty given the historical legacy of slavery that was imposed on them and their ancestors.
Brewer and Heitzeg 08, Rose M. Brewer [Professor of African American and African Studies Department on the Twin Cities campus, University of Minnesota], and Nancy A. Heitzeg [Professor of Sociology & Critical Studies of Race and Ethnicity at St. Catherine University], “The Racialization of Crime and Punishment : Criminal Justice, Color-Blind Racism, and the Political Economy of the Prison Industrial Complex”, American Behavioral Scientist 2008 51: 625. RFK
Following the end of legalized racial discrimination, there was an especially concerted effort to
AND
pedagogies for change that the current situation will be transformed for social justice.
AND- the war on crime is a front for a growing prison industrial complex that feeds itself by oppressing entire classes---this makes philosophical theories of retribution impossible to apply to reality
Jason L. Mallory 06, [Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Brooklyn College], "Globalization, Prisons, and the Philosophy of Punishment", Women's Studies, 35:529-543, 2006. RFK
The Global Implications of U.S. Penological Policies¶ Two million people are
AND
arguments for punishment, especially those based upon social contract theory and utility.
AND- the state has a prima facie obligation to treat its citizens equally since we equally give up our rights--no serious ethical theory could justify racism.
Sam S. Souryal 11, [professor of Criminal Justice and Ethics at the College of Criminal Justice, Sam Houston State University], "Ethics in Criminal Justice: In Search of the Truth", Fifth Edition, Anderson Publishing, 2011 Elsevier Inc.
From the previous discussions, it becomes clear that racial discrimination is a complicated social
AND
and racial discrimination in the workplace only adds to the deteroration of productivity.
Part 3: Stop the War
We must reject the retributive ethic---capitalist incentives will only perpetuate policies that keep the black population subjugated---the criminal justice system needs to reorient towards a rehabilitative ethic that empowers offenders instead of enslaving them
Paul Street 01, [Journalist, Director of Research at the Chicago Urban League, member of the International Organization for a Participatory Society, doctorate in U.S. History from Binghampton University], "Color Blind: Prisons and the New American Racism", Dissent, Summer 2001. RFK
The situation arising from mass black incarceration is fraught with self-fulfilling policy ironies
AND
worthy target for creative democratic protest and policy formation in the new millennium.
AND- alarmism about rehabilitation is false and based on outdated models that still operated within the prison industrial complex---we should embrace the rights-based ethic that affirms the individual against the state and solves conditions of social exclusion.
Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK
In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">NDCA 1AC</span>=== 

Framework

The retribution model has been used to legitimize an insidious form of modern day slavery. Privileging rehabilitation is necessary to help excluded populations break out of the oppressive cycle, so I affirm.

Part 1: The Framework

First, Emmons and Nutt in 95 define value:

Emmons and Nutt 95, David Emmons [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College, New Jersey], and Larry Nutt [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College], "Values education and the criminal justice curriculum", Journal of Criminal Justice Education, Volume 6, Issue 1, 1995. RFK

Values express preferable goals or states. They offer standards for selecting worthwhile behavior and

AND

the United States, where means are often valued as ends in themselves.

Moreover, because the resolution asks an “ought” question in the passive voice without specifying an agent, it is an evaluation of two possibilities, not a question of ethical obligations.

Finlay and Sendegar 12, Finlay, S. [Associate Professor of Philosophy at USC] & Snedegar, J. [PhD candidate in philosophy at the University of Southern California], (2012). One Ought Too Many. Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. JMN

‘Ought’ sentences seem ambiguous in a variety of ways. We can distinguish¶

AND

but reject the claim that the Uniformity Thesis cannot accommodate and explain them.

This means that my burden is to show that a world in which rehabilitation is valued above retribution is better than the alternative. The neg must defend a world in which our criminal justice system does not value rehabilitation over retribution. So, this resolution is about how theories of punishment translate into reality.

AND- our calculation of the best state of affairs should be informed by multiple different values and the details of each case.

Derek Parfit 86, [Emeritus Senior Research Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. He is also a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at New York University, Harvard University, and Rutgers University], Reasons and Persons, sec. 145. Oxford University Press. JMN

This is not just a conflict between different moral principles. We may have a

AND

believed, since they imply contradictions. One of these beliefs must go.

Retribution Bad

Part 2: Modern-Day Slavery

The Appeal for Retribution is the Rationalization for shackling minority populations---we do not care about the criminogenic factors that produced the offender because they are evil so they deserve to be locked up---this quest for morality has created an accelerating loop of more vindictive justice, more lockups, and more racial scapegoating.

Craig Haney 12, [Professor of Psychology, University of California], "Politicizing Crime and Punishment: Redefining "Justice" to Fight the "War on Prisoners", West Virginia Law Review Vol. 114, 2012. RFK

A stark conclusion reached in the mid-1970s about the alleged failure of¶

AND

politicians to create a crowded, harsh, and often traumatic prison battleground.

AND--- retributive logic has created a self-generating class of permanently marginalized and degraded non-citizens- we use claims of morality to justify keeping minority populations under control.

Sharon Dolovich 09, [Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law], "Foreward: Incarceration American-Style", Harvard Law & Policy Review, Vol. 3, 2009. RFK

As this brief sketch suggests, incarceration in the American prison is not a practice

AND

, self-directed and self- actualizing agents of our national narrative.

AND---- any approach that does not embrace reintegrating the disproportionately black population in our prisons systems legitimizes a modern version of slavery---the law is not colorblind---it enables treating black US citizens as disposable commodities for labor who were born guilty given the historical legacy of slavery.

Brewer and Heitzeg 08, Rose M. Brewer [Professor of African American and African Studies Department on the Twin Cities campus, University of Minnesota], and Nancy A. Heitzeg [Professor of Sociology & Critical Studies of Race and Ethnicity at St. Catherine University], “The Racialization of Crime and Punishment : Criminal Justice, Color-Blind Racism, and the Political Economy of the Prison Industrial Complex”, American Behavioral Scientist 2008 51: 625. RFK

Following the end of legalized racial discrimination, there was an especially concerted effort to

AND

pedagogies for change that the current situation will be transformed for social justice.

AND---retribution must be rejected because it’s nonsensical in a world of severe social disparities

Robert Weisberg 12, [Edwini E. Huddleston, Jr., Professor of law, Stanford University; Director, Stanford Criminal Justice Center], "Barrock Lecture: reality-Challenged Philosophies of Punishment", revised and extended version of teh George and Martha Barrock Lecture on Reality-Challenged Philosophies of Punishment, Marquette Law Review, Vlume 95, Issue 4, Summer 2012. RFK

The attacks on retributivism for the alleged incoherence of its own ¶ internal logic are

AND

justice misses the ¶ point that the work of Western and others teach.

AND--- any attempt to rationalize ideologies that serve to whitewash racist assumptions enables the hatred and ignorance that stems from racism---no serious ethical theory could justify it

Sam S. Souryal 11, [professor of Criminal Justice and Ethics at the College of Criminal Justice, Sam Houston State University], "Ethics in Criminal Justice: In Search of the Truth", Fifth Edition, Anderson Publishing, 2011 Elsevier Inc.

From the previous discussions, it becomes clear that racial discrimination is a complicated social

AND

and racial discrimination in the workplace only adds to the deteroration of productivity.

Rehab Good/Solvency

Part 3: Unchain Django

Embracing the model of rehabilitation treats the individual as inherently valuable---the vision of prisoners returning to society liberates us from the slavery state. We must reject the retributive ethic---capitalist incentives will only perpetuate policies that keep minority populations subjugated.

Paul Street 01, [Journalist, Director of Research at the Chicago Urban League, member of the International Organization for a Participatory Society, doctorate in U.S. History from Binghampton University], "Color Blind: Prisons and the New American Racism", Dissent, Summer 2001. RFK

The situation arising from mass black incarceration is fraught with self-fulfilling policy ironies

AND

worthy target for creative democratic protest and policy formation in the new millennium.

AND- alarmism about rehabilitation is false and based on outdated models that still operated within the prison industrial complex---we should embrace the rights-based ethic that affirms the individual against the state and solves conditions of social exclusion.

Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK

In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral

AND

, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.

Bobo and Thompson in 06 conclude the aff:

Bobo and Thompson 06, Lawrence D. Bobo [W.E.B. Du Bois Professor of the Social Sciences at Harvard University], and Victor Thompson [There are a lot of professors named Victor Thompson. We aren't sure which one this is.], "Unfair by Design: The War on Drugs, Race, and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice System", Social Research, Vol. 73: No 2: Summer 2006. RFK

In this article, we sought to make both visible and problematic ¶ that set

AND

a further ¶ weakening of the legal system’s claim to fairness and legitimacy.
===TOC 1AC (Race)=== 
Part 1: The Framework
First, different values in the CJS leads to a different set of policies:
Emmons and Nutt 95, David Emmons [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College, New Jersey], and Larry Nutt [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College], "Values education and the criminal justice curriculum", Journal of Criminal Justice Education, Volume 6, Issue 1, 1995. RFK
Values express preferable goals or states. They offer standards for selecting worthwhile behavior and
AND
the United States, where means are often valued as ends in themselves.
Moreover, because the resolution asks an “ought” question in the passive voice without specifying an agent, it is an evaluation of two possibilities.
Finlay and Sendegar 12, Finlay, S. [Associate Professor of Philosophy at USC] & Snedegar, J. [PhD candidate in philosophy at the University of Southern California], (2012). One Ought Too Many. Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. JMN
‘Ought’ sentences seem ambiguous in a variety of ways. We can distinguish¶
AND
but reject the claim that the Uniformity Thesis cannot accommodate and explain them.
This means that both sides must defend a state of affairs as desirable. Truth-testing collapses to a comparison of worlds on this topic since proving the resolution true JUST IS proving a better world, your ballot goes to the better state of affairs under either paradigm.
AND- our calculation of the best state of affairs should be informed by multiple different values and the details of each case.
Derek Parfit 86, [Emeritus Senior Research Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. He is also a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at New York University, Harvard University, and Rutgers University], Reasons and Persons, sec. 145. Oxford University Press. JMN
This is not just a conflict between different moral principles. We may have a
AND
believed, since they imply contradictions. One of these beliefs must go.


Part 2: Modern-Day Slavery
The Appeal for Retribution is the Rationalization for shackling minority populations---Valuing retribution has provided an absolute moral justification for a war waged on prisoners that has created an accelerating loop of more vindictive justice and more racial scapegoating.
Craig Haney 12, [Professor of Psychology, University of California], "Politicizing Crime and Punishment: Redefining "Justice" to Fight the "War on Prisoners", West Virginia Law Review Vol. 114, 2012. RFK
A stark conclusion reached in the mid-1970s about the alleged failure of¶
AND
politicians to create a crowded, harsh, and often traumatic prison battleground.
AND--- retributive logic has created a self-generating class of permanently marginalized and degraded non-citizens- we use claims of morality to justify keeping minority populations under control.
Sharon Dolovich 09, [Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law], "Foreward: Incarceration American-Style", Harvard Law & Policy Review, Vol. 3, 2009. RFK
As this brief sketch suggests, incarceration in the American prison is not a practice
AND
, self-directed and self- actualizing agents of our national narrative.
AND--- any approach that does not embrace reintegrating the disproportionately black population in our prisons systems legitimizes a modern version of slavery---the law is not colorblind---it enables treating black US citizens as disposable commodities for labor who were born guilty given the historical legacy of slavery.
Brewer and Heitzeg 08, Rose M. Brewer [Professor of African American and African Studies Department on the Twin Cities campus, University of Minnesota], and Nancy A. Heitzeg [Professor of Sociology & Critical Studies of Race and Ethnicity at St. Catherine University], “The Racialization of Crime and Punishment : Criminal Justice, Color-Blind Racism, and the Political Economy of the Prison Industrial Complex”, American Behavioral Scientist 2008 51: 625. RFK
Following the end of legalized racial discrimination, there was an especially concerted effort to
AND
pedagogies for change that the current situation will be transformed for social justice.
AND--- retribution is impossible because our perceptions of culpability will always be colored by race which has justified the intergenerational oppression of not just blacks but other minorities
Angela Davis 98, [American political activist, scholar, and author; retired professor with the History of Consciousness Department at the University of California and the former director of the university's Feminist Studies department], "Masked Racism: Reflections on the Prison Industrial Complex", Colorlines, 1998. RFK
Imprisonment has become the response of first resort to far too many of the social
AND
resistance to the prison industrial complex into a powerful movement for social transformation.
AND--- Retribution Should Be Rejected---the legacy of blaming and otherizing is both philosophically nonsensical and has produced a permanent underclass of criminals.
Robert Weisberg 12, [Edwini E. Huddleston, Jr., Professor of law, Stanford University; Director, Stanford Criminal Justice Center], "Barrock Lecture: reality-Challenged Philosophies of Punishment", revised and extended version of teh George and Martha Barrock Lecture on Reality-Challenged Philosophies of Punishment, Marquette Law Review, Vlume 95, Issue 4, Summer 2012. RFK
The attacks on retributivism for the alleged incoherence of its own ¶ internal logic are
AND
justice misses the ¶ point that the work of Western and others teach.
AND--- any attempt to rationalize ideologies that serve to whitewash racist assumptions enables hatred and ignorance ---no serious ethical theory could justify it
Sam S. Souryal 11, [professor of Criminal Justice and Ethics at the College of Criminal Justice, Sam Houston State University], "Ethics in Criminal Justice: In Search of the Truth", Fifth Edition, Anderson Publishing, 2011 Elsevier Inc.
From the previous discussions, it becomes clear that racial discrimination is a complicated social
AND
and racial discrimination in the workplace only adds to the deteroration of productivity.
AND---you cannot detach the resolution from its history---our ethics must be informed by the injustice of empirical institutions, not ideal mandates, because the assumptions behind purely rational theories defy reality
Dr. Tommy J. Curry 13, [Assistant Professor, Department of Philosophy, Texas A&M], "In the Fiat of Dreams: The Delusional Allure of Hope, the Reality of Anti-Black Violence and the Demands of the Anti-Ethical", 2013. RFK
Despite the rhetorical strategies adopted by both Black and white political theorists which urge Blacks
AND
our ethics become nothing more than the apologetics of our¶ tyrannical epoch.
Part 3: Embracing the model of rehabilitation treats the individual as inherently valuable---the vision of prisoners returning to society liberates us from the slavery state. We must reject the retributive ethic.
Paul Street 01, [Journalist, Director of Research at the Chicago Urban League, member of the International Organization for a Participatory Society, doctorate in U.S. History from Binghampton University], "Color Blind: Prisons and the New American Racism", Dissent, Summer 2001. RFK
The situation arising from mass black incarceration is fraught with self-fulfilling policy ironies
AND
worthy target for creative democratic protest and policy formation in the new millennium.
AND- alarmism about rehabilitation is false and based on outdated models that still operated within the prison industrial complex---we should embrace the rights-based ethic that affirms the individual against the state
Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK
In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral
AND
, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.
AND- all solvency deficits assume a model of rehabilitation that had been co-opted by the prison industrial complex so they don’t apply---that is just uniqueness for the aff---retribution taints all attempts so we MUST give sincere rehabilitation a try
Loic Wacquant 10, [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Earl Warren Legal Institute, University of California, Berkeley, Program in Medical Anthropology and the Center for Urban Ethnography, Researcher at the 'Centre de sociologie europeene' in Paris], "Prisoner reentry as myth and ceremony", Dialect Anthropol (2010), 34:605-620. RFK
The penitentiary has returned to the institutional forefront of the advanced societies,¶ not because
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">short, prisoner reentry is not an¶ industry but a bureaucratic charade.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">TOC 1AC (Cycles of Violence)</span>=== 

Part 1: The Framework

First, different values in the criminal justice system lead to different policies.

Emmons and Nutt 95, David Emmons [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College, New Jersey], and Larry Nutt [Professor of Criminal Justice, Richard Stockton College], "Values education and the criminal justice curriculum", Journal of Criminal Justice Education, Volume 6, Issue 1, 1995. RFK

Values express preferable goals or states. They offer standards for selecting worthwhile behavior and

AND

the United States, where means are often valued as ends in themselves.

Next, because the resolution asks an “ought” question in the passive voice without specifying an agent, it is an evaluation of two possibilities. 

Finlay and Sendegar 12, Finlay, S. [Associate Professor of Philosophy at USC] & Snedegar, J. [PhD candidate in philosophy at the University of Southern California], (2012). One Ought Too Many. Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. JMN

‘Ought’ sentences seem ambiguous in a variety of ways. We can distinguish¶

AND

but reject the claim that the Uniformity Thesis cannot accommodate and explain them.

This means that both sides must defend a state of affairs as desirable. Truth-testing collapses to a comparison of worlds on this topic. Proving the resolution true JUST IS proving a better world, so under any paradigm, your ballot goes to the better state of affairs. 

AND- discounting impacts just because they don’t link to a standard is exclusionary and ignorant---the only reason why LD judges thinks standards are so important is because they were taught that way---you should prefer an inclusive standard because openness to different sources of value in society resists oppression

Hoy 05, David Couzens (Distinguished Professor of Philosophy, University of California Santa Cruz). (2005). Critical Resistance. Bradford Book. JMN

The first problem arises because of the pluralism that some of Nietzsche’s French interpreters (

AND

, so let me now turn to the question of why anything matters.

Part 2: The War on Everything

The zeal for retribution cements a link between how our society treats prisoners and how our society conducts foreign policy. The desire to punish demonizes and constructs prisoners as the "Other."

Craig Haney 12, [Professor of Psychology, University of California], "Politicizing Crime and Punishment: Redefining "Justice" to Fight the "War on Prisoners", West Virginia Law Review Vol. 114, 2012. RFK

A stark conclusion reached in the mid-1970s about the alleged failure of¶

AND

politicians to create a crowded, harsh, and often traumatic prison battleground.

AND--- the post-9/11 role of Big Government has taken on the role as guardian of national security and militarization which has resulted in the promotion of the prison industrial complex at the expense of social welfare programs.

Henry A. Giroux 03, [Director of the Waterbury Forum in Education and Cultural Studies at Pennsylvania State University; lectures widely on a variety of cultural, social, and educational issues in the United States and abroad], "Zero Tolerance, Domestic Militarization, and the War Against Youth", Social Justice, Vol. 30, No. 2 (92), War, Dissent, and Justice: A Dialogue (2003), pp. 59-65. RFK

I WISH TO ARGUE THAT AS THE STATE IS HOLLOWED OUT AND SHIFTS ITS EMPHASIS

AND

to national security, ¶ but also the very promise of democracy itself.

AND---crime rhetoric and war-mongering are in a symbiotic relationship with one another---the rationale of retribution produces an Us-Them dichotomy in both our prison system and in foreign policy.

Justin Paulson 05, [Professor of Sociology and Anthropology and the Institute of Political Economy at Carleton], "Crime and Warfare in the US: American Narratives of Violence, Terrorism, and Retribution", Cultural Logic: An Electronic Journal of Marxist Theory & Practice, 2005, Vol. 8. RFK

In the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center of September 11th,

AND

getting the nation out of a permanent state of domestic and international war.

AND--- the gross social inequalities, the imposition of absolute moral truths of innocence and dessert, and the narrative of victimization created by retribution combined with American supremacy have culminated in a state of paranoia ---fear of the Other only creates more enemies and then more violence in return---over and over and over again

Dr Simon Clarke and Hoggett 04, [Centre for Psycho-Social Studies Faculty of Humanities, Language and Social Science Unviersity of the West of England Frenchay Campus], Professor Paul Hoggett, [Centre for Psycho-Social Studies Faculty of Humanities, Languages, and Social Science University of the West of England Frenchay Campus], "The Empire of fear: The American Political psyche and the culture of paranoia", Psychodynamic Practice, 10.1 February 2004. RFK

THE POWER AND THE FEAR¶ Today, at the beginning of the 21st century

AND

of Fear, now stands as the¶ major threat to global society.

AND---we must step off this Cycle of Violence treadmill by renouncing the need for retribution to avoid an Apocalyptic conclusion.

Robert Jay Lifton 03, [Has worked as a teacher and researcher at the Washington School of Psychiatry, Harvard University, and the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, where he helped to found the Center for the Study of Human Violence], "Superpower Syndrome: America's Apocalyptic Confrontation with the World", Nation Books, 2003. RFK

STEPPING OUT OF THE SYNDROME: We can do better. America is capable of

AND

also said, “He who does not know everything cannot kill everyone."



Part 3: Stop the War

Over the last two weeks, we have witnessed the conflation of crime and war that rationalizes even more violence abroad under the guise of retribution. US Representative Peter King called for Boston Terrorist suspect -- and US citizen -- Dzhokhar Tsarvaev to be tried as an enemy combatant in military courts rather than in the American criminal justice system – which King has NEVER advocated when it comes to any white American citizens arrested for bombing abortion clinics. Right wing radio host Laura Ingraham said: “(I would submit) that people shouldn’t be coming here as tourists from Chechnya after 9/11 ... Dagistan, Checnya, Kergystan, uh-uh. As George Bush would say, ‘None of them stans.’” Another Fox News contributor, Erik Rush, tweeted mere hours after the Boston Marathon tragedy after being asked if he blamed ALL Muslims for the bombing that: "Yes, they're evil, let's kill all of them."

We must reject the notion of offenders as the evil Other---I advocate embracing a rights-based rehabilitative ethic that focuses on reintegrating the offender back into society.

Edgardo Rotman 90, [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology¶ (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires.] "Beyond Punishment: A new View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders", Greenwood Press 1990. RFK

In modern pluralistic democracies, public policies are limited by individual rights. This moral

AND

, guaranteeing the dignity of human beings confronted with criminal pursuit and conviction.

AND----the focus on reintegration carries over into foreign policy---domestic discourse of criminology has a direct effect on how we deal with other states---

Wolfgang Wagner 10, [Professor of International Security at the University of Amsterdam], "Rehabilitation or Retribution? Cultures of Control and Policies towards "Rogue States", Inaugural Lecture at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 2010. RFK

The American policy is characterized by stigmatizing renegade regimes (Rudolf 1999). In fact

AND

retributionist paradigm which rose to dominance in American Criminal justice at that time.


==Negative== 
===Outsourcing CP=== 
Text: All jurisdictional agents in the United States correctional system will denounce rehabilitation as a goal to be valued above retribution and will explicitly embrace a retributivist model of corrections. Once released from the criminal justice system, individuals will be offered rehabilitation as advocated by the affirmative through relevant jurisdictional actors outside of the realm of the criminal justice system.
The counterplan provides programs to those who want it- that makes rehabilitation more effective outside the criminal justice system.
Logan and Gaes 93, Charles H. Logan [Visiting Fellow at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Office of Research and Evaluation] and Gerald G. Gaes [Federal Bureau of Prisons], “META-ANALYSIS AND THE REHABILITATION OF PUNISHMENT”, JUSTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993. RFK
Prison rehabilitation programs, especially if they are successful, confer valuable but unearned benefits
AND
not¶ confused-with the prison's essential mission of confinement as punishment.
Prisons are terrible places for rehabilitation---community-based rehabilitation is much more effective than rehabilitation in the criminal justice system.
David Farabee 05, [research psychologist at the Neuro- psychiatric Institute’s Integrated Substance Abuse Programs at the University of California–Los Angeles and a visiting professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León in Monterrey, Mexico. He previously served as lead analyst for criminal justice research at the Texas Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse, and as assistant professor of psychiatry and research scientist at the University of Kentucky Center on Drug and Alcohol Research.], “Rethinking Rehabilitation¶ Why Can’t We Reform Our Criminals?”, American Enterprise Institute, 2005. RFK
Another factor to consider is that prisons are exceedingly difficult places in which to provide
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">biased in their conclusions, we cannot even be sure of their efficacy.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Confinement Model CP</span>=== 

Text: The United States Criminal Justice System should explicitly denounce rehabilitation as its primary goal and officially endorse the confinement model of corrections as advocated by Charles Logan and Gerald Gaes. Negative speeches clarify intent.

The counterplan solves their advantages without the side effects of valuing rehabilitation.

Logan and Gaes 93, Charles H. Logan [Visiting Fellow at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Office of Research and Evaluation] and Gerald G. Gaes [Federal Bureau of Prisons], “META-ANALYSIS AND THE REHABILITATION OF PUNISHMENT”, JUSTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993. RFK

Another way to preserve treatment programs for prisoners would be to justify them on grounds

AND

justice system. They should not be declared the official business of prisons.

Rehabilitation destroys the social message that crime is wrong and punishable---encourages further offending

Logan and Gaes 93, Charles H. Logan [Visiting Fellow at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Office of Research and Evaluation] and Gerald G. Gaes [Federal Bureau of Prisons], “META-ANALYSIS AND THE REHABILITATION OF PUNISHMENT”, JUSTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993. RFK

As punishment, imprisonment conveys an important cultural message, but if the official mission

AND

excuse their crimes, but it conflicts with and weakens the punishment message.

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Sentencing Reform CP</span>=== 

TEXT: The United States Federal Government should establish criminal justice policies that value retribution over rehabilitation by changing sentencing guidelines to eliminate mandatory prison terms, decriminalize drugs, and prohibit reincarceration for technical violations of probation or parole; abolish inhumane prison conditions; individualize sentences of offenders based on blameworthiness; and denounce rehabilitation as a goal to be prioritized over retribution.

The counterplan solves mass incarceration and crime by minimizing drug violence and abolishing harsh sentences---these are all required by retribution

Gray and Huber 10, David Gray [Assistant Professor, University of Maryland School of Law], and Jonathan Huber [J.D. Candidate 2012, University of Maryland School of Law], "Retributivism for Progressives: A Response to Professor Flanders", Maryland Law Review Vol. 70, 2010. RFK

Judged by retributivist standards, American criminal justice is harsh insofar as it punishes too

AND

, we think that retributivism holds considerable untapped prom- ise for progressives.

AND- the counterplan solves the aff better than they do---rehabilitation that ignores individualized conceptions of guilt only exacerbates mass incarceration---only changing sentencing guidelines can reduce the prison population

Clear and Austin 09 Todd R. Clear [Distinguished Professor of Criminal Justice at John Jay College of Criminal Justice of the City University of New York, president of the American Society of Criminology], and James Austin [criminologist and the President of the JFA Institute], "Reducing Mass Incarceration: Implications of the Iron Law of Prison Populations", Harvard Law & Policy Review, Vol. 3, 2009. RFK

When people hear complaints about mass imprisonment they often automatically assume that opposition to big

AND

who go to prison and the length¶ of time they stay there.

AND- mass incarceration and selective enforcement are THE strongest internal links to crime and social disadvantage

Bryan Stevenson 11, [Executive Director of Equal Justice Initiative, professor at New York University School of Law], "Drug Policy, Criminal Justice and Mass Imprisonment", Global Commission on Drug Policies, Prepared for the First Meeting of the Commission, Geneva, January 2011. RFK

Criminal justice policy and increased use of sanctions and incarceration for¶ low-level

AND

of families and increased risk of¶ reincarceration for the formerly incarcerated.¶ 10

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Legal Legitimacy NC</span>=== 

I negate.
Because the resolution is a question of what the ideal criminal justice system looks like, it is necessary to determine the role of criminal law in public affairs. I value economic efficiency, because criminal law is best understood as a tool to promote efficient transactions of resources.
Brian Edgar Butler 11, [Associate Professor of Philosophy, University of North Carolina at Asheville], “Law and Economics”, Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, http://www.iep.utm.edu/law-econ/. RFK
Instead of following this path, theorists within the law and economics movement have attacked
AND
further creation of other productive areas for analyzing law (see Posner 1998).
The law is a tool to protect our rights to our property and person. We exchange resources by making voluntary agreements with others, but crime upsets those agreements. Accordingly, the value criterion is achieving optimal economic efficiency. This means that the criminal justice system must minimize crime, which violates voluntary agreements.
My thesis and sole contention is that rehabilitation makes the law less efficient by robbing it of its moral authority, which fosters conditions that create more crime.
A] Valuing rehabilitation over retribution destroys the social message that crime is wrong and should be condemned
Logan and Gaes 93, Charles H. Logan [Visiting Fellow at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Office of Research and Evaluation] and Gerald G. Gaes [Federal Bureau of Prisons], “META-ANALYSIS AND THE REHABILITATION OF PUNISHMENT”, JUSTICE QUARTERLY, Vol. 10 No. 2, June 1993. RFK
As punishment, imprisonment conveys an important cultural message, but if the official mission
AND
excuse their crimes, but it conflicts with and weakens the punishment message.
B] Law based on retribution and desert is crucial to maintaining the law’s moral authority, which reinforces social norms that prevent people from committing crimes or acting as vigilantes
Paul H. Robinson 09, [Colin S. Diver Professor of Law, University of Pennsylvania], “The Ongoing Revolution in Punishment Theory: Doing Justice as Controlling Crime”, text of the First Annual Edward J. Shoen Lecture, delivered at the Sandra Day O’Connor College of Law, Arizona State University, on February 26, 2009. RFK
Do crime-control instrumentalists have any reason to care about whether the criminal justice
AND
authority, including social institutions as well as circles of friends and acquaintances.)
C] The impact is that crime violates the standard by taking resources from victims, communities, and taxpayers under terms that no one would voluntarily agree to.
Robert J. Shapiro and Kevin A. Hassett 12, Robert Shapiro [senior fellow ¶ of the Georgetown University McDonough School of Business], Kevin Hassett [Director of economic policy studies and resident scholar at the ¶ American Enterprise Institute. Former senior economist ¶ at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University], “The Economic Benefits of Reducing Violent Crime¶ A Case Study of 8 American Cities”, Center for American Progress, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2012/06/pdf/violent_crime.pdf]]</span>. RFK
Violent crimes are costly. Murders, rapes, assaults, and robberies impose concrete
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">crime can produce substantial economic benefits for individuals, communities, and taxpayers.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Trust NC</span>=== 

I negate. Because the resolution is a question of what the ideal criminal justice system looks like, I value justice. The purpose of the law should be to reinforce conditions of trust, which is necessary to facilitate societal cooperation between individuals.
Susan Dimock in 97, [Professor of Philosophy at York University], "Retributivism and Trust", Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 1 (1997), pp. 37-62. RFK
There is a danger that this point may be misunderstood. We¶ are here
AND
rules is necessary to secure trust(at least some of the time).
Lack of trust leads to suboptimal outcomes because it means we can’t reliably make future investments, take risks, or cooperate with other people. Criminal law can create conditions where it is reasonable to trust others, even if it can’t punish every instance in which trust is violated.
Susan Dimock 2, [Professor of Philosophy at York University], "Retributivism and Trust", Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 1 (1997), pp. 37-62. RFK
To understand which violations of trust require punishment and which do not, we need
AND
subjective trust easier to achieve and maintain; it makes trust more reasonable.
Therefore, the standard is maintaining conditions of trust. My thesis and sole contention is that only retributive punishment restores trust after the offender has committed a crime.
A] RISK ASSESSMENT- punishing offenders creates negative consequences to violating trust by demonstrating that society is willing to take action.
Susan Dimock 3 [Professor of Philosophy at York University], "Retributivism and Trust", Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 1 (1997), pp. 37-62. RFK
But why do such displays of untrustworthiness merit punishment?¶ Why, that is,
AND
subjective willingness of individuals to trust, but that is an independent matter.
B] RULE OF LAW—retribution is necessary to maintain the conception of law as designed to maintain trust.
Susan Dimock 4, [Professor of Philosophy at York University], "Retributivism and Trust", Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 1 (1997), pp. 37-62. RFK
Secondarily, it is necessary that when trust between members of¶ society has been
AND
another reason to insist that basic trust be construed objectively rather than subjectively.
===Rights NC=== 
Because crimes establishes a relationship of dominance over the victim that retribution is necessary to reverse, I negate.
Individuals possess rights by virtue of being human, but those rights are meaningless unless they are enforced, especially in a society where our ability to pursue our own ends depends on mutual recognition of rights by others.
Daniel Farnham 08, [Professor of Philosophy, College of Saint Benedict, Saint John's University]. "A Hegelian Theory of Retribution", Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, Wiley Periodicals Inc. RFK
Wrongful action has communicative and consequential effects, but it also¶ creates a situation
AND
forms of diminishment, since she is not regarded¶ as an equal.¶
Therefore, the standard is ensuring the recognition of human rights, which is an active process whereby we express what rights people have and condemn wrongdoings that violate rights.
A] Moral wrongdoing puts the offender at a relation of dominance over the victim and devalues their human worth---only retribution annuls the offender’s claim of mastery over the victim and reaffirms the victim’s rights.
Daniel Farnham 08, [Professor of Philosophy, College of Saint Benedict, Saint John's University]. "A Hegelian Theory of Retribution", Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, Wiley Periodicals Inc. RFK
The most obvious instances of damage to realization involve bodily assault:¶ a person’s body
AND
, and thereby create the moral reality in which we¶ believe.50
B] Enforcing victims’ rights are especially important in a world of sexual assault and racially motivated attacks--- retribution is critical to combating oppressive hierarchies
Andrew E. Taslitz 99, [Professor, Howard Unviersity School of Law, former Assistant District Attorney, Philadelphia, PA], "Condemning the Racist Personality: Why the Critics of Hate Crimes Legislation Are Wrong", Boston College Law Review, Vol. 40, May 1999. RFK [ALL BRACKETS WERE THERE ORIGINALLY]
The same thing that demonstrates his culpability—the messages¶ his actions convey about
AND
-based harms of stereotyped justice7—the evils of racist¶ personality.
==Topicality== 
===T - "Criminal Justice System"=== 
A] Interpretation: Black’s Law Dictionary defines the criminal justice system:
Black's Law Dictionary 99, [most widely used law dictionary in the United States], 7th edition, Bryan A. Garner, editor, West Group 1999. RFK
criminal justice system. [is] The collective institutions through which an accused offender
AND
lawyers), and corrections (prison officials, probation officers, parole officers.)

===T- "Valued Above"=== 
Interp: “Valued above” means that the aff has to defend a shift in the beliefs that guide the overall policies of the criminal justice system to prioritize rehabilitation over retribution
Wasserman and Moore 88Robert Wasserman [Research Fellow, Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard], and Mark H. Moore [Faculty Chairman, Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University], “Values in Policing”, A publication of the National Institute of Justice, U.S. Department of Justice, and the Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management, 1988. RFK
This paper explores the role that the explicit statement of police values can have on
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Jokes, solemn understandings, and internal explanations for actions also express values.</span>


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
===TFA State 1AC=== 
Part 1 is the Framework
First, Regan and Aydin define intervention:
Regan and Aydin 05, Patrick M. Regan [Professor of Political Science at Binghamton University, specializes in International Relations and Conflict Management] and Aysegul Aydin [Department of Political Science, Assistant Professor, University of Colorado Boulder], "Diplomacy and Other Forms of Intervention in Civil Wars", The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 50, No. 5 (Oct., 2006), pp. 736-756. RFK
In this article, we articulate a theoretical framework that integrates mediation, ¶ military
AND
stick" ¶ strategies often advocated by the policy community and contemporary folklore.
Next- because all humans deserve the right to live a life of their own choosing by virtue of being human, the value criterion is respecting human rights.
Karina Sangha 12, [Political Science, University of Victoria], "The Responsibility to Protect: A Cosmopolitan Argument for the Duty of Humanitarian Intervention", Journal of the Canadian POlitical Science Students' Association, 2012. RFK
With this in mind, it should come as little surprise that cosmopolitanism has ¶
AND
beginning first with the duties of the state and related political ¶ institutions.
AND- human rights come before any other framework because they are the foundations of legitimate state institutions.
Rainer Forst 12, [Professor of Political Theory at the Department for Social Sciences], "The Justification of Human Rights and the Basic Right to Justification. A Reflexive Approach; Rainer Forst." Philosophical Dimensions of Human Rights, Corradetti, Claudio (Ed). 2012. RFK
Human rights are essential and fundamental standards of the legitimacy of a social and ¶
AND
power, and human rights are a way ¶ to express that.¶ 94
AND- human rights are not merely Western constructs ---universal human rights are minimal- every reasonable ethical or political theory agrees that the human rights violations that warrant intervention are intolerable.
Fernando R. Teson 01, [Tobias Simon Eminent Scholar at Florida State University College of Law], "The Liberal Case for Humanitarian Intervention", Public Law and Legal Theory Working Paper No. 39, November 2001. RFK
Some object to the very project of using liberal political theory to address humanitarian intervention
AND
sovereignty under which foreigners are morally precluded from saving victims of extreme injustice.
Part 2 is the Problem from Hell
America’s response in an age of genocide has been shaped by a philosophy of realism that values state sovereignty over universal human rights---this has lead to a culture of inaction that makes massive rights violations inevitable
Charlotte Hill 09, [Carl Wilkens Fellow with the Genocide Intervention Network, B.A. in Peace and Conflict Studies from UC Berkeley], "Inaction through Tears: Realism and U.S. Policy on Genocide", 2009. RFK
Regardless of the U.S. government’s strong condemnation of human rights abuses across
AND
future positions ¶ for government employees and reproducing and legitimating the realist framework.
AND- the focus on sovereignty and borders have served as a mask for a racist Western agenda---we don’t care about Africa because it’s Rwanda’s problem, it’s Darfur’s problem, it’s someone else’s problem--- we MUST affirm the equal importance of all human rights because selective enforcement of human rights only perpetuates violence
Shedrack C. Agbakwa 05, [Adjunct Professor of Law & SSHRC Doctoral Fellow, Osgoode Hall Law School, Toronto, Canda], "Genocidal Politics and Racialization of Intervention: From Rwanda to Darfur and Beyond", German Law Journal, Vol. 06 No. 2, 2005. RFK
My answer to the question posed above (i.e. would international response
AND
international peace and security, the ¶ international community can ill afford it.
AND- the US can no longer hide within its walls---human rights abuses in failed states breeds terrorism and causes global spillover which makes massive rights violations inevitable---humanitarian intervention is our only option
David Vesel 04, [B.A. from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill and an M.A. from the University of Bath; editor of a volume on SEcurity Sector Reform in the Western Balkans for the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces], "The Lonely Pragmatist: Humanitarian Intervention in an Imperfect World", B.Y.U. Journal of Public Law, Volume XVIII, 2003-2004. RFK
The protections of state sovereignty do not give governments the right to act with impunity
AND
customary international law is emerging in support of humanitarian intervention in failing states.
AND- claims to sovereignty can no longer be a barrier to humanitarian intervention---governments that don’t respect the rights of their citizens have no immunity
Evans and Sahnoun 02, Gareth Evans [President and Chief Executive Officer of the international Crisis Group and former Foreign Minister of Australia] and Mohamed Sahnoun, [Special Adviser on Africa to the UN Secretary-General and a former senior Algerian diplomat], "The Responsibility to Protect", Foreign Affairs, Vol. 81, No. 6, 2002. RFK
The international community in the last decade repeatedly made a mess of handling the many
AND
be regarded as a de facto emerging norm: the responsibility to protect.
Part 3: It is time to break down the walls---I advocate embracing an ethic of cosmopolitanism that prioritizes universal human rights over realist conceptions of sovereignty---we should be willing to step in in face of massive rights violations---only cosmopolitanism can reverse US hypocrisy and allow us to use our power for the good.
Mary Kaldor 03, [British academic, currently Professor of Global Governance at the London School of Economics, where she is also the Director of its Centre for the Study of Global Governance], "American Power: From 'Compellance' to Cosmopolitanism?", International Affairs (Royal Institute of International Affairs 1944-), Vol. 79, No. 1, pp. 1-22. RFK
At the heart of the cosmopolitan position is the notion that a new form of
AND
There is no such thing as democracy in one country any¶ longer.
AND- technological improvements and diplomatic incentives ensure that humanitarian interventions can be carried out without unnecessary violence, casualties, ulterior motives, or eradicating sovereignty. Intervention does not have to be military intervention---we have multiple options and we should use them.
Barry M. Benjamin 92, [Litigator, Kilpatrick Townsend, J.D., Fordham University], "Unilateral Humanitarian Intervention: Legalizing the Use of Force to Prevent Human Rights Atrocities", Fordham International Law Journal, Volume 16, Issue 1, 1992. RFK
III. LIMITED UNILATERAL HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION SHOULD BE LEGAL¶ Humanitarian intervention should be legal
AND
an effective balance between legitimate state sovereignty and the protection of human rights.
AND- genocide is preventable---we need to make sure that genocide stops paying off
Helen Fein 94, [Executive Director of the Institute for the STudy of Genocide, Associate of INternational Security Program at Harvard, founder and first President of the International Association of Genocide Scholars], "Prediction, Prevention, and Punishment of Genocide: Observation on Rwanda and Future Policies", REFUGE: Canada's Periodical on Refugees, Special Issue on Rwanda, Vol. 14, No. 5, October 1994. RFK
My thesis is that genocide is preventable (as are political mass murders), because
AND
in images of mass flight, chaos, blood, ¶ and death.
AND- the US is in a unique position to stop human rights abuses---massive improvements in military technology and diplomatic leverage make successful humanitarian intervention more feasible than ever---Kosovo and Libya prove
Tom Perriello 12, [President & CEO of the Center for American Progress Action Fund, Counselor to the Center for American Progress, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives, representing Central and Southern Virginia], "Humanitarian Intervention: Recognizing When, and Why, It Can Succeed", Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, Issue 23, Winter 2012. RFK
The use of force always entails grave dangers and human costs, and progressives have
AND
power can be seen as a historically unique opportunity to reduce human suffering.
==Negative== 
===Imperialism K=== 
Legitimizing intervention in the name of human rights allows the US to continue a form of Western imperialism that makes human rights abuses much worse by violating state sovereignty, enforcing capitalism, and promoting an agenda fraught with hypocrisy.
Rief and Tharoor 2k, Rief, David [Senior Fellow at the Wold Policy Institute at the New School for Social Research and a Fellow at the New York Institute for the Humanities at New York University], Shashi Tharoor [Indian Minister of State for Human Resource Development], "Humanitarian Intervention", World Policy Journal, Vol. 17, 2000. RFK
There is no doubt that the moral case for humanitarian intervention is ¶ convincing.
AND
people more secure, ¶ if less intervention took place, not more.
AND- WE MUST LEARN TO STAY AWAY- humanitarian intervention has destroyed Africa---capitalist expansion and political meddling in situations we don’t understand has only fueled violence and conflict
Silvia Federici 02, [Professor of Social Science at Hofstra University], "War, Globalization, and Reproduction", Alternatives: Turkish Journal of International Relations, Volume 1, Number 4, Winter 2002. RFK
As the proliferation of conflicts in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East,
AND
the imperialistic¶ project it embodies is to finally come to an end.
AND- the alternative is rejecting humanitarian intervention---restraint is critical---the US must end its imperialist policies and respect the boundaries of state sovereignty---it’s the only way to end the cycle of mass violence.
Walden Bello 06, [Filipino author, academic, and political analyst; professor of sociology and public administration at the University of the Philippines Diliman, as well as executive director of Focus on the Global South], "Humanitarian Intervention: Evolution of a Dangerous Doctrine", Focus on the Global South, Revised version of a speech delivered at the Conference on Globalization, War, and Intervention sponsored by the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, German Chapter, Frankfurt, Germany, 2006. RFK
Iraq shows the dangers of the humanitarian rationale. It can so easily be used
AND
executed projects whose main effect was to stoke resentment in the local population.
===Capitalism K=== 
There is no such thing as purely altruistic intervention---Western justifications of human rights always carry along political baggage of economic structures and serve as an excuse for the imposition of capitalism on other countries.
Paul Treanor 04, [Dutch political philosopher and economist, author of Liberalism: Origins, Theory, Definition], "Why Human Rights Are Wrong- A Western Critique of Human Rights", Vigil Online, 25 August 2004. RFK
Human rights conflict with the principle of moral autonomy, and form an excuse for
AND
democratic states: human rights form part of the ideology of this conquest.
AND- humanitarianism is a mask for soft coercion which allows the US to exploit regions of the world by promoting selfish conceptions of capitalism---that only increases global poverty and suffering.
John Roberts 10, [Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Communications, Brunel University, London], "The State, Empire, and Imperialism", Current Sociology, Vol. 58 No. 6, 2010. RFK
The ‘war on terror’ has been a convenient discursive lynchpin for public military and
AND
, empowerment, partnerships and so on ¶ (see Thornton, 2000).
AND- the alt is that we must reject US justifications for exploitation---promoting human rights is a flagrant act of hypocrisy which perpetuates the root cause of global conflict by exacerbating global inequality.
Johannes Dragsbaek Schmidt 04, [Assistant Professor of Political Science, Aalborg University, Research Center on Development and International Relations], "Reflections on Human Rights and the New U.S. World Disorder", Development Research Series Research Center on Development and International Relations, Working Paper No. 123, RFK.
In the present stage of capitalism there is a tendency that human rights in most
AND
mass destruction that undermine international ¶ treaties on biological and chemical warfare.29

[[media type="custom" key="21618214"]]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]