@Griffin HS -
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Aff - Next Gen - </span>Advantage 1 Economy Advantage 2 Military====== 

@ Hooch HS -
Native American Transportation Infrastructure
Advantage 1 Genocide
Advantage 2 Self-Determination

@ Griffin
Aff - Next Gen w/ Drones advantage
NEG STRATS - -
T - Investment, T - Infrastructure not vehicles, C/P States, Disad - Spending, Disad - Politics - Iran Strikes / China Currency Manipulator
K- Cap, Case negs

@ Alpharetta @ John's Creek @Harvard @ NFL Districts
======NATIONAL PARKS====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Transportation Infrastructure in America’s National Parks is inherently failing.</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National Parks Conservation Services, July 13, 2012</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">“Roads and bridges in our national parks are in serious disrepair. . . . •90 percent of the … park roads are in poor or fair condition. Road fatalities and injuries . . so the fiscally-flawed incentive is to skip inexpensive regular maintenance and wait for the facilities to deteriorate. . . incapable of generating sufficient revenues to adequately maintain transportation . . . This flawed part of the law needs to change.</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">The result is two comparative advantages: First, Environment.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Failing infrastructure destroys the ability to visit park</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National Geographic undated, downloaded October ‘12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National parks are the destination of many a great American road trip. But too many roads within the parks themselves are in disrepair and some pose a real danger to drivers. The same goes for many parts of the parks’ transportation infrastructure, from shuttle buses to hiking trails. . . . backlog is earmarked for the transportation infrastructure that enables people to actually visit the parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, future generations of conservationists depend upon the National Parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Scarlett, 2009, Lynne, New York Times,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">There are conservation interconnections, too. Wildlife sustenance re requisite interconnections with people. The nation’s investment in its parks depends on people feeling connected to parks, affirming their importance and perceiving their relevance. Yet those interconnections with people are tenuous.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, National Parks restore the relationship between humans and the natural environment to protect for environmental collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Porter 2001 James, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, “Enhancing the Role of the Recreationist in the Conservation of Parks and Protected Areas”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">The relationship between humans and the natural . . . environmental collapse and devastation . . . that the discourse on sustainability had emerged . . . he environmental protection offered by parks and other protected areas are one way by which society’s desire to maintain the landscape as natural is expressed, and the broader goal of sustainability is pursued.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, preservation of the environment requires an endorsement of technology in conservation. National Parks uniquely unify those forces.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Louter, 2006 David, historian with the National Park Service, Windshield Wilderness, p.4-5 ,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Perhaps the greatest example of this conceptual flexibility is the way automobiles have shaped our perceptions of parks as wilderness reserves (open to cars). . . . . Although our opinions have changed about his vision of national parks and nature, the model continues to have a powerful hold how we imagine national parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">And survival of the environment relies on informed human interaction Doremus, 2000 [Holly, Professor of law at UC Davis, 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Substantial human presence and activity may be compatible with many nature protection goals, including the protection of biological diversity. . . . excluding people can be . . . . . . . that wilderness cannot perform its esthetic or character-building functions unless people are allowed into it. . . . strict hand- off strategy is inconsistent with the protection of species, ecosystems, or natural processes. . . . ecologists tell us that most areas dedicated to the preservation of nature cannot simply be left to their own devices, but will require active human management. . . . the experience of nature in the parks would . . . cultivate concern for nature in other locations. AND, the moral obligation of preserving the Environment outweighs other impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Elliott`97 (Herschel, University of Florida Emeritus Philosophy, 1997 “A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">. . . all systems of ethical beliefs are hypotheses about how human beings can live on Earth. . . ., acceptable moral behavior. . . . , biological necessity has a veto over moral behavior. . . . the welfare of all organisms -- . . . ecosystems which sustain them.. . . moral priority over the welfare of any of its parts -- including the needs and interests of human societies and individuals.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Advantage Two is Encroachment -</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;"> “Beaten Path” laws allow whoever maintains roads to control federal lands Dugan, Oct 6, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">(States passing law which)"requires the United States to extinguish title to public lands and transfer title to those public lands to the state . . . The whole thing is just absurd," . . . ."The right of the federal government to own and control land has been established by statute and upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court for nearly two centuries, . . that's probably going to be where the rubber meets the road," he said. State’s takeover of National Parks generally kills conservation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Repanshek, 2011 Should states retake the national parks? . . . many states are finding it difficult to maintain their state parks. . . . Why not just take away . . . conservation . . . Surely, by doing so free enterprise could be unleashed on the parks . . . But then, the concept of the American National Park System would be lessened, if not outright tarnished, no?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National Parks don’t allow commercial exploitation – But, States will push for it; when a Camel gets its nose under the tent, its coming through:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Smythe, 2009 Boston.com [[http://articles|__http://articles__]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">. . . lands are being used for oil and gas drilling as budget-strapped states seek new sources of revenue. by reversing previous bans -. Drilling is still barred in national parks. But the reversal of some state bans coincides with efforts to expand exploration in other previously off-limits locations:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, we must protect the Parks from the State’s commercial exploitation of oil and natural gas resources. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Fairbrother, Sept 2012 . . .the National Park Service, the agency that currently maintains 84 million acres of American land in [[@http://www.takepart.com/article/2012/08/10/if-our-national-parks-had-subway-system|__397 national park__]][[@http://www.takepart.com/article/2012/08/10/if-our-national-parks-had-subway-system|__s__]]. . . more than 280 million visitors utilize our parks annually. That’s nearly 90 percent of Americans. . . Oil and gas companies are jockeying to obtain rights to extract resources from public soil.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, drilling in the national parks kills plants and animal species.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Youngblood, Sept 2012 . . . the dangers of drilling, “Toxic chemicals . . . used in oil and gas drilling and production activities. There is also the equally real threat of spills, . . . , endangered . . . . . . . are thriving! Imagine now if a pipeline broke at one of these sites. . . . </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND Keystone species rely on National Parks.Eparks.com, 2006 [[http://www.eparks.org/wildlife]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">1300 listed Endangered or Threatened Species. . . National Parks protect many of these species.. . . . The National Parks are critical but endangered living laboratories, museums, and repositories of biodiversity. AND Biodiversity key now – close to the tipping point</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Walsh 10 . . . We are now close to a “tipping point” . . . .threshold beyond which biodiversity loss will become irreversible. . .AND Loss of biodiversity results in extinction and outweighs all other impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">WILSON 1992 (Dr. Edward O.The Diversity of Life”, 1992) . . . millions of years to correct is the loss of genetic and species diversity by the destruction of natural habitats. . . . .</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">PLAN: The United States federal government should increase investment to 100% of necessary funding to repair, rebuild and improve transportation infrastructure on federal lands in National Parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">SOLVENCY: The plan increases investment in infrastructure which solves the funding formula for National Parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National Parks Conservation Services, July 13, 2012 . . . lands. However, the 80/20 cost-share requirement poses a virtually insurmountable obstacle to advance these projects as there are no non-federal partners on federal lands to provide the necessary non-federal match. . . . funding should be at 100% federal as similar projects are funded in the Federal Lands Highways Program.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, Federal funding solves for deterioration of the infrastructure which preserves and maintains the National Parks for generations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">ANNSON, 1996 Richard, J., However, the grandeur of our national parks—and the character of our nation—is currently at stake . . . Throughout the park system, the monetary shortfall has thwarted the Park Service's ability to prevent the steady deterioration of roads, . . . , and other infrastructure.. . . If our nation is to preserve and maintain our national parks for this generation and future generations, the Park Service must obtain appropriate levels of funding. AND, U.S. National park policies will be modeled internationally</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">National Park Service, 2008 The American system of national parks was the first of its kind in the world, and provides a living model for other nations wishing to establish and manage their own protected areas. The park service actively consults with these Nations, sharing what we've learned, and gaining knowledge from the experience of others.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, facilitating transportation prevents exploitation and makes National Parks flourish.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Simmons, 2009Bob, Seattle Times, Without cars, there would be no national parks,. . . they're the reason the parks have flourished. In the early days of our national parks, revered naturalists including John Muir promoted tourism in order to grow the political clout to save parklands from mining and logging. . . .</span>

@Samford
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">SPEED IS NOT A SOLUTION TO TRANSPORTATION</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Snyder, August 2012 [[http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/08/15/theres-a-lot-riding-on-u-s-dots-definition-of-congestion/|http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/08/15/theres-a-lot-riding-on-u-s-dots-definition-of-congestion/__]]</span>
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">TRANSPORT TIME SAVINGS FAIL – INCREASE PROBLEMS</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Delepierre 2008</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Camille, Slowing Down? Why Cities should reduce car speed</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">[[http://www.lumes.lu.se/database/alumni/06.08/thesis/Camille_Delepierre.pdf__|__http://www.lumes.lu.se/database/alumni/06.08/thesis/Camille_Delepierre.pdf__]]</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">DEBATING TI DEPENDS ON COMMUNICATIVE RATIONALITY AND DISCOURSE.</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Delepierre 2008</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Camille, Slowing Down? Why Cities should reduce car speed</span>====== 
======<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">[[http://www.lumes.lu.se/database/alumni/06.08/thesis/Camille_Delepierre.pdf__|__http://www.lumes.lu.se/database/alumni/06.08/thesis/Camille_Delepierre.pdf__]]</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">REFUSE to accept speed.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Zorn, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">[[http://blogs.chicagotribune.com/news_columnists_ezorn/2012/03/the-affirmative-case-for-reforming-academic-debate.html]]</span>
======__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Harens, 2003</span>__====== 
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[[http://debate.uvm.edu/NFL/rostrumlib/cx%20Harens%2003-03.pdf]]</span>__
======__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Dale Herbeck, Boston College:</span>__====== 
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[[http://groups.wfu.edu/NDT/Articles/herbeck.html]]</span>__
======__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">David Cheshier</span>__====== 
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[[http://debate.uvm.edu/NFL/rostrumlib/cxCheshier0402.pdf]]</span>__
======__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">REJECT the style of speed</span>__====== 
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Tolchinsky, 2011</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[[http://globaldebateblog.blogspot.com/2011/07/new-documentary-covers-world-of-fast.html#!/2011/07/new-documentary-covers-world-of-fast.html|http://globaldebateblog.blogspot.com/2011/07/new-documentary-covers-world-of-fast.html#!/2011/07/new-documentary-covers-world-of-fast.html]]</span>__

@UGA
Drones (See Swann/Ku)