=Aff Run at Districts:=


1AC 

One of the most important forms of transportation in the US is waterways. Investing in the restoration of river infrastructures, to make them better for transportation of boating for recreation and fishing, is our way of upholding this year’s resolution – that the United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure. Therefore we offer the following plan.

The United States federal government should invest in the removal of the following federally funded dams: Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower Granite. 

Contention 1 is Inherency

1. Attitudinal Inherency - The federal government has chosen to maintain four major dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge

Yardley a writer for New York Times in 2012, (William, 4/26/2012 April 26, 2012, “Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html)

SEATTLE — A federal judge who spent a … can raise hell, and I did.” 

Contention 2 is Harms – there are two major harms caused by the Snake River Dams

First is Biodiversity

1. The Snake River dams are killing sockeye salmon – it’s a keystone species

Gray writer for Men’s Journal, 12 (Kevin, , 3/13 “Last Chance to Save the Salmon” Mens Journal, http://www.bluefish.org/lastsave.htm)

On the Lower Snake River -- … culprit is these gargantuan dams."

2. Dams destroy ecosystems – river connectivity is key
Higgs conservation assistant at American Rivers 2002 (Stephen Higgs, then a, and edited by Elizabeth Maclin and Margaret Bowman of American Rivers and Angela Bednarek of the University of Pennsylvania. February 2002. JD, now an associate in the Perkins Cole Environment, Energy, and Resources Group, et al,”THE ECOLOGY OF DAM REMOVAL: A Summary of Benefits and Impacts”, http://www.michigandnr.com/PUBLICATIONS/PDFS/fishing/dams/EcologyofDamRemoval.pdf)

Ecological Consequences of Dams A dam … out of business as a result.

3. Decision Rule - Marine ecosystem collapse causes extinction of all species
Craig  Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University 2003 (Robin Kundis, School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)

Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … out of business as a result.

4. Collapse of all species causes human extinction
Diner Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army 94 (, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161,)

No species has ever dominated … edging closer to the abyss.




The Second Harm is the Native Culture

1. Salmon were key to tribal culture. The Grand Coulee Dam has killed them off causing a cultural genocide.

Harden, fellow at the Peterson Foundation 2002 (The Grand Coulee: Savior For Whites, Disaster For Indians, Blaine Harden, Alicia since 1993, 2011-05-02, http://aliciapatterson.org/stories/grand-coulee-savior-whites-disaster-indians)

Before Grand Coulee Dam was … flow you replaced our salmon."   


2. We have categorically excluded Native Reservations from reaping any benefit from the Dams, which has led to massive poverty 

Barnes 01 (Erin Barnes, undergrad university of va, A History of the Grand Coulee Dam 1801-2001, http://xroads.virginia.edu/~ug02/barnes/grandcoulee/nateffects.html)phol

The Yakima Treaty of 1855 entitled … mark the majority of reservations.


3. Construction of the Snake River dams led to Native Americans being treated as sub-humans

National Park Service 2006 (National Park Service, 12/13/2006, Lake Roosevelt Administrative History, CHAPTER 2: The River Becomes a Lake, http://www.nps.gov/history/history/online_books/laro/adhi/adhi2a.htm)phol

The CCT and STI suffered … than people living in towns.

4. Survival of Native American culture solves human extinction - key to every other impact.

Weatherford 94 (Jack, Anthropologist, Savages and Civilization: Who Will Survive?, pp. 287-291)phol

Today we have no local … and wonder why we disappeared.
. 

Contention Three – Solvency

1. Removing the four dams allows boating

CNN 1999 (http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE)

The resolution is nonbinding, meaning … for the American Canoe Association]


2. Only removal can restore Snake River salmon
Blumm Professor of Law at Lewis and Clark 12 (Faculty Scholar and “The Real Story Behind the Columbia Basin Salmon Debacle: Dam Preservation Under the Endangered Species Act,” February 17, http://elawreview.org/2012/02/the-real-story-behind-the-columbia-basin-salmon-debacle-dam-preservation-under-the-endangered-species-act/, LVS)

This review of Steven Hawley’s … for more than three decades.


3. Removing the dams is the only cost-effective option
Mace Project Director @ Save Our Wild Salmon 2009 (Sam, Inland Northwest, advocacy organization, 4/1/ “Stuck in the Mud” Wild Salmon http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/the-problems/stuck-in-the-mud-growing-flood-risk-growing-costs-with-keeping-the-lower-snake-river-dams.html)

CORPS’ PREFERRED SOLUTIONS: COSTLY, UNREALISTIC, … 2008-9 if sufficient funding is secured.