[[toc]]
camilareed-guevara@rowlandhall.org
clairewang@rowlandhall.org
Please send us an email if you have any questions. Email me through the first address for any aff questions, and email Claire for any neg questions.
=Icebreakers Affirmative= 
===Inherency=== 
The US currently lacks sufficient ice breaker capabilities to open up sea lanes around the United States
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beilinson</span>, Deputy Editor of Popular Mechanics, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span> (Jerry, February 17th, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now,” Popular Mechanics, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/]]infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Coast Guard cutters are stationed in the Bering Sea</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">g</span> the Coast Guard to react <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to a changing world</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
===Plan text:=== 
The United States federal government should modernize the icebreaker fleet for icebreaking operations in the United States.
===Advantage 1- Arctic War=== 
The Arctic zone will be the next arena for global military conflict – the US has fallen behind in the currently militarizing ice race
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huffington Post </span>4/16/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>, “Arctic Climate Change Opening Region To New Military Activity.” Eric Talmadge. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change-military-activity_n_1427565.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">world's military leaders,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the debate over climate change is long over. They </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operation belongs to the Coast Guard. The U.S. is currently mulling whether to add more icebreakers.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arctic land grabs happening now – even Russia identifies it as the next arena for war</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reiss, 7/16</span>/12. Bob Reiss, a former reporter at the Chicago Tribune, is the author of 18 books. “Why we should look to the Arctic.” CNN.com. http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/16/opinion/reiss-arctic-drilling/index.html

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- An </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">undersea </span>land rush has started<span style="font-size: 8pt;">under the treaty, with ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> more resources.</span>

Ice breakers are a key to keeping up – failure to modernize the fleet ensures that the US will fall behind
Tyler <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davis, </span>Young Leaders Program at Heritage Foundation,<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 11 </span>(December 9, 2011The Lone Icebreaker: U.S. Sovereignty in the Arctic,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/]]</span>, Heritage foundation) DG
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States Coast Guard is being left behind in the Arctic...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ultimately, something must be done. </span>If the U.S. does not act <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fast</span>, it will come in last in the race for the Arctic<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
Ice breakers are the biggest internal link to all US activity in the Arctic – the plan is key to ensuring US leadership
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Rourke, specialist in naval affairs, 6/14. </span>Ronald O’Rourke “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress.” Congressional Research Service. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***[The study] concludes that** </span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">future capability and ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current demand for this mission requires continuous icebreaker presence in both Polar Regions.</span>**
**This allows the US to play a critical role in de-escalating Arctic conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC et al 07 </span>(National Research Council , Polar Research Board,Marine Board (MB)Earth and Life Studies (DELS)Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “ Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World:An Assessment of U.S. Needs.” Online PDF at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753#orgs )**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the breakup of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, there are no direct military threats in the Arctic basin. However, ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the spectrum from peacetime operations to conflict.</span>**
**Absent de-escalation, current militarization will ensures Arctic conflicts go nuclear**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wallace and Staples, 10</span>(Michael Wallace and Steven Staples. *Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia AND** President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]</span>) DG
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The fact is,..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">non-Arctic states begin to recognize the geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.” 62</span>
===Advantage 2 - Economy=== 
Scenario 1 is China-
China is currently exploiting the Arctic to overtake the US economically – failure to develop ice breakers cedes the region to Chinese economic dominance
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beilinson</span>, Deputy Editor of Popular Mechanics, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span> (Jerry, February 17th, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now,” Popular Mechanics, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/]]engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)
China<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a country with no Arctic coast, </span>is building icebreakers<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> place in the Strait each summer. </span>That’s America’s backyard.
Ice breakers are key to giving the US economic control of Arctic sea lanes – solves Chinese dominance and allows the US to control the international economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Treadwell</span>, Lieutenant Governor of Alaska, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">’11</span> (Mead, December 1, “America is Missing the Boat” Congressional Testimony United States House of Representatives Committee Transportation on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyCGMT/2011-12-1-Treadwell.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">other </span>Arctic<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as they have one-fifth of the world’s population.</span>
Relative US economic strength key to preventing aggressive Chinese adventurism and war over Taiwan
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pape</span>, PolSci Prof at UChicago, ‘<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span> (Robert, January, “Empire Falls” http://nationalinterest.org/article/empire-falls-2952)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over time, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America's power is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fundamentally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> world's product, the United States could imagine maintaining this hope. Nearing 20 percent, it cannot.</span>
Economic decline collapses hege
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zakaria 8</span>(Fareed Zakaria, PhD from Harvard and Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs and a Contributing Editor for Newsweek, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy; The next U.S. president faces a unique opportunity to put in place an architecture of peace for the 21st century”, Newsweek, Dec 8, lexis)
Any attempt at a grand strategy for today must ..., nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>- Zalmay Khalilzad, served as U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations, now serves as a counselor to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, February 8, 2011, “The Economy and National Security,” The National Review Online, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2
We face this domestic challenge while other, the U<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tates </span>is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.
.
China will escalate the conflict – perception of rational escalation ensures US gets drawn into the nuclear arms race
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaser</span>, PolSci Prof at George Washington, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">’11</span> (Charles, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? THE PROSPECTS for avoiding intense military competition and war may be good, but </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, leading to further Chinese military efforts and a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.</span>
Scenario 2 is resources-
The U.S. is falling behind in Arctic resource and strategy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hobson, 6/27</span>. Margaret Kriz Hobson, E&E reporter, 6/27/12. “Calls for Arctic policy intensify as Shell nears final OK for exploration.”
http://www.eenews.net/public/energywire/2012/06/27/1 - claire
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">or Arctic development," Ulmer said. "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It's only recently that the U.S. has figured out that the Arctic is both valuable and vulnerable and needs more careful thought.</span>
US needs federal icebreakers to access arctic resources before other countries do
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolf and Klimasinska, 12</span> (Carol and Kasia, July 18th, both reporters for Bloomberg News in Washington, “Shell-Led Arctic Push Finds U.S. Shy in Icebreakers: Energy,” Bloomberg, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-s-shy-in-icebreakers-energy-1-.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Countries and companies are laying plans for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> conference on the subject last month. “If anyone thinks it’s like Lake Michigan in July and August, they are dreaming in Technicolor.”</span>
U.S. leadership in Arctic resource development key – ensures economic stability and sets a precedent for environmental protection
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sullivan, 7/20</span>/12.Dan Sullivan, a former state attorney general, is the commissioner of Alaska's Department of Natural Resources. “It's time to develop our Arctic resources.” CNN.com. http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/20/opinion/sullivan-arctic-drilling/index.html - claire
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States is on the ...</span> United States will show the world that it can be a strong leader in responsible energy development.
Arctic resources key to short term recovery and long term economic security
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bert, ’12. </span>Captain Melissa Bert, USCG, 2011-2012 Military Fellow, U.S. Coast Guard
January 2012. American Foreign Policy Interests. “The Arctic Is Now: Economic and National Security in the Last Frontier.” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10803920.2012.653940#preview
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the United States, greater </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">... to the United States.</span>
Without a clear economic leader in the arctic, resource abundance will lead to wars – treaties don’t solve
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Macalister, 11</span> (Terry, July 6th, Energy editor of the Guardian, <span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">“</span>Rush for Arctic's resources provokes territorial tussles,” The Guardian,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/jul/06/arctic-resources-territorial-dispute]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two nations on opposite sides of the Nato military alliance divide .... regard the archipelago as having its own shelf, leaving scope for conflict. A major oil discovery off Svalbard would undoubtedly trigger a row.</span>
Scenario 3 is shipping-
Icebreakers are key to Great Lakes shipping which supports our economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feller 6</span> (Allyson ,US Coast Guard Analyst, “THE NEED FOR ICE BREAKERS ON THE GREAT LAKES,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.piersystem.com/go/doc/443/115604/]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before the years of WWII the shipping season would come to a stand-still and the shipping trade would stop. During the war it was important to keep the steel mills running so products could be continually produced for the war effort. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and for now, they are here to stay.</span>
Great Lakes shipping is key to US economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US DOT, 2011</span> (US Department of Transportation Office of Public Affairs, October 18th, 2011, “New Economic Study Finds Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Seaway System Supports Over 225,000 Jobs and Generates Billions in Other Benefits”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a new study released today, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> components.</span>
Next is impacts -
A protracted decline in the US economy will shred global economic resilience and lead to a complete breakdown of the world economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum</span>, Director of Foreign Policy Program at John Hopkins, ‘<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span> (Michael, “The Case for Goliath: How America Acts as the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century” p 192-195)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood that a nuclear shot would be fired in anger somewhere in the world, counted as the most serious potential consequence of the abandonment by the United States of its role as the world's government, it was not the only one... A world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.</span>
That’s the key internal link to escalation of regional wars – makes every conflict go global
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg</span>, IR Professor at Princeton, ‘<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span> (Aaron, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the ....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">potentially </span>disastrous effects of disengagement and the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stiff </span>price tag of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">continued </span>American leadership<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Contention 3- We are topical=== 
Definitions that focus on transportation infrastructure investment as a function of economic productivity are politically biased and intellectually lazy – it’s much harder for economists to measure military impact so they leave it out of their studies. However, the most logical definition is public-owned natural monopolies – aka military investments; other interpretations simply devolve this topic to a States CP every round, leading us to the same round every time.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gramlich 94</span>**, PhD from Yale, former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and former Dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at University of Michigan (Edward M., “Infrastructure Investment: A Review Essay”, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 32, No. 3. (Sep., 1994), pp. 1176-1196. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-0515%28199409%2932%3A3%3C1176%3AIIARE%3E2.0.CO%3B2-C)

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nowhere has </span>////<span style="font-size: 11pt;">this</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> speculative bubble...t</span>he spending infrastructure investment. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>



Federal Transportation Infrastructure includes defense facilities – military is the only fed key warrant

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Poole 1996 </span>(Robert W. Former member of the President’s Commission on Privatization, “Defederalizing Transportation Infrastructure,http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">This paper has sought to demonstrate that federal </span>

=Homelessness Affirmative= 
===Observation One: This is a public space!=== 
We begin with the descriptions by Samira Kawash, from her article “The Homeless Body”
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Samira Kawash, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

It’s late, and I`m hurrying home, ...//this body exerts so powerful an effect on the other riders//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

That question posed by the homeless body is the same question inherent in this year’s topic. Traditional infrastructure investment operates within the project of urban renewal that attempts to purify and improve our society’s operations, movement, and space. The problem is that these policies attack the economically and socially marginalized through gentrification and privatization of that space. Status quo infrastructure improvements seek to eliminate the homeless because they are seen as a problem //TO// the economy instead of product //OF// it.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dislocations and disruptions caused by programs of ...</span>to the phantomal public is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> what I will call in this essay </span>the homeless body<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

(slow) The exclusion of the homeless body and the securitization of public space make violence inevitable. Policies become tools to exclude, humiliate, and eliminate homeless people.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Homelessness and Placelessness Since ... many choose to avoid them altogether. </span>
This fuels a type of management and exclusion that creates an endless apocalypse for countless populations not included within society.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 2000</span>(Peter, Prof. of English at Bowdoin College, //Apocalypse From Now On//, pg. 11)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">seems </span>a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.


===Observation Two: Not being at home in one’s home…=== 
Modern politics is obsessed with the “homecoming,” of finally reaching the utopian future where growth, security, and freedom all exist in perfect harmony. More speed, more progress, more expansion – Infrastructure is our home. But as the state tries to build a better home, they displace those who won’t live there.
These dreams of a perfect and comfortable home stigmatize the homeless and destroy alternative dwelling options – this creates barelife and prevents the possibility of ethical living.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feldman, ‘6</span> (Leonard C, Assistant Prof of Polisci @ the U of Oregon, Citizens Without Shelter: Homelessness, Democracy, and Political Exclusion, p. 22-24)-mikee

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At this point, however, </span>a critic might argue that<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">These limits, though, are more like frontiers. </span>

Meaning, ethical living, and genuine hospitality are impossible within the status quo’s conception of a home.
Theodor <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adorno</span> 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">51</span> – renowned German philosopher and Holocaust survivor (“Minima Moralia: Reflections on a Damaged Life,” Verso)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Refuge for the Homeless - The predicament of private life today is shown by its arena. </span>//...// //Wrong life cannot be lived rightly//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
We must give up on the home – The comforts there are simply neurotic and cause totalitarian living. Only a gesture that embraces homelessness within one’s home can preserve the possibility of morality.
Tyson <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span> and Daniel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cho </span>20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span> (“HOME IS WHERE THE NEUROSIS IS: A TOPOGRAPHY OF THE SPATIAL UNCONSCIOUS,” University of Minnesota Press, Project Muse)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, </span>the traditional house is haunted<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> by ghosts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; ... the confines of the traditional home and its attending immanent paradox.</span>




===Observation Three – Our Response=== 
Transportation policies, imaginations of this topic, intrinsically produce modes of homeless dwelling. Transportation policy, which, for the “homed” is a policy of convenience, speed, efficiency and progress, is simultaneously a “dwelling policy” for the homeless.
Some make a comfortable home for themselves in both mind and body by purifying their environment, eliminating unwanted thoughts from creeping in, building four walls and a sturdy roof, and by organizing their lives such that interaction with “undesirables” is kept to a minimum. The transportation system is one of the few ways that this comfortable sense of home is disrupted by figures of the homeless who make transportation infrastructure their place of dwelling. Rather than confront this reality, those desiring home, avert their eyes, wait for the light to turn green, and drive on.
The topic itself is a kind of conceptual transportation infrastructure. The topic is not this or that thing, rather it is a crossing place, a “crossroads,” for multiple imaginations and ways to affirm/negate. When we say the topic is only one thing we close ourselves off to points of difference and try to construct the topic as a “home.” But the topic is not a home; it is a site for multiple forms of dwelling. Homelessness is the heart of this topic both in form and content. Refusal to confront this performs the invisibility that renders the homeless figure as an absolute other of our society. Thus we affirm the topic as a site of multiple forms of dwelling and as an opportunity to come to terms with homelessness. Thus, Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.

Out method and advocacy is based in nomadism and is the only approach that solves – other strategies reach a “home” or a redemptive endpoint, while ours continually acts to prevent injustice
Ilan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gur-Ze’ev</span> 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span> – professor at the University of Haifa ADORNO AND HORKHEIMER: DIASPORIC PHILOSOPHY, NEGATIVE THEOLOGY, AND COUNTER-EDUCATION)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is where the Diasporic dimension is so central to the mature thinking of Adorno and Horkheimer...of a present-day Diasporic counter-education.</span>

And, our act of dwelling affirms the public transportation infrastructure as an alternative site of home dwelling. The affirmation of the bus as home is a form of pluralization that disrupts the political order of the status quo. Voting affirmatives establish an ethic of responsiveness that respects the homeless.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feldman, ‘6</span> (Leonard C, Assistant Prof of Polisci @ the U of Oregon, Citizens Without Shelter: Homelessness, Democracy, and Political Exclusion, p. 145-148)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An ethic of dwelling does not involve stripping away superficial differences to find the essential human beneath... premised on the isolation and exclusion of bare life.</span>
We must expose the violence inflicted upon the homeless body in order to prevent exclusion by the public body
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">If the circuit of body, meaning and place closes to enforce the ideological and material exclusion of the homeless. ..</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">rather than the visibility of the homeless as such, that holds some promise for interrupting the exclusionary </span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">imagination</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> of the public. </span></span>
=Negative= 
==DA's== 
=== === 
===Elections=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Uniqueness: Obama winning now but its close</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Inquisitr 11/1</span>
(November 1, 2012, The Inquisitr “Presidential Polls Reveal Obama Surges Ahead After Sandy” http://www.inquisitr.com/383832/presidential-polls-reveal-obama-surges-ahead-after-sandy/)
Presidential polls have been neck and neck in a tight race,...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in Mr. Obama’s favor given how close we are to the finish line.”</span>
**B. Links: New deficit spending galvanizes conservatives – helps Romney win.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraushaar, ‘12</span>** (Josh Kraushaar, 5/16/12, National Journal, “Romney's Targeted Deficit Messaging,” http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>//spending// and debt are big issues<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the.... State polls, but the Romney campaign is optimistic about their chances there, hoping to take advantage of the state's "live free or die" sentiment.</span>
**C. Impacts:**
**1.** China bashing now uniquely triggers war – Chinese political transition and Taiwan war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buisness Insider, 10/22</span>/12. Colin Moreshead, studied at Wesleyan and Waseda Universities, where his research focused primarily on Japanese economic institutions and exchange rate policy. “Romney Can't Afford To Do Much More China-Bashing” http://www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romney-needs-to-stop-bashing-china-2012-10 - claire
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the current circumstances, ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> tiger.</span>
**2. US-China war goes nuclear – guarantees massive death.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Lind,** Center for Cultural Conservatism, **‘5**</span> (William, May 18, “War With China?” [[http://www.military.com/Opinions/0,,Lind_051805,00.html]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">I regard a </span>war with China<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- hot or cold -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">perhaps </span>//the greatest strategic blunder// the U<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tates </span>could make<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, beyond those it has already made. The end result would be the sa.... . Perhaps if someone could talk to Karl Rove about the importance of the Chinese vote ...</span>
=== === 
===Sequestration DA=== 
A. Uniqueness: Sequestration deal is on track – there is already an established framework and bipartisan cooperation for deficit reduction in the lame duck.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krawzak, 10/21</span> (Paul M., Congressional Quarterly Staff, “Efforts for Plan to Avoid Fiscal Cliff Pick Up Speed,” CQ TODAY ONLINE NEWS, 2012, [[http://public.cq.com/docs/news/news-000004167600.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the days counting down to the lame-duck session, ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Republican and Democratic </span>lawmakers<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>despite<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their </span>contrasting positions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on taxes and entitlement programs, </span>could build a bridge between<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the House legislation and emerging Senate </span>proposals<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

B. Links: Transportation spending collapses bipartisanship and dooms the deal.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schank, ‘12</span> (Joshua, President and CEO of the Eno Center for Transportation a neutral, non-partisan think-tank, Is Partisanship the Problem?, April 16, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-partisanship-the-problem]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The partisan differences between the parties on the issue of transportation are ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> find ourselves in a better position.</span>

C. Impacts: Sequestration destroys US global military power – collapses deterrence and triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Iranian prolif, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, and Russian military modernization).</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hunter, ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. "SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE," September 30, 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1~~%23article)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To most Americans, the term “sequestration” ...</span> a move that would signal to our friends and enemies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> alike that we uphold our promises and stand ready to defend our interests against any threat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politics DA</span>=== 

A. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform close – Bipartisan, mutual trust between parties.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post, 1/28</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Gerson, op-ed columnist for </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Washington_Post|The Washington Post]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a Policy Fellow with the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ONE_Campaign|ONE Campaign]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a visiting fellow with the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center_for_Public_Justice|Center for Public Justice]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and a former senior fellow at the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Council_on_Foreign_Relations|Council on Foreign Relations]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He served as President </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_W._Bush|George W. Bush]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">'s chief </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speechwriter|speechwriter]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “Does Obama Want a Deal on Immigration?”, //The Washington Post//)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/michael-gerson-on-immigration-obama-has-a-choice-to-make/2013/01/28/6ba788ca-6974-11e2-af53-7b2b2a7510a8_story.html</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">On immigration reform, the divisions have not....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">believe </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">a comprehensive immigration bill could</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;"> possibly </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">pass</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;"> the Senate </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">by July</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

B. Links:

1. Plan guarantees a loss of capital – Transportation infrastructure is uniquely unpopular and Obama get the blame.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubinstein, ’12 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Reporter for Capital New York, has written for Bloomberg, the Wall Street Journal, and the New York Times [Dana Rubenstein “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower moment?” March 27, 2012 http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/03/5524547/when-obama-going-have-his-eisenhower-moment]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Ask a transportation expert who the ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">position on infrastructure funding, going so far as to propose eliminating mass-transit financing entirely</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the gas tax.</span>



2. Political capital is key.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LAHT, 12/31</span> (Latin American Herald Tribune “Obama Ready to Spend Political Capital on Immigration” December 31, 2012. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://laht.com/article.asp?categoryid=12395&articleid=329931]]</span>)



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">President</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Barack </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Obama told</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> Hispanic Democratic </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">legislators...</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">taking into account the opposition of many Republicans and other conservative groups.</span>



Immigration reform key to sustained growth.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kimball, ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Miles Kimball is an economics professor at the University of Michigan, “Obama could really help the US economy by pushing for more legal immigration,” November 7, 2012, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://qz.com/25055/obama-could-really-help-the-us-economy-by-pushing-for-more-legal-immigration/]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)-mikee</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Now is the perfect time for the president...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">from the culturally conservative part of that coalition.</span>




<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Decline in growth causes nuclear war</span>

**Harris and Burrows 9** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, AM)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ...</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Georgia;"> in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Cap K=== 
Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Giddens and Held 82 (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)//RSW//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">7. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Policies which pursue the</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;">....</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> willing and able to defend the reformist policies of the capitalist state against the obstructive resistance of the capitalist class itself.</span>//

//**Capitalism is the driving force behind global wars that will culminate in extinction.**//
//**Callinicos ’04** [Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197]//

//__Capitalism has not changed its spo...__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> There are all too many of this sort around, Marxists content to live off the intellectual credit of Capital, as Trotsky described them. We cannot simply observe the world but must throw ourselves, as Marx did, into the practical task of building a revolutionary party amid the life and struggles of the working class. ‘The philosophers have interpreted the world,’ wrote Marx, ‘the point, however, is to change it.’ If Marxism is correct, then we must act on it.</span>//
//**Alternative text: Reject the affirmative as a means of refusing complicity with capitalism.**//

//**Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities, which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2004 </span>**(James, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])//
//It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, a strategy... Otherwise we are doomed to perpetual slavery and possibly even to// extinction//.

===Hillman=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) Framework</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jung 57 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, __The Undiscovered Self__, New American Library, New York, 81-83)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">For more than fifty years we have known</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">... can happen to everyone.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) War is normal and inevitable – our history is one of wars – between 2 and 3 per year for all of human history</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 17-18)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Halt! Is war abnormal? I find it normal ... salvational aspect of battle</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C) Link: Modern warfare exchanges the battlefield for distant command centers where the enemy can be eliminated with the push of a button – this doesn’t engage our desire to fight - instead of hating war we should embrace it – only then can we repair the psyche</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 90-92)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Why dwell on this archaic god of war when war ... maneuvers of the mind would be enough.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D) Impacts</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peace is merely the absence of war – it leaves us in a state of psychic numbness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 04 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 30-31)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The worst of war is that it ends in ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> which must have so offended Jesus that he declared for a sword.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, that takes out the soul – humans become hollow beings that can’t relate to the world around us</span>
Walter A<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Davis in 2001</span> (//Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative.// State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is never enough</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> however. Inner discord remains</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> articulation in Kant’s struggle with the sublime. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">E) The alternative is to love war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Instead of going to war in the name of peace, we should enter war for war’s own sake. This means setting aside our fear and distaste for conflict so we can imagine ourselves embroiled in beautiful strife.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also, the alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to aff solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society – unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 1-3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">One sentence in one scene from one film, //Patton,// sums up what this book tries to understand. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">That is the purpose of this book.</span>


==CP's== 
===China Fund CP=== 
**The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government _ with those funds.**

**The counterplan competes – tests ‘its’ in the resolution – refers to possession and the necessity of U.S. investment**

**Also severs certainty – the world of the counterplan reserves the possibility of the U.S. saying no – aff certainty is key to avoid aff conditionality which means they can no link out of any DA – crushes ground**
==== ==== 
The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richter, ’11</span> – Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039)
Many Americans might be surprised to hear that this state of affairs leaves China's<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> top </span>leaders concerned that the //U//nited //S//tates is falling too... but //of the entire world economy//. Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.”
===Cost Controls CP=== 
Text: If, and only if, the program cost of Air Traffic System infrastructure does not exceed initial cost estimates by 10 percent or more before completion of such investment, should the United States federal government __. If the program cost does exceed initial cost estimates by 10 percent before completion, the United States federal government should terminate the program.__
__The Counterplan solves and competes – it establishes an explicit cost-threshold for the plan BEFORE implementation__
__**Puentes 2k8** (“A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,” g online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]] //um-ef)//__
//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Lost in the dominant discussion about how much money we are spending on the federal transportation....</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> meeting these accountability standards in order to make it a meaningful process and direct loss of federal funds should be a genuine consequence</span>__//
__//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, 10 percent ought to be the cost-threshold – federal asset programs are the perfect model for the cp</span>//__
__//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GAO ‘97</span>//__
__//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Government Accountability Office, “Transportation Infrastructure Managing the Costs of Large-Dollar Highway Projects,” pg online @ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/155775.pdf]]</span>//um-ef)__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While FHWA’s formal review of safety and quality issues provides opportunities to influence states’ cost management of highway projects</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">, </span>__FHWA has no mandate to....**these cost management concepts could be an appropriate model for management of large-dollar highway projects****.**
__And, failure to build-in a termination condition ensures cost-overruns – the plan’s advantages are gross over-estimations__
**Postrel 11 __[__**__Virginia Postrel writes about commerce and culture, innovation, economics and public policy. She's the author of "The Future and Its Enemies. Postrel was described by Sam Tanenhaus as "a master D.J. who sequences the latest riffs from the hard sciences, the social sciences, business, and technology, to name only a few sources." She has been a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, The Atlantic, The New York Times and Forbes. From July 1989 to January 2000, Postrel was the editor of Reason magazine, which under her leadership was a finalist for the National Magazine Awards three times for essays and public interest journalism. A graduate of Princeton University, she lives in Los Angeles. “Too Many Public Works Built on Rosy Scenarios: Virginia Postrel” Bloomberg, 7/8/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/too-many-public-works-built-on-rosy-scenarios-virginia-postrel.html, accessed 7/17/12]//DLi//__
__//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">“</span>//__//Infrastructure” may be one of the least glamorous words in the English language, but with the right touch...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not reliable,” he says. He quotes an unidentified Chinese colleague who said, “If the party says there’s no cost overrun, there’s no cost overrun.”</span>__//
__//That’s key to solvency and U.S. Economic Competitiveness//__
__//**Puentes 2k8 (“A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,” g online @** [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf|**http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf**]]// **um-ef)**__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Right now, </span>__federal transportation decisionmaking is misaligned __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with the ge....</span>__ **in a way that ensures vitality and competitiveness for the U.S. economy__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, our cities, and our families.</span>
And, failure to restore U.S. competitiveness crushes U.S. primacy—the impact is global war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ‘11</span>
[Zalmay<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Khalilzad</span> was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">faster than ours, and this </span>could alter the global distribution of power.These trends<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span> and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.

===Kappler=== 
Text: We should <INSERT PLAN TEXT EXCLUDING “THE USFG”>

First is solvency -
Recognition of our individual responsibility to affect the world around us is a form of politics that refuses to be complicit with the violence perpetrated by others. Only individual action to resist violence can create change.
<span class="SourcenameChar">Kappeler 95</span> (Susanne now works as a freelance writer and teaches in England and Germany. She is also the author of The Pornography of Representation, __The Will to Violence__, ISBN 9780745613055, pgs 5-7)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A politics aiming at a change in people’s behavior.... ideological structures of thought and discourse in a continual critique of ideology itself</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Next is the net benefit: </span>
The aff engages in organized irresponsibility – claiming that the problems isolated in the 1AC are the product of decisions made by external structures creates a mental deputy politics – we become complacent bystanders too apathetic to create change

<span class="SourcenameChar">Kappeler 95</span> (Susanne now works as a freelance writer and teaches in England and Germany. She is also the author of The Pornography of Representation, __The Will to Violence__, ISBN 9780745613055, pgs 9-11)
War does not suddenly break out in a peaceful society; sexual violence is not the disturbance of otherwise equal gender relations. Racist attacks do not shoot like lightning out of a non-racist sky, and the sexual exploitation...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> We share in the responsibility for this war and its violence in the way we let them grow inside us</span>, that is, in the way we shape 'our feelings, our relationships, our values' according to the structures and the values of war and violence.

The impact is genocide – individual irresponsibility snowballs into community scape-goating – externalizing masses will purge aspects of society deemed undesirable
<span class="SourcenameChar">Colman 95</span> (Arthur D. Colman, M.D., faculty member at the G.C. Jung Institute of San Francisco, professor of Psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco. “Up from Scapegoating.” p. 7-11)
Unity is the important concept in all scapegoating activity; <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the scapegoat represents the group's push toward its own wholeness by excluding its disparate elements</span>. Thus.... attempts at integrating the archetype. We must not only accept our responsibility for the scapegoat, we must do something about it. Individuation under any other terms can be just narcissistic play.
=== === 
===Commissions CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for transportation policy. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. The Commission should recommend to Congress that _</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;"> the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in port security through the Port Security Grant Program.</span>**

=== === 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">The counterplan solves the case</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MPP 08</span>**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Metropolitan Policy Program.Brookings Institute “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking Americas Transportation of the Twentieth Centurywww.brookings.edu/metro)</span>



Congress should authorize a permanent, ... for better management of the metropolitan network.

==Neg Strats== 
===MEADOWS=== 
Round 1: against NextGen
1NC: T - Equipage, Cost Controls, Elections, Cap
2NR: Elections, case

Round 4: against Katrina
1NC: Kappeler, China Fund, Elections, Cap
2NR: Kappeler, case

Round 6: against icebreakers
1NC: T - TI, T - Maintenance, Elections, Cap, China Fund
2NR: Elections, case
===MICHIGAN=== 
Round 2: against Alaska Ports
1NC: T- in "throughout", China Fund, Elections, Sequestration, LOST
2NR: Elections, case

Round 4: against Port Security
1NC: T- Capital Investment, Elections, Commissions, Sequestration
2NR: Sequestration, case

Round 5: against Critical Berin Strait,
1NC: Framework (USFG action,) Cap, Sequestration
2NR: Framework, case
===ALTA=== 
Round 2: against Tohono Natives
1NC: Kappler, Sequestration, China Fund CP
2NR: Kappler, Case

Round 3: against VMT
1NC: China Fund CP, T- vagueness, Sequestration, Commissions CP, Cap
2NR: T, Sequestration, China Fund

Round 5: against Mayport
1NC: T-in throughout, Plan Flaw, T- military, Sequestration, China Fund CP, Aircraft carriers advantage cP
2NR: Sequestration, Case, T

===BLAKE=== 
Round 2: against port security
1NC: Sequestration, Cost Controls, T vagueness, Hillman case
2NR: Sequestration and case

Round 3: against port dredging
1NC: Sequestration, T maintenance, Cost Controls, Hillman
2NR: Hillman

Round 6: against port security
1NC: Sequestration, Cost Controls, T vagueness, Hillman
2NR:Sequestration and case

===GOLDEN DESERT=== 
Round 2: against NIB
1NC: Politics DA, T- direct investment, Commissions CP, XM CP, Case 
2NC: DA, XM, case

Round 3: against Katrina 
1NC: Politics, China Fund CP, Weatherphilia, Kappeler CP, case
2NC: Weatherphilia 

Round 5: against bering strait 
1NC: Politics DA, Hillman, In throughout, Cost controls, case
2NC: Politics DA, case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]