[[toc]]
==Affirmative== 
===Plan=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.</span>


===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Vital</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">successful</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> WMD attack are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">high</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">-</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cost and technology aren’t barriers</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Markey et al, ’12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.
<span class="Heading4Char"> </span>
<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Solutions exist</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> but __drastic__ cuts to the Port Security Grant Program __destroy port security__</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”


<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Only</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> more grant investment in infrastructure can solve </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]].
In the decade since Sept. 11, 2001, America's seaports and the federal
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."




===Advantage 1=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Increase __federal__ port __funding__ //this year// is vital – otherwise key gaps will crush ports </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nagle and Bridges, 10-5</span>-12 – Nagle serves as the president and CEO, American Association of Port Authorities. Bridges serves as the executive director, Virginia Port Authority and chairman, American Association of Port Authorities. “America's seaports critical to US jobs, economy,” The Hill, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/campaign/260527-americas-seaports-critical-to-us-jobs-economy]].
With the cooler temperatures of fall now upon us, retailers across the country have
AND
move goods throughout the country and beyond for many more years to come.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cybersecurity</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pandemics</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> at ports //instantly// kill __billions__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States. Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Natural disasters</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]</span>] 
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Transnational threats</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> are __try or die__ __for human extinction__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
The neoconservative movement thrilled to what it called the "unipolar moment." After the
AND
an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.

<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Only</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective// __risk management__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pertaining to the
AND
September 2011. For questions, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.

===<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Advantage 2</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on LNG terminals </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">It’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">empirically proven</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> that these forms of infrastructure are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">highly-targeted</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
3.2.2.1 Critical Coastal Targets. Maritime terrorism has hit
AND
security systems. These new regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">LNG</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.


===Advantage 3=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">A //single// maritime attack causes __global embargoes__ that wreck __hegemony__ and __growth__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Flynn, ‘3</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, , Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Fragile State of Container Security,” Written Testimony before a hearing of theU.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, [[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]].
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman and Gary Hart in preparing
AND
—as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Two impacts</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">: </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">a. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hegemony</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> – port closures //wreck// American access to </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">East Asia</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D., Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.) Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR , “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards,” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/border-and-ports/port-security-still-house-cards/p9629]].
Though advocates for more open global markets rarely acknowledge it, when it comes to
AND
the global trade system, and East Asia has the most to lose.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scholarly consensus</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> agrees East Asia is the __most vital region__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Tierney et al, ‘9</span>. Michael J. Tierney, director of international relations and Weingartner associate professor of government, all at the College of William and Mary. Amy Oakes, an assistant professor of government, Susan Peterson, dean of undergraduate studies and professor of government, and Daniel Maliniak, a Ph.D. student at U.C. San Diego. “Inside the Ivory Tower,” Foreign Policy, March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4685&print=1]].
Public Enemy No. 1 Political pundits and journalists may buzz reflexively over the latest
AND
reported it would be the region of greatest strategic importance in 20 years.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Chinese power causes __great power war__ and __collapses institutions__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan, ‘12</span>, Robert, senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution [“Why the World Needs America,” February 11th, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]]]
With the outbreak of World War I, the age of settled peace and advancing
AND
what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cross apply Feffer 9 from NPG- Global institutions are vital to preventing __extinction__ </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">b. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Global Finance</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> – seaports are the </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">most important determinant</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> of </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">growth</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> and </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">trade</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Seaports are arguably the most critical nodes in the global supply-chain and hence
AND
number should be between 50,000 and 1,000,000.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">It drives </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">one-third</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> of the global economy – ports are the //most// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">valuable</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> and </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">vulnerable</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> targets</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
Today a third of the world economy, and a quarter of America’s, depends
AND
pound nuclear weapon could be delivered to the seaport and detonated before unloading.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Growth prevents nuclear warfare – history proves </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mead 9</span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance and prospects of India and China,
AND
policy far more severely than any mistake made by George W. Bush.
It's not just the great powers whose trajectories have been affected by the crash.
AND
global economic downturn force the government to rein in its expansionary fiscal policy.
All this has weakened Ahmadinejad at home and Iran abroad. Iranian officials must balance
AND
negotiations with Iran (and Syria) from a position of enhanced strength.
Every crisis is different, but there seem to be reasons why, over time
AND
market economy within an appropriately liberal legal and political framework are relatively strong.
But, in many other countries where capitalism rubs people the wrong way, this
AND
are quick to decide that capitalism is a failure and look for alternatives.
So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work;
AND
the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As a result, developing countries and </span>countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--as, inevitably, it does. And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth. This may be happening yet again.</span>
None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession.
AND
list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises.
Bad economic times can //breed wars//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born?</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States may not, yet, decline, but, </span>if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Free trade creates __structural disincentives__ against war and it’s __reverse-causal__</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Griswold, ‘11</span> – Daniel, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at Cato. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal, v9, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20/|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf ]]
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.

====Economic competitiveness prevents major power wars and miscalc – growth differential.==== 
Stephen M. **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Walt</span>**, Spring **<span style="font-size: 16px;">2002</span>**, professor of international affairs at Harvard, professor of political science at the University of Chicago, assistant professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, guest scholar at Brookings, associate at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “American Primacy,” Naval War College Review
A second consequence of U.S. primacy is a decreased danger of great
AND
does not need to go to war and weaker states dare not try.

Miscalculation and irrationality make nuclear war inevitable 

Hellman, 86 (Martin E.
AND
nuclear war virtually inevitable. We cannot continue on our present course forever.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The __technology__ exists to solve but __federal commitment__ doesn’t – __delay__ is //fatal// </span>




==Negative== 
===Bonds CP – 1nc=== 

====Text: The United States federal government should issue taxable municipal bonds to provide a 35% credit to the issuer of investment in Next-Generation air-traffic.==== 

====It __solves__ by facilitating development of the Aff but doesn’t fund it==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, ’12</span> – (WITH THE COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS) – “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” March 23, http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf
Many studies have found evidence of large private sector productivity gains from public ¶ infrastructure
AND
through 2010 in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Reinstatement of
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the BABs program is proposed in the President’s Budget</span>.

====It is mutually exclusive – municipal bonds //aid// and //encourage// investment but it’s __solely__ beyond the government==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EdwardJones, ’12</span>* – Investment firm, “Build America Bonds (Taxable Municipal Bonds)” *Note – 2012 is the copyright date, no “published” date is published on the site. https://www.edwardjones.com/en_US/products/investments/fixed_income/build_america_bonds/index.html
Description ¶ Build America Bonds (BABs) are a federal program to aid in
AND
bonds called prior to maturity may result in reinvestment risk for the bond owner

==1NC Shell== 
====Their security reps are inaccurate and cause action-reaction cycles. Such cycles are the root of violence and make extinction inevitable.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian 98</span> (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)

No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch, nor commands the disciplinary
AND
on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.

====Vote Neg to reject the dominant framing of security. A renewed focus on the epistemological and representational security lens is a prerequisite to effective policy solutions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bruce ‘96</span>
(Robert, Associate Professor in Social Science – Curtin University and Graeme Cheeseman, Senior Lecturer – University of New South Wales, Discourses of Danger and Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of
AND
resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?
===O Win- 1NC Card=== 
====Obama will win- recent polling in swing states but it could change==== 
Nate <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver, 11-1</span>-2012 [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/11/01/oct-31-obamas-electoral-college-firewall-holding-in-polls/?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter]]

Meanwhile, Mr. Obama continues to hold the lead in the vast majority of
AND
are plenty of things that could go wrong, and sometimes they will.

====Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__.==== 
**Orski ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

====GOP win causes Iran strikes==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dilek 9-20</span>-11 (Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/, jj)

All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran Prepare yourself my fellow Americans. If you
AND
his assertion, I believe Americans are fed up with the unending wars.

====Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chossudovsky -06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)</span>
The Bush Administration has embarked upon a military adventure which threatens the future of humanity
AND
basin, eventually leading to the destabilization and conquest of the Russian Federation.