[[toc]]
Sahil Shah- 1N/2A
Viraj Patel- 1A/2N

NOTE: We are from McDonogh, and we take a world language class called "Abelism", taught by the great George Thomas, so people with those Abelism files... you know what to do ;))

NOTE: We are leading the state of Maryland in state wins in a state where the great Centennial MK, River Hill SS, River Hill CL, Centennial PK, Reservoir RS, and Baltimore City College BM debate. Be scared. Be very scared.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">ALSO NOTE: This boast will no longer be valid as of next Saturday.</span>

ALSO ALSO NOTE: Centennial MK does not bother subjecting itself to going to state tournaments where the judging is scarier than this McDonogh team and would rather spend their time preparing for real tournaments

ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: River Hill SS has better uses of their time, rather than hitting the same team three times in one day to become #1 in the state.

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: River Hill CL doesn't approve of this and has dispatched a team of Walter White/Heisenberg, ninjas, and Bane to destroy McDonogh SP along with the Serial Groper.
[[#htmldiff1]]
ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: Baltimore City College is too busy reppin' out the UDL while forming the Young-BCC alliance, and is running after the train that has left the station thus has no time to go to state tournaments

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: Centennial PK has caught mononucleosis and will no longer be able to debate

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: To the Walter White/ Heisenberg threat Cancer most def thumps that. As far as ninjas go Michael Koo is basically the only frightening Asian we know (but he plays lacrosse so that makes him automatically white) and Bane (Sumon Chaki) has lost all credibility because his impression is starting to sound HORRIBLE. Good Day

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: In reaction to this deceitful statistic, Reservoir RS (Smith TBD) has declined to attend any further debate competitions and now will be participating in children's literature.

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: Smith squared rejects your futile attempts to insult us with your childrens literature nonsense, the time cube will be at your homes in a few hours for your judgement. And for your sake I hope you survive.

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: This wiki is the product of wasted time, we will defeat you at the state tournaments because we are forced to go and we WILL read 32 off......be prepared.....

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: No BCFL this weekend... McDonogh SP holds the lead... looks like Walter White/Heisenberg, ninjas, and Bane were too busy trying to catch the train that already left the station. Better luck next time

ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO ALSO NOTE: Symon Zhu- "fuck it"
http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2012-2013+-+Atholton+%28MD%29+-+Isabel+Slavinsky+%26+Simon+Zhu

DO NOT Email spshah@mcdonogh.org for any cite requests you do not want
ONLY email advait.ramanan@gmail.com if you do not want cites
=Affirmative= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wake</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Wake-1AC – Econ]]1AC – DeDev</span>== 

<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Double dip recession is coming next year – only domestic growth efforts solve – none of their resiliency or alt cause claims apply.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sivy, ‘8/28</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [August 28, 2012, Michael Sivy is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition. Sivy has appeared as a stock-market commentator on television, including the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. In addition, he has been heard on NPR's All Things Considered, PRI's Marketplace and on the CBS Radio network. “Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?”, [[http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In addition to a host of warnings, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">last Wednesday’s Congressional Budget Office report did contain a little bit of good news... Having failed to rebound when the weather was more favorable, the U.S. economy is hardly likely to do any better as storm clouds start rolling in.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ‘</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">8 [October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America's geostrategic dominance likely to diminish? If so, what would that mean?...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global economic decline escalates tension – causes nuclear war.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris and Burrows, ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ITS deployment is key to the economy – reduces congestion, solves job growth, and leads to high paying jobs – state budget crisis means only federal role solves.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Keeling and Mooney, ‘11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for Business Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth”[[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">High unemployment, languid economic growth and growing urbanization make transport’s role in driving growth more important than ever. .... These high-paying earners have a positive impact on the economy via the goods and services they purchase and those employed to provide them.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ITS deployment creates hundreds of thousands of small business jobs and high tech jobs</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Belcher, ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (December 4, 2009 Scott Belcher, CEO and President, Intelligent Transportation Society of America, represents several hundred member organizations including public agencies, private industry leaders, and academic institutions involved in the research, development, and deployment of intelligent transportation systems that improve safety, increase mobility, and sustain the environment, “Congress: Invest in Intelligent Transportation Systems to create jobs”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/70623-congress-invest-in-intelligent-transportation-systems-to-create-jobs]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As Congressional leaders work to craft a jobs package that will address our nation’s alarming unemployment levels, they would do well to invest in Intelligent Transportation Systems (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">ITS</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">) and other transportation projects that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">will modernize our nation’s aging infrastructure </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and improve the performance of our multimodal transportation systems. I... It will also provide lasting benefits by increasing safety, reducing congestion and emissions, improving system performance and creating more livable, sustainable communities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Small Businesses and Job growth are key to economic recovery competitiveness.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Di Leo and Trindle, ‘11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Luca Di Leo and Jamila Trindle, “Bernanke: Small Businesses Important To Economic Recovery,”[[http://www.nasdaq.com/aspx/stock-market-news-story.aspx?storyid=201111090944dowjonesdjonline000483&title=bernankesmall-businesses-important-to-economic-recovery]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Small businesses are important to the economic recovery and to U.S. global competitiveness</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Bernanke said</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Wednesday in welcoming remarks at a Fed conference on small business entrepreneurship during the recovery.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> ..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the NFIB survey showed. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Hiring prospects</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> also </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">remained dim last month, with only 3% of firms saying they plan to add employees to their workforce, down one percentage point from September and in line with the weak average seen over the past six months.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Wake-1AC – Terror]]1AC – Terror</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Al-Qaeda has capability and motive to develop nuclear and biological weapons – America will be targeted.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Telegraph, ‘11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [February 2, 2011, Heidi Blake was The Daily Telegraph's Investigative Reporter until November 2011. She was nominated for Young Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the 2010 British Press Awards having joined the paper in 2008. Christopher Hope writes for The Telegraph. “WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'”[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html|**http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html**]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">leading atomic regulator has privately warned that the world stands on the brink of a "nuclear 9/11"</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. •..The alarming disclosures come after President Barack Obama last year declared nuclear terrorism "the single biggest threat" to international security with the potential to cause "extraordinary loss of life".</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Probability of nuclear acquisition is high</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mowatt-Larssen, ‘10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [January 2010, Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, former Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, U.S. Department of Energy, former Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, Counter-terrorist Center, Central Intelligence Agency, recipient of the CIA Director’s Award, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, “Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Osama </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">bin Ladin’s assertion in 1998 that it was his Islamic duty to acquire weapons of mass destruction ensured that the fulfillment of this intent would become a top priority for his lieutenants in the ensuing years</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">If anything, the biases in WMD terrorism analysis tilt towards treating the absence of information as an absence of threat; this could become a vulnerability in the defenses, considering the very real possibility that there may be a terrorist plot in motion that has not been found</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terror attack’s inevitable now</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Russia Joint Threat Assessment, ‘11</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 3pt;">(May 2011, ABOUT THE U.S.-RUSSIA JOINT THREAT ASSESSMENT ON NUCLEAR TERRORISM The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism is a collaborative project of Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and the U.S.A. and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences led by Rolf Mowatt-Larssen and Pavel Zolotarev. Authors: • Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. • Colonel Yuri Morozov (retired Russian Armed Forces). Professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 1995–2000. • Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, 2005–2008. • Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Moscow-based defense and security expert and writer, 1993–2008. • William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and director of the U.S.-Russia Initiative to Prevent Nuclear Terrorism, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. • Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. • Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. Contributor: • Vladimir Lukov, director general of autonomous non-profit organization “Counter-Terrorism Center.”, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The expert community distinguishes pathways terrorists might take to the bomb</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (discussed in detail in the next section of the report). ... If current approaches toward eliminating the threat are not replaced with a sense of urgency and resolve, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the question will become not if, but when, where, and on what scale the first act of nuclear terrorism occurs</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terror causes extinction</span>

<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morgan, ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Dennis, Professor at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, November, Science Direct]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our transportation infrastructure is vulnerable – plan solves.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zeng, ‘7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [September 2007, Daniel Zeng, University of Arizona, Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sudarshan S. Chawathe, University of Maine, Hua Huang, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Fei-Yue Wang, Chinese Academy of Sciences “Protecting Transportation Infrastructure”, From the article “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, [[http://www.its.washington.edu/itsc/v9n3.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Effective information sharing across datasets and system boundaries, t..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, with careful attention to laws and regulations, privacy considerations, and civil rights.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Al Qaeda is planning biological attacks AND developing weapons is easy and hard to detect.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Garrett, ‘12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Within government circles around the world, the announcement has highlighted a dilemma: ..Along with several older studies that are now garnering fresh attention, it has revealed that the political world is completely unprepared for the synthetic-biology revolution.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bioterror is highly likely by the end of 2013 – only federal rapid response detection prevents the attack from getting out of control.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gerstein, ‘10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2010, Dr. Daniel Gerstein is a Strategist and Policy Expert with significant operational experience. He has written extensively about national security, “Bioterror in the Age of Biotechnology” [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/gerstein.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Commission believes that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">unless the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> world </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">community acts decisively and with great urgency,.. However, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">we control our own destiny with regard to protecting populations and mounting an effective response and recovery.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> All indications are that the time to prepare is now.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bioweapons escalation causes extinction– this evidence assumes all their defense.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kellman, ‘8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [May-June 2008, Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law, THE FUTURIST, World Future Society, [[http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">A looming danger confronts the world—the threat of bioviolence. It is a danger that will only grow in the future, yet we are increasingly failing to confront it. ...Here are the challenges to international peace and security at the beginning of the third millennium. Failing to do the right thing in response to these challenges could have dire consequences for all humanity.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Retaliation and tension from the terrorist attack would escalate to nuclear war</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayson, ‘10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. In</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan solves nuclear terror and bioterror.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pincus, ‘11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,[[http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A variety of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">sensors</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> deployed on the transportation infrastructure can help </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">provide an early warning system to detect large-scale emergencies including natural disasters ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The freeway management chapter discusses how lane management techniques such as reversible flow lanes are often used for evacuation during emergencies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the plan:</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in Intelligent Transportation Systems Infrastructure in the United States.</span>**

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Wake-1AC – Solvency]]1AC – Solvency</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">States cannot do ITS even if they have the funds – no work capacity</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">GAO, ’12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [March 2012, US Government Accountability Office, “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS Improved DOT Collaboration and Communication Could Enhance the Use of Technology to Manage Congestion”, [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589430.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">ITS is a rapidly developing field that requires a specialized workforce familiar with emerging technologies. ..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">According to this official, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">this makes it difficult to complete ITS projects even when funds for projects are available.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ITS technology must be developed at the national level – integration and coordination</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ezell, ’10 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation,[[http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At the outset, this report provided a taxonomy classifying ITS applications into five categories. ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> thus requiring extensive system coordination—often needed at the national level—to deploy and integrate ITS systems. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smart antennas are key – increases coverage range and data rate – solves interference</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kandar et al ‘8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2008, Sourav Dhar Kandar, Computer Science and Engineering at SKP Engineering College, Debdattta Kandar, Tanushree Bose and Rabindranath Bera Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology, Smart Antenna Based Broadband communication in Intelligent Transportation system, [[http://arxiv.org/pdf/0903.3163.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Broadband wireless systems play an increasingly important role in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intelligent Transportation Systems (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">ITS) ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> also known as Spatial Division Multiple Access can be implemented in the same cell, further increasing spectral efficiency.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US falling behind – Federal deployment is Key</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ezell, ’10 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation,[[http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In contrast to Japan, South Korea, and Singapore, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">theUnited States lags world leaders in aggregate ITS deployment, ... connected intoa nationally integrated intelligent transportation system.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Countries are developing ITS technology globally – the US is falling behind</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ezell, ’10 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation,[[http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But while intelligent transportation systems face a number of challenges, n...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">at the cutting edge of predictive traffic flow modeling based on the use of historic and real-time traffic data.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation bill should’ve triggered their Disads.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">CMAP, ‘7/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [July 5, 2012, Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning is the official regional planning organization for the northeastern Illinois counties region's addressing transportation, housing, economic development, open space, the environment, and other quality-of-life, “MAP-21 -- Major Programmatic and Policy Changes” [[http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/policy-updates/-/blogs/map-21-major-programmatic-and-policy-changes]]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Total Funding Levels</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> a...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">under SAFETEA-LU.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But Map-21 still doesn’t solve ITS – it only sustains current research funding.</span>
<span class="TagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">RITA, ’12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [August 2012, Research and Innovative Technology Administration US DOT, “ITS JPO Newsletter August 2012”,[[http://www.its.dot.gov/newsletter/august2012.htm]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Last month, Co... funding levels.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Georgetown]]Georgetown</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Georgetown-Economy]]Economy</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">No efforts to protect US transportation infrastructure from climate now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Neumann, ’09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The federal government i...</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">shovel</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 12pt;">‐</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">ready is</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> almost certainly </span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">not climate</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 12pt;">‐</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">ready.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">And, warming isn’t a debate—positive feedbacks and existing emissions mean its inevitable</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 [[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to human activities. ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Climate change will destroy our transportation infrastructure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz, ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The transportation planners, designers, and operators ...</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">transportation network </span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">of this country.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Collapses growth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Little, ‘11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [04/05/11, Richard Little is the Director of the Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The massive network of seaports... and its consequences.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation—escalates</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows, ‘09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Broad studies prove our argument</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Royal, ‘10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how ... to those views.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Growth makes war impossible</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux, professor of economics, ‘06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [10/20/06, Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">During the past 30 years... harm to these foreigners. </span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Georgetown-Scenario 1- Highways]]Scenario 1- Highways</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Highways are at risk from climate change impacts – storm surge, flooding, and erosion will cause bottlenecks that exacerbate the pressure on the system</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As in most parts of the nation, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> was restored over time (Gaspard et al., 2007).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">First highways—they are key to demand, business productivity, manufacturing industry—empirical research proves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Keane ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Thomas P. Keane is an economist in FHWA's Office of Policy Development. He works both in research relating to the economic impacts of highway infrastructure investment and on the FHWA Congestion Pricing Team in the areas of variable tolling and parking pricing issues. He has been employed by FHWA since November 1990. He has a master's degree in applied economics from the University of Maryland. “The Economic Importance of the National Highway System,” Federal Highway Administration, Initially written in 1996, Updated 4/08/11 [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm]]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">When transportation decision-makers </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a... on-site, highway construction jobs nationally.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Highway failure collapses the manufacturing industry—investment independently revitalizes it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hermann, ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector”, pg lexis]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure Investment = A Healthy Economy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">T...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> leadership in infrastructure;</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Manufacturing is critical to US defense industrial base</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Thompson, ’11 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, “Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,”,[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Last week, the federal government reported ...decline in manufacturing.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">That’s key to US deterrence posture</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Eaglen and Sayer, ’09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, “Maintaining the Superiority of America’s Defense Industrial Base,” pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Foundation ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> potential operations</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Credible deterrence solves global nuclear wars.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Paul </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” 3/22/20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">01</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,[[http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I served ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">our hands</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Georgetown-Scenario 2- Ports]]Scenario 2- Ports</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Storm surge and sea level rise from climate change decimates ports and waterways – they are critical to the economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Due to their location...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">prohibitively higher</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">And port infrastructure is the vital internal link for US agriculture competitiveness – freight movement and exports</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Khachatryan and Casavant ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [7/19/11 Hayk Khachatryan is a Research Associate and Director. Ken Casavant is the Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity “THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE,”[[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The efficient and ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> through the 16 ports.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">That’s key to global food production</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Stulp, ’09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [3/20/2009, John Stulp is an agriculture commissioner in Colorado, “America’s economy needs farmers,” [[http://www.journal-advocate.com/news/2009/mar/20/americas-economy-needs-farmers]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">farmers</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and ranchers ... American every day.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">These conflicts will escalate – compromise is simply impossible in a world of resource shortage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Vatkiotis 08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-- Asia regional director for the Geneva-based Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, Michael, 05/28, New Straits Times, “A hungry world tests skills of peacemakers,” Lexis,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE food price ... popular grievances.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Food crises escalate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Calvin, ‘02</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons,[[http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The population-crash ...the North Atlantic.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Georgetown-Solvency]]Solvency</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Federal action is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Smith, ’10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”,[[http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The federal government ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">interagency efforts.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Adaptation measures solve – asset management framework can create data to make infrastructure resilient and save costs in the long run</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Neumann, ’09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Providing information on ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> designing these assets with shorter lives.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Adaptation measures solve – maintaining, hardening, redundancy, and reallocation, only way to stop destruction of infrastructure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">BPC, ‘09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue;">[[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">range of adaptation a...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> will shift. </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x2AC Add-ons (Climate)]] </span>= 

=Negative= 
I'll post the 1NC shells when I have time, everything else is upon request

=Neg Rounds= 
**Wake Forest**
Round 1 (Alpharetta SH): Aff- Port Security, Neg- T, Elections DA, States CP, Economic Rationality K
Round 3 (Niles BG): Aff- Port Security, Neg- T, Elections DA, States CP, Economic Rationality K

**Georgetown (Sahil only)**
Round 1 (Carrolton): Aff- Icebreakers, Neg- T, Race K, Elections DA, States CP, 2NR- T
Round 4 (Lexington KK): Aff- Guam, Neg- T, Race K, Elections DA, States CP, 2NR- T
Round 6 (BCC novice): Aff- HSR, Neg- T, Race K, Elections DA, States CP, 2NR- Elections DA/Case

**BCFL #1**
Round 1 (BCC novice): Aff- Neoliberalism, Neg- DBE CP, Elections DA, F/W, 2NR- DBE CP
Round 3 (BCC novice): Aff- Neoliberalism, Neg- DBE CP, No Child Left Behind CP, Capitalism K, 2NR- F/W

**Capitol Classic**
Round 1 (BCC novice): Aff- Neoliberalism, Neg- F/W, DBE CP, NCLB CP, Capitalism K, 2NR- F/W
Round 3 (SPARKY): Aff- Climate Adaptation, Neg- States CP, Elections DA, Race K, 2NR- Elections DA/Case
Round 5 (BCC novice): Aff- Neoliberalism, Neg- F/W, Elections DA, DBE CP, NCLB CP, 2NR- F/W

**BCFL #2**
Round 1 (BCC GB): Aff- New Orleans, Neg- F/W, New Orleans Counter-Advocacy, 2NR- Counter-Advocacy

**Scranton**
Round 2 (River Hill KS): Aff- Mass Transit, Neg- States CP, Politics DA, Virillo K, 2NR- States CP/Politics DA
Round 3 (Stuyvesant): Aff- JDDSP (Econ/Heg), Neg- Race K, 2NR- Race K
Round 6 (NICK ZHANG <3): Aff- NIB, Neg- Race K, 2NR- Race K
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]