=**September-October**= 
==**AFF**== 
**Merriam Webster defines ought as used to express obligation thus the value of the round is morality**

//The social contract legitimizes the state whilst creating a universal code of morality and correspondingly a standard for obligation//

**Scanlon Explains**
An act is wrong if its performance under the circumstances would be disallowed by any set of principles for the general regulation of behavior that no one could reasonably reject as a basis for informed, unforced, general agreement.

**Scanlon Continues**
a person’s complaint against a principle must have to do with its effects on him or her, and someone can reasonably reject a principle if there is some alternative to which no other person has a complaint that is as strong. (ibid.)
__(Scanlon 1998, p. 153).__

Furthermore contractualism fuctions by presuming the value of the individual
//Ashford, Elizabeth and Mulgan, Tim, "Contractualism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2012 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2012/entries/contractualism/>.//

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Reasonable rejection allows contractualism to be universalized</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Finlayson (What Are Universalizable Interests'? by James Gordon Finlayson University of Sussex, Philosophy , Faculty Member)</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">For a moral system to function it must be universalizable</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">REATH</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Andrews Reath, “Formal Approaches to Kant’s Formula of Humanity,” 2009 (To appear in Sorin Baiasu and Mark Timmons, eds, Kant on Practical Justification: Interpretive Essays (Oxford University Press)</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Greatest individual harms justify reasonable rejection</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Paul Kelleher Reasonable Rejection and Redundancy Thursday, 3 April 2008</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Without due process individuals are subject to false conviction and execution, this is grounds for reasonable rejection of the squo</span>

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">The standard for this round is the rejection of maxims that create individual harms</span>**

===Contention level cut from Lexington JC=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, the NDAA permits indefinite detention of noncitizens based on executive discretion, barring the right to due process and trial.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The National Defense Authorization Act. H.R. 1540, 112 Cong. (2011) (enacted). Print. "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Section 1021."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, even if non-citizens are granted trial, military tribunals restrict access to adequate legal counsel, denying them a fair trial to defend themselves. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tova Andrea Wang, Senior Program Officer and Democracy Fellow at The Century Foundation. "The Military Tribunals Debate." The Century Foundation. 2003.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lower standards for evidence increase the likelihood of wrongful conviction. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of judicial review prevents any recourse in wrongful convictions. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG 3</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fifth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of public trials and civilian jury for non-citizens subverts transparency and public scrutiny, skewing trial decisions. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TURNER</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SERRIN TURNER, Harvard Law School, Associate Counsel for the Liberty & National Security Project at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law, and STEPHEN J. SCHULHOFER, Robert B. McKay Professor of Law at NYU Law School. "THE SECRECY PROBLEM IN TERRORISM TRIALS." LIBERTY & NATIONAL SECURITY PROJECT. BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE AT NYU SCHOOL OF LAW. 2005.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sixth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, only civilian courts have a multiple safeguards to prevent intelligence leak and promotes the use of high quality evidence, improving fair trial procedures. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TURNER 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seventh</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, constitutional law and historical precedent mandate that non-citizens receive the same due process protections as citizens- any alternative lacks the fair standards of civilian court. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">COLE</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Cole, Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?.” Georgetown Law Faculty Publications. March 2010.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eighth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, violations of due process open the door for additional restrictions of civil liberties. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MORELAND</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas H. Moreland, Chair of Committee on Federal Courts. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts. THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR. 2004. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ninth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of due process undermines credibility of the rule of law and encourages other countries to uphold the same standards of unfair treatment for U.S. citizens. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RADDACK</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jesselyn A. Radack. "You Say Defendant, I Say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process." Review of Law & Social Change. Volume 29. 2005.</span>
==== ==== 
==Neg== 

See Lexington JC: NSC CP
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">November-December</span>= 
==Aff== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">The World Health Report clarifies universal health care</span>**
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**World Health Organization**. http://www.who.int/whr/2010/en/index.html</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The standard is maximizing expected wellbeing.</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">aff only has to defend access i.e. the government provides affordable healthcare not a mandate for everyone to purchase healthcare</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Universal health care solves. I advocate a single payer system that extends coverage to the current uninsured. MCCALLY explains </span>**

D__r. Michael McCally, Professor in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, Oregon. Single Payer National Health Insurance published by the Willamette University Health Journal__


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Funding comes from already existing programs. MCCALLY 2</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, empirical analysis shows that single-pay provides more efficient care than status quo. MCCALLY 3</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, only single payer provides universal access without raising costs, prefer my evidence – nine independent studies all generated the same conclusions. MCCALLY 4</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, the entire system will be cheaper so there’s no harm to the wealthy. The savings of foregoing needed services outweigh the costs. DEGRAZIA 08</span>**
David DeGrazia, “Single Payer Meets Managed Competition: The Case for Public Funding and Private Delivery,” The Hastings Center Report, Vol. 38, No. 1 (Jan. - Feb., 2008), pp. 23-33

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And, single-payer saves billions annually</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> FRIEDMAN 12</span>
Gerald Friedman. Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. Economy in Numbers. "Funding a national single-Payer system, "Medicare for all" would save billions, and could be redistributive." Dollars and Sense. March/April 2012.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, there's no waiting lists; the government can subsidize important treatments while placing co-pays on more mundane ones to discourage free-riding, so there's no waiting times or overuse, empirically proven by the French system.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">KLEIN 07</span>**__
Ezra Klein**,** Editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg. His work focuses on domestic and economic policymaking, as well as the political system that's constantly screwing it up]. The Health of Nations: How Europe, Canada, and our own VA do health care better. The Prospect. April 22, 2007.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, almost 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance. CECERE 09</span>**
Harvard Gazette. "New Study Finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of coverage." David Cecere. Cambridge Health Alliance. Thursday, September 17, 2009.

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pandemics</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Universal health care solves disease outbreaks through preventive care- key to long term solvency. SKLAR</span>**
(Holly 2002, Coauthor of “Raise the Floor”, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Rolling the Dice on Our Nations’ Health”, December 19, [[http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.htm]])

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, pandemics cause mass death. GREGER 06</span>**
**Michael Greger**, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Society of the U.S. & Graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine. "Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching." 2006.

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">UNDERVIEW: </span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Affirming is the best way to preserve autonomy. When uninsured people are ill, they impose the costs on those around them- any means based standard collapses into util since harms are inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MENZEL AND LIGHT</span>**
Paul Menzel and Donald Light, Professor of Philosophy at Pacific Lutheran University. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care. Hastings Center Report. July-August 2006.

==Neg== 
**Morality is based upon the protection of autonomy**
__<span class="s1">**Immanuel Kant,**</span><span class="s2"> **Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals**</span>__

**The government serves to protect basic rights, anything beyond that violates autonomy**
__<span class="s1">**Nozick,** </span><span class="s2">**Robert Nozick Anarchy, State, and Utopia**</span>__

**All autonomous individuals possess the right to property and self ownership**
__<span class="s1">**Hans-Hermann Hoppe, Professor Emeritus of Economics at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Distinguished Fellow with the Ludwig von Mises Institute. “State or Private-Law Society." May 09, 2011.**</span>__

**Argumentation must presume autonomy**
__<span class="s1">**Stephan Kinsella, Friday, May 27, 2011, Argumentation Ethics and Liberty: A Concise Guide.**</span>__

**Redistributive taxation is a violation of autonomy**
__<span class="s1">**TESON MAY 19, 2011 Kant: Libertarian or Progressive? Fernando Teson has served as a Professor of Law and Affiliate Professor of Philosophy at Arizona State University**</span>__

**“The general welfare” is an umbrella term that is expanded on through the constitution, it does not grant the government unlimited power to act in order to maintain the welfare of the citizens the US constitution does not allow taxation for the purposes of health care**
__<span class="s1">**James Madison Federalist Paper 41**</span>__

**Universal health care will necessarily increase taxes**
__<span class="s1">**Jarret B. Wollstein**</span>__

**And, redistribution is aggression through forced labor.**
__**NOZICK 2**__