JARC:
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, [[http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/]], AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No disads---funding now, but just not enough</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these policy areas….</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> local transportation services for the working poor</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lack of funding dooms 70,000 annually</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 11 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html]], AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in our 12-person … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">vs. 10.6 admissions per 10,000 population).</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 2 IS APARTHEID</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THE FIRST INTERNAL LINK IS FEDERAL DISINVESTMENT---</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes economic inequality</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is a necessary response for ending the current form of inequality</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Grengs 5 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical working</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> harm those who depend most on good transit</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is militarism and degraded quality of life</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> at the Graduate Center of the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE SECOND INTERNAL LINK IS EXCLUSION---</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public in the U</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…. **transit can serve as a viable substitute for the automobile**</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 7 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily lives of everyone…. from expanding suburban job centers.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---solves exclusion</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized or normalized racism…exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Talvitie 12** Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> BJM</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Prediction is central to planning. …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __unreal and both are being challenged.__</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Purely conjoining together link claims only makes predictions less likely and misdirects resources – policy analysis suffers from conjunctive fallacy that relies on a flawed methodology</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Berube 2k</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (David M Berube, PhD, and Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the Univ of South Carolina. “Debunking Mini-Max Reasoning: The Limits of Extended Causal Chains in Contest Debating” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 21(2000). Online PDF.) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">What was a knotty piece of evidence … </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">literally begs the question of equivocation</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>

PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD INCREASE NECESSARY INVESTMENT FOR THE NEXT GENERATION AIR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM IN THE UNITED STATES.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of funding will prevent NextGen, a plan to revolutionize the airline industry, from implementation.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holeywell and Lippman 12</span>


====Air traffic will double and bring a total system collapse absent ATC upgrades==== 

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13pt;">Williams 9 </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">(Genevra, J.D. Candidate at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law and B.B.A. from the University of Iowa, “GPS For The Sky: A Survey of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-(ADS-B) and its Implementation in the United States”, Journal of Air Law and Commerce, Spring, 74 J. Air L. & Com. 473, Lexis)</span>



=Advantage 1: Economy= 



**Recession coming now – recent jobs reports and economic indicators**

**Roberts, 8/22** [2012, Lance, Streettalk advisors, “No Recession Now, but When?” http://pragcap.com/no-recession-now-but-when]


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We improve the economy.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1st Internal Link: Jobs</span>**

NextGen boosts business productivity – creating jobs and improving the economy

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calio 11</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]</span>

**NextGen reduces congestion and adds billions to the economy**
**Zogg 2011** [8/28, Andrew B. Zogg, Zogg is a vice president at Raytheon Network Centric Systems, where he has held a number of roles, including responsibility for development, delivery and support for both military and civil customers with integrated networked command and control systems. Raytheon is a leading partner in the Federal Aviation Administration’s NextGen air traffic management modernization program. The Hill’s Congress Blog “Solving commercial aviation's $27 billion 'weather problem'”
[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/246101-solving-commercial-aviations-27-billion-weather-problem]]]

**NextGen will reduce congestion and boost efficiency**
**NAANG 8/27** [The National Alliance for the Advancement of NextGen “Nationwide NextGen Alliance Surpasses 1,000 Members” PR Newswire, The Sacremento Bee, http://www.sacbee.com/2012/08/17/4735455/nationwide-nextgen-alliance-surpasses.html]

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2nd Internal Link: Total Gridlock</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without an investment in NextGen, aviation collapse is inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kramer 5/22</span>
[Hillary Kramer, renound stock broker, financial contributor to forbes and several other news organizations, BA from Wellesley College, 5/22/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/hilarykramer/2012/05/22/building-the-runway-to-the-skies-of-tomorrow/]]]

The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trupo 6/21</span>**
Mary Trupo, <span style="color: #222222;"> International Trade Administration's Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, “Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show,” 6/21/12.</span>
PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.

Economic Collapse causes Global War
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[Walter Russel Mead Senior Fellowin U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2009, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
__And__, economic decline leads to war — unstable governments use external conflict as a distraction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span>
Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)

=Advantage 2: Terrorism= 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1: National Attacks</span>**
Aviation terrorism empirically sparked massive retaliations — and critical threats remain today
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brandt 11</span>
[Ben Brandt, Director at Lime, a political risk consultancy based in the United Arab Emirates, ex-threat analyst for a major U.S. airline and New Jersey Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, “Terrorist Threats to Commercial Aviation: A Contemporary Assessment,” Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, 11/30/11, http://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/terrorist-threats-to-commercial-aviation-a-contemporary-assessment]

<span class="Author-Date">Al Qaeda is growing stronger</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 12 [Seth G., April/June, 2012, “Think Again: Al Qaeda,” Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/23/think_again_al_qaeda]</span>
NextGen prevents and mitigates aviation attacks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JDPO, 4</span>
[Joint Planning and Development Office “Next Generation Air Transportation System: Integrated Plan,” Department of Transportation, 2004, http://www.jpdo.aero/pdf/NGATS_v1_1204r.pdf]

NextGen protects America from terrorist attacks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JDPO, 4</span>
[Joint Planning and Development Office “Next Generation Air Transportation System: Integrated Plan,” Department of Transportation, 2004, http://www.jpdo.aero/pdf/NGATS_v1_1204r.pdf]

NextGen will integrate with Europe’s aviation systems
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EUROPEAN COMMISSION 2011</span> [4/2, In Brussels“a Memorandum of Cooperation between the European Union and the United States of America in civil aviation research and development”
http://eur-lex.europa.eu/Notice.do?mode=dbl&lang=en&ihmlang=en&lng1=en,en&lng2=bg,cs,da,de,el,en,es,et,fi,fr,hu,it,lt,lv,mt,nl,pl,pt,ro,sk,sl,sv,&val=556632:cs&page=]

Aviation cooperation unites U.S., European, and Russian systems against airborne terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Loukianova</span> , Research Associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>
Anya Loukianova , Research Associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, graduate assistant at the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, 5-11, [“Cooperative Airspace Security in the Euro-Atlantic Region ,” CISSM Working Paper, www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/display.php?id=547]

Terrorist attacks cause panic and scapegoating through massive retaliation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins 2012</span> [Brian Michael, July “New Challenges to U.S. Counterterrorism Efforts” Testimony presented before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on July 11, 2012
http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/testimonies/2012/RAND_CT377.pdf]