[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=GPS @ BVSW (Lay)= 

==Observation 1 is the Status Quo== 

**====Currently GPS interference through techniques like GPS Jamming and GPS spoofing is on the rise and it~’s only going to get worse. Now is the key time to develop anti-jamming and anti-spoofing capabilities====**
**From the PNT Advisory Board, 2010**
National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) Advisory Board, Jamming the Global Positioning System A National Security Threat: Recent Events and Potential Cures November 4, 2010, [[http://www.pnt.gov/advisory/-http://www.pnt.gov/advisory/]]
The United States is now critically dependent on GPS. For example, cell phone
AND
jamming countermeasures tend to deter those who would deliberately interfere with the signals.

====And GPS vulnerability poses deep threats to national security but no action will be taken until disaster strikes==== 
**From Franceschi-Bicchierai 2012**
~~[Lorenzo, Wired, July 6; [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/07/drone-hijacking/all/-http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/07/drone-hijacking/all/]]~~]
The rogue takeover exploited a vulnerability in GPS to take control of the drone.
AND
an app that would make Android cellphones able to detect GPS jamming sources.

====Even Planned DoD upgrades would be insufficient to solve jamming until 2026 and will still not meet recommended standards made by the Defense science board==== 
**From the CBO in 2011**
Congressional Budget Office Study, "The Global Positioning System for Military Users: Current Modernization Plans and Alternatives," October 2011, Congress of the United States, [[www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf-http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf]]
DoD~’s planned improvements in the ability of GPS to operate in a jamming environment rely
AND
500, far short of the level of improvement recommended by the DSB.

===Terror=== 

====These vulnerabilities open us up to terrorism, the first advantage of strengthening our GPS systems.==== 
Domestic drones are on civilian channels which are unencrypted and can be turned into weapons
GCN 6/29 Government Computer News, June 29, 2012, "Domestic drones can be hijacked, turned into weapons, researchers show" http://s.tt/1gmqT
Domestic drones can be hijacked, turned into weapons, researchers show By Kathleen Hickey
AND
rely on civilian GPS, which is not encrypted and open to infiltration.
Specifically, Drones are key to our ability to keep terrorists under control.
McClatchy-Tribune 6/25 ("Drone attacks remain best tool to fight terrorists", [[http://www.bradenton.com/2012/06/25/4090990/drone-attacks-remain-best-tool.html-http://www.bradenton.com/2012/06/25/4090990/drone-attacks-remain-best-tool.html]], CMR)

The United States has been at war with a shadowy, elusive enemy for more
AND
is effectively destroyed, drones remain the best tool in the tool shed.

====Out of control, terrorism will escalate into extinction==== 
**Morgan 9** Dennis Morgan, Associate Professor, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea Volume 41, Issue 10
Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful
AND
, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.

===Warming=== 

====The second advantage to improving our GPS systems is slowing climate change.==== 

====GPS substantially reduces greenhouse gas emissions in farming==== 
**Branson ~’11**~~[Mark, Clifton Farm (Australia), "Using Conservation Agriculture and Precision Agriculture to Improve a Farming System," Rainfed Farming Systems, p. 898~~]
Accurate driving and the matching of machinery operational widths are essential to precision farming,
AND
for each tonne of increased grain production (Webb et al. 2004).

====This results in climate change, which is induced by greenhouse gas emissions. A new study overwhelms any doubt==== 
Johnson 2012—earth science professor
Scott K. "Yet another study confirms global warming is human-caused," ~~[[[http://arstechnica.com/science/2012/06/yet-another-study-confirms-global-warming-is-human-caused/-http://arstechnica.com/science/2012/06/yet-another-study-confirms-global-warming-is-human-caused/]]~~] June 18
One of the ways in which climate scientists evaluate the role of anthropogenic greenhouse emissions
AND
last IPCC report, this study has generated the strongest analysis to date.

====And climate change tipping points are coming soon – doing nothing risks extinction==== 
**Hamilton 10 – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU**
Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics in Australia, 2010, "Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change," pg. 1-2
One of the most striking features of the global warming debate has been how,
AND
will be gone and humans will enter a long struggle just to survive.

===Economy=== 

====The third advantage to strengthening our GPS systems is the economy==== 

====GPS enables dramatic improvements in all sectors of transportation==== 
**Habjan ~’09**
~~[Andreja and Costas Andriopoulous, Brunel Business School @ Brunel University (United Kingdom); European and Mediterranean Conference on Information Systems; July 13-14; p. 7~~]
According to the process flow in the upper table we can conclude that has implementation
AND
gathered through semi-structured interviews that are illustrated in the following paragraph.

====Improvements in transportation are key to the economy – They create jobs, and more investment would spur the economy, proven in the past.==== 
**Dulaney 11 Daryl Dulaney, President and CEO of Siemens Industry Inc, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, "Transportation Key to Growth" October 3rd, 2011 http://www.ajc.com/opinion/transportation-key-to-growth-1193691.html**
General upgrades to traffic solutions and public transport, as well as overall infrastructure updates
AND
Transportation is the lifeblood of the economy and Atlanta~’s direct line to growth.

====Global economic crisis causes war==== 
**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, "Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises," in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force..

==Plan== 

====With these problems in mind, we propose the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase investment in GPS augmentation systems including improved antennas, inertial navigation systems, assimilators, and Iridium signal augmentation systems in the United States.==== 

==Contention 2: The plan solves== 

**====The plan solves the highest rate of jamming and integrates both CBO and DoD recommendations for upgrades to the infrastructure====**
**CBO 11**
Congressional Budget Office Study, "The Global Positioning System for Military Users: Current Modernization Plans and Alternatives," October 2011, Congress of the United States, [[www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf-http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf]]
The third option would combine the improvements included in the two previous options. The
AND
cost realized between 2012 and 2021 (see Table 3-2).25

====The plan solves jamming better than current DoD plans to upgrade the system==== 
**CBO 11**
Congressional Budget Office Study, "The Global Positioning System for Military Users: Current Modernization Plans and Alternatives," October 2011, Congress of the United States, [[www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf-http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/10-28-GPS.pdf]]
Of the three options that CBO considered, this one would yield the greatest improvement
AND
yield improvements over today~’s Global Positioning System and even that planned by DoD.



=Negative= 
==Neg Strategies== 
===BVSW=== 
Rd 2 vs. Piper SW
1AC: Roundabouts
1NC: T, Oil, Case
2NR: T

Rd 3 vs. BVN CD
1AC: Gas Tax/Highways
1NC: T, Oil, Case
2NR: T

Rd 4 vs. BVW ??
1AC: Port Security
1NC: T, Fiscal Discipline, Case
2NC: Fiscal Discipline, Case
===ONW=== 
Rd.1 vs BVN
1AC: "Climate Adaptation"
1NC: Exxon-Rosneft, Fiscal Discipline, Urban Sprawl, Case
2NR: Exxon-Rosneft, Case

Rd. 3 vs ???
1AC: Port Dredging
1NC: Exxon-Rosneft, Russia-Europe LNG DA, Case
2NR: Inherency (lolz)
==Disads== 
===Exxon-Rosneft 1NC @ ONW=== 

====High oil prices are key to the Exxon-Rosneft deal~’s success====
**RT Novista**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> April 17, </span>**2012**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. [[http://rt.com/business/news/rosneft-exxon-deal-arctic-301/-http://rt.com/business/news/rosneft-exxon-deal-arctic-301/]] hs</span>
After the landmark deal, already dubbed by many "the deal of the century
AND
partner, Exxon, for the whole project or whether they will diversify".

====The deal is key to US – Russian relations.====
**Gonzalez,**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> 4/18/</span>**12 (Angel Gonzalez, writer for Wall Street Journal Market Watch, [[**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">http://www.marketwatch.com/story/exxon-rosneft-deal-could-open-vast-oil-reserves-2012-04-18-http://www.marketwatch.com/story/exxon-rosneft-deal-could-open-vast-oil-reserves-2012-04-18]]</span>**)**
Russian energy czar Igor Sechin said Wednesday that U.S.-Russia economic relations
AND
see them developed. If they~’re not developed, Russia receives nothing either."

====U.S.-Russia relations check nuclear war====
**COHEN 2001 **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7, http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625%26c=1%26s=cohen)</span>
In these and other ways, Russia has been plunging back into the nineteenth century
AND
, "If not now, when? If not us, who?"