[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Checks AC

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extend is about rights citizens currently have (Merriam Webster definition)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Definition of accused m</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">eans trial through [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Palos Verdes Peninsula (CA) - Daniel Tartakovsky|conviction]]:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The generic name </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">whichever occurs first.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Current system: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Congressional Research Service 2012 [Jennifer K. Elsea Legislative Attorney “Comparison of Rights in Military[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Palos Verdes Peninsula (CA) - Daniel Tartakovsky|Commission]] Trials and Trials in Federal __[[#|Criminal]]__ Court” The Congressional Research Service. May 9, 2012]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. law provides for the</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> trial of suspected terrorists</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, including those </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">procured by plea agreement. A few __[[#|commission]]__ rulings have been appealed. 50</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Checks AC-Advocacy]]Advocacy</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I advocate that non-citizens accused of terrorism be tried, and granted the rights afforded to defendants in Article III federal courts.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Checks AC-Framework]]Framework</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">V: J</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Political philosophy, must be practical.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Public reason” provides the only reasonable basis for justification.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">John Rawls [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The idea of public reason, as I understand it,' belongs to a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">India-finding a suitable idea of public reason is a concern that __[[#|faces]]__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Basic standards are necessary to ensure citizens accept the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 2 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I now turn to a discussion of what I have labeled the third, fourth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">be reasonable, political conceptions must justify only constitutions that satisfy this principle.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The rule of law is necessary to maintain the states role as the legitimate arbiter of the rules.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 3 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I now wish to consider rights of the person as these are protected by the</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the basic structure, but ones that are not by any means negligible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">S: Maintaining rule of law</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1) Prerequisite – can’t enforce ethics without rule of law</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2) Without rule of law, pluralism is denied – arbitrary imposition of values</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Jury trials offered in criminal courts protect the innocent from undue punishment. On the other hand alternatives, such as military tribunals are designed to make conviction easier, increasing the risk that innocents will be punished. </span>

Contention:

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.[[http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">A highly valued </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">punishment possible: death</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the evidentiary rules in article III courts protect defendants from abuse at the hands of the government. Alternatives that loosen standards of evidence are designed to disadvantage defendants based on what they are accused of doing, violating the principle that the accused are innocent until proven guilty. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Devon Chaffee 2011 [Advocacy Counsel for Human Rights First's Law and Security Program “ARTICLE: Military Commissions Revived: Persisting Problems of Perception” University of New Hampshire Law Review. Vol. 9. March, 2011.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">In the absence </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">until proven guilty</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The rigging of the game against defendants is even more pernicious in light of evidence that suggests nearly 90% of those detained on suspicion of terrorism are innocent. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Lieutenant Colonel David Frakt 2011 [Associate Professor of Law at the Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law, Barry University, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Judge Advocate Gernal’s Corps Reserve. “MOHAMMED JAWAD AND THE MILITARYCOMMISSIONS OF GUANTÁNAMO” DUKE LAW JOURNAL. Vol. 60.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">After </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">a year-long </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">innocence in court.¶ 212</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The rule of law requires procedures that are designed to ensure the innocent are spared wrongful prosecution. A just legal system must be designed to find the truth and protect the innocent.</span>




CONSTITUTION AFF

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, ought is defined as “moral obligation” because what is “desirable” can only be determined when couched in some ethical system.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, West’s Law explains that a person becomes accused: </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">West's Encyclopedia of American Law</span>, edition 2. Copyright <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2008</span> The Gale Group, Inc.

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Accused is] The generic name for the defendant in a criminal case. A person becomes accusedwithin the meaning of a guarantee of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Speedy+Trial|Speedy Trial]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> only</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> at the point at which either formal indictment </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">or information</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> has been returned against him or her, or when he or she becomes subject to actual restraints on liberty imposed by arrest</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, whichever occurs first.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the context of the resolution is situated during the trial process when the non-citizens in question have been formally charged with terrorism and detained. </span>

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer this because: </span>//

# //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is most consistent with legal context because it’s from a reputable law dictionary. The law provides the most objective and stable definitions because legal definitions are codified understandings of terms that society agrees upon. </span>//
# //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is also consistent with the topic literature. All articles involving academic discussions on the treatment of non-citizens accused of terrorism focus on the costs and benefits of extending trial due process rights to them. </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer my definition to generic dictionary or common usage arguments because it is specific to the topic’s context so it creates more focused debates backed by actual topic lit.</span>//
//Third, the aff doesn’t have to defend all due process rights. Instead, the aff must defend extending the due process rights citizens are currently granted to noncitizens, on balance. It would be unfair to force the aff to defend every single due process right while allowing the neg to win via proving the undesirability of just one due process right. Moreover, the resolution doesn’t say “all due process protections,” so textually it doesn’t make sense for the aff to have to defend all of them.// 
I value **morality** derived from the evaluative term “ought” in the resolution.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because negating creates a distinction between two categories of people, the burden of proof falls to the negative. The negative must provide a proactive reason why noncitizens ought to be treated differently than citizens. Absent this, you presume affirmative because there would be no reason to treat them differently, and thus noncitizens would be treated as citizens and granted the same rights. </span>

Because the resolution focuses on constitutional due process rights, the standard is **adhering to constitutional law.** This is the best criterion for 3 reasons:
1. Constitutional protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government. Removing these checks puts individuals in the criminal justice system at risk and violates their guaranteed protection from overreaching government power.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. When elected, lawmakers promise to adhere to constitutional law, making the obligation to abide by the constitution morally compelling. Fried writes,</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fried</span>, Charles. [Prof of Law, Harvard University.] Contract as Promise. Harvard University Press. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">1981</span>. AW.

**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">Promise transforms a choice that was once morally neutral into one that is morally compelled, permitting us to gain the cooperation of others to achieve our purposes. Promise implies more than a communication of intention; it implies a commitment to a future course of conduct</span>__**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 6pt;"> A mere promise commits a person to future action because promising is a "general convention". That is, since without a way of binding people to future conduct, all transactions would have to be present exchanges, people find it useful to accept the presumption that promises have force in general, and apply this conventional understanding to particular cases….. Fried posits that </span>**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">an individual is morally bound to keep a promise because he has intentionally invoked the</span>__**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 6pt;"> general </span>**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">convention of promising</span>__**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 6pt;"> -- a convention whose sole function is to give to the promise moral grounds to expect the promised performance**.** </span>**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">It is simply wrong</span>__**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 6pt;"> Fried asserts, </span>**__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 12pt;">to invoke that convention in order to secure a promise, and then to break the promise. One thereby betrays the trust and the respect for individual autonomy upon which the convention was founded.</span>__**
Thus, respecting promises is the basis for the respect of human worth. 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The law reconciles subjective moral codes within a society and literally determines what is what under morality. Boardman furthers,</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boardman, William S [Professor of Philosophy, Lawrence University]. “Coordination and the moral obligation to obey the law.” Ethics, vol. 97, no. 3, April 1987, pp. 546-557.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But this picture is gravely oversimplified: it accommodates only those ¶ instances where socially homogeneous citizens share their social standards ¶ of behavior. When we remind ourselves that</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">different social subgroups</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">frequently</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">follow different moral codes</span>-<span style="font-size: 6pt;">differing schemes of forbear- ¶ ance -we can see how it is misleading to think of crimes as mala per se ¶ independently of laws or other existing social institutions. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 6pt;">For while Raz ¶ is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">perfectly **<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">correct</span> in** asserting **<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that</span>**, even</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">independently of a legal system,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> one ought not</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">to</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">murder, rape,</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">enslave</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and so on, [however,] what counts for all </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> citizens as murdering, raping, and so forth is</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">often</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">specified</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">only</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">by the</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ common</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">legal system</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">We can examine this concretely by looking at some ¶ recent changes in the law of rape in some states of the United States. ¶ Morally, and independently of the legal system, one ought not to rape; ¶ but is a husband's forcing himself upon his unwilling but lawful wife an ¶ instance of rape? Apart from the new changes in the legal codes, many ¶ social subgroups would say not; nor is this merely a difference in the ¶ way such acts are labeled-for even though the norms of such groups ¶ might concede such behavior to be "wrong," they would not weigh it as ¶ gravely wrong as rape. But where</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a healthy legal system</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">has incorporated ¶ such a provision into its criminal code, a new standard of behavior is ¶ thereby</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">impose[s] upon the members of the social groups within its </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> jurisdiction [a standard of behavior.]</span>-<span style="font-size: 6pt;">other things being equal. (There are, of course, caveats ¶ needed here. Changing the criminal code of a legal system will not nec- ¶ essarily result in new standards which replace or supersede the social ¶ standards: the success of the enterprise, its efficacy, will depend upon ¶ how striking the changes are seen to be, and whether-by and large- ¶ the legal system has the respect of a majority of its citizens.) Normally, ¶ then,</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the sheer existence of a legal standard is relevant to answering </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> moral questions</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">even when one is not convinced of the moral propriety ¶ of the standard independently of its being a legal standard. One important ¶ reason why existing</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">legal standards</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">are relevant to morality is that they ¶</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">create expectations which</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">like those created by promises</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">are relied </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">upon ¶ and expected to be relied upon.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, respecting the law is a prerequisite to any other criterion because the law determines what counts as a harm to individuals; it literally defines the moral code. Moreover, the Constitution is literally the supreme law of the land so it must be respecting over any other law.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention I.</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The constitution requires the extension of due process rights to noncitizens.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. The constitution specifically does not limit due process rights to citizens because the framers of the constitution intended them to extend to all persons. Supreme Court precedent has reaffirmed this again and again. Cole explains:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cole</span>, David [Prof. of Law @ Georgetown Law Center]. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?.” //Thomas Jefferson Law Review.// Vol. 25. Georgetown Law: The Scholarly Commons. March <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>. [[http://scholarship.law.georgetown.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1302&context=facpub]]. AW.

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Constitution does distinguish in some respects between the rights of citizens and noncitizens: the right not to be discriminatorily denied the vote and the right to run for federal elective office are expressly restricted to citizens.12 All other rights, however, are written without such a limitation. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment due process </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and equal</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> protection[s] guarantees extend to all "persons." </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The rights attaching to criminal trials, including </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the right to a public trial, a trial by jury, the assistance of a lawyer, and the right to confront adverse witnesses, all apply to "the accused</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">." And both the First Amendment's protections of political and religious freedoms and the Fourth Amendment's protection of privacy and liberty apply to "the people." </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fact that the Framers chose to limit to citizens only the rights to vote and to run for federal office </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">isone</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> indicat[es]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ion </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">that they did not intend other constitutional rights to be so limited. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Accordingly, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the Supreme Court has squarely stated that neither the First Amendment nor the Fifth Amendment "acknowledges any distinction between citizens and resident aliens."</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">13 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">For more than a century, the Court has recognized that the Equal Protection Clause is "universal in [its] application, to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to differences of ... nationality."</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">14 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Court has repeatedly stated that "the Due Process Clause applies to all 'persons' within the United States, including aliens, whether their presence here is lawful, unlawful, temporary, or permanent."</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">15 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When noncitizens, no matter what their status, are tried for crimes, they are entitled to all of the rights that attach to the criminal process, without any distinction based on their nationality.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">16¶ There are strong normative reasons for the uniform extension of these fundamental rights. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As James Madison himself argued, those subject to the obligations of our legal system ought to be entitled to its protections</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">:¶ [I]t does not follow, because aliens are not parties to the Constitution, as citizens are parties to it, that whilst they actually conform to it, they have no right to its protection. Aliens are not more parties to the laws, than they are parties to the Constitution; yet it will not be disputed, that as they owe, on one hand, a temporary obedience, they are entitled, in return, to their protection and advantage. ¶ While Madison's view was not without its critics, his view prevailed in the long run. 18 On this view, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the Constitution </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">presumptively </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">extends not just to citizens, but to all who are subject to American legal obligations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and certainly to all persons within the United States. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madison's view is buttressed by the fact that when adopted, the rights enumerated in the Bill of Rights were viewed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> not as a set of optional contractual provisions enforceable because they were agreed upon by a group of states and ex- tending only to the contracting parties, but </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">as inalienable natural rights that found their provenance in God.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. In Boumediene v. Bush, the Supreme Court ruled that Guantanamo prisoners had the right to due process protections. Murphy and Radsan explain the majority’s reasoning, depicted through Justice Kennedy’s explanation:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Murphy</span>, Richard <span style="font-size: 10pt;">and Radsan</span>, Afsheen [Richard Murphy is the AT&T Professor of Law, Texas Tech University School of Law. Afsheen John Radsan is a Professor, William Mitchell College of Law. He was assistant general counsel at the Central Intelligence Agency from 2002-2004].<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “</span>DUE PROCESS AND TARGETED KILLING OF TERRORISTS<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.” //Cardozo Law Review//. Vol. 31. Issue 2. 2009. </span>[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1349357]]<span style="color: #2a2a2a;">. AW.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In essence, Justice Kennedy took Justice Harlan‘s Reid concurrence and made it the law. This functional approach opened up the possibility that constitutional habeas might extend to aliens detained as enemy combatants at Guantanamo. Justice Kennedy explained the factors to be considered in making this determination: (1) the citizenship and status of the detainee and the adequacy of the process through which that status determination was made; (2) the nature of the sites where apprehensionand then detention took place; and (3) the practical obstacles inherent in resolving the prisoner‘s entitlement to the writ. Applying these factors,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Justice Kennedy concluded that the Guantanamo detainees</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, unlike the German prisoners of Eisentrager, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">did have a constitutional right to seek habeas relief. Circumstances favoring the Guantanamo detainees included: (a) that they contested whether they were</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, in fact, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">enemy combatants and had not been provided an adequate means to prove this contention; (b) that Guantanamo, though technically not part of the United States, is subject to its total control in perpetuity; and (c) that</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, notwithstanding the expense and inconvenience of habeas proceedings, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the ―Government presents no credible arguments that the military mission at Guantanamo would be compromised if habeas corpus courts had jurisdiction</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to hear the detainees‘ claims. Yet, by common sense, the Boumediene Court strongly hinted that its result would have been different </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">―</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">if the detention facility were located in an active theater of war,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">‖</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> which would make the running of the writ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">―</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">impracticable or anomalous.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">‖</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer Supreme Court interpretation of the Constitution because:</span>
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. They are the body designed to interpret it in our government, so their word is literally law.</span>
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. You should trust the interpretation of law by a 9-person panel of the most highly qualified, hand picked, legislature-approved justices who have devoted their life to this issue than any other author. </span>

**Contention II.** Denying rights to noncitizens hinders counter-terror efforts.
A. Detentions without due process decrease the willingness of civilians to cooperate in fighting terrorism, which is key. Roth:

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth Roth, Executive Director of Human Rights Watch, May/June 2008, “After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention.” Foreign Affairs </span>[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63393/kenneth-roth/after-guantanamo]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Preventive </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detention also discourages citizens from cooperating with counterterrorist investigations, a crucial factor in uncovering terrorist plots. Counterterrorism experts report that information </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">gleaned </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">from </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">interrogating </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detainees is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">far </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">less important than information delivered by </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">members of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the general public who see something suspicious and report it. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">For example, information given by relatives of the perpetrators and the general public was key to the arrest of those responsible for the attempted bombings in London on July 21, 2005. Similarly, a British Muslim who found an acquaintance's behavior suspicious led the police to discover the plot to bomb several transatlantic flights using liquid explosives in August 2006. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because sympathy for the victims of </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">abusive </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counterterrorism policies tends to be greatest in the communities that give rise to terrorists, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">policies such as </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">preventive detention jeopardize this </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">vitally important </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">source of intelligence.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Current interrogation methods in prisons exempt from due process protections increase terrorist recruitment. Alexander:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Matthew Alexander. “I’m Still Tortured by What I Saw in Iraq” November 2008. </span>[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/11/28/AR2008112802242.html]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I learned in Iraq that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the No. 1 reason foreign fighters flocked there </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">to fight </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">were the abuses carried out at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Our policy of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">torture was directly </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and swiftly </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">recruiting fighters for al-Qaeda[.]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in Iraq. The large majority of suicide bombings in Iraq are still carried out by these foreigners. They are also involved in most of the attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq. It's no exaggeration to say that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">at least half of our losses and casualties in that country have come at the hands of foreigners who joined the fray because of our </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">program of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detainee abuse. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The number of U.S. soldiers who have died because of our torture policy will never be definitively known, but it is fair to say that it is close to the number of lives lost on Sept. 11, 2001. How anyone can say that torture keeps Americans safe is beyond me -- unless you don't count American soldiers as Americans.</span>





ARBITRARINESS AFF

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, ought is defined as “moral obligation” because what is “desirable” can only be determined when couched in some ethical system.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, West’s Law explains that a person becomes accused: </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">West's Encyclopedia of American Law</span>, edition 2. Copyright <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2008</span> The Gale Group, Inc.

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Accused is] The generic name for the defendant in a criminal case. A person becomes accusedwithin the meaning of a guarantee of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Speedy+Trial|Speedy Trial]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> only</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> at the point at which either formal indictment or information has been returned against him or her, or when he or she becomes subject to actual restraints on liberty imposed by arrest, whichever occurs first.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the context of the resolution is situated during the trial process when the non-citizens in question have been formally charged with terrorism and detained. </span>

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer this because: </span>//

# //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is most consistent with legal context because it’s from a reputable law dictionary. The law provides the most objective and stable definitions because legal definitions are codified understandings of terms that society agrees upon. </span>//
# //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is also consistent with the topic literature. All articles involving academic discussions on the treatment of non-citizens accused of terrorism focus on the costs and benefits of extending trial due process rights to them. </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer my definition to generic dictionary or common usage arguments because it is specific to the topic’s context so it creates more focused debates backed by actual topic lit.</span>//
Third, the aff doesn’t have to defend all due process rights. Instead, the aff must defend extending the due process rights citizens are currently granted to noncitizens, on balance. It would be unfair to force the aff to defend every single due process right while allowing the neg to win via proving the undesirability of just one due process right. Moreover, the resolution doesn’t say “all due process protections,” so textually it doesn’t make sense for the aff to have to defend all of them. 
Finally, make them check in CX before engaging in theory to allow me to clarify my position and avoid pointless theory debates.
I value **morality**.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because negating creates a distinction between two categories of people, the burden of proof falls to the negative. The negative must provide a proactive reason why noncitizens ought to be treated differently than citizens. Absent this, you presume affirmative because there would be no reason to treat them differently, and thus noncitizens would be treated as citizens and granted the same rights. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, we should always treat things the same way unless there’s a proven difference for 2 reasons: </span>

# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. We should assume fundamental equality in all persons to avoid the risk of arbitrary discrimination.</span>
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Epistemologically, we find differences when we discover them – we don’t know apples and oranges taste differently until we taste them both and compare them. Our standards for the derivation of knowledge mean that until we’ve found a concrete difference between noncitizens and citizens, we know that they are the same.</span>
Thus, the standard is **preventing arbitrary distinctions in treatment.** The aff burden is to prove that citizens and non-citizens are fundamentally the same and thus should be granted the same rights.This is the best criterion for 3 reasons:
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Arbitrariness definitionally conflicts with logic. In order to have a valid reason to accept a moral principle as true, we must ensure that that reason is logical. The definition of arbitrariness is “based on random choice or personal whim, rather than any reason or system.” Randomness cannot produce logically coherent moral principles because it lacks thought-out justification.</span>

# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Basing morality on subjective whims cannot produce universalizable principles by definition. Universalizability is key to coherent ethical theories because it treats all people equally. To say a moral rule applies to one person but not another is to treat that individual as special for no reason.</span>

# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Preventing arbitrary distinction in treatment comes prior to any other criterion because it is the only way to protect minorities from oppression by the majority. For example, under my standard we should treat all races equally because there is no non-arbitrary distinction between races. However, other ethical theories like utilitarianism might justify enslaving a minority race and treating them differently arbitrarily in order to maximize good consequences for the majority race. Only preventing arbitrariness in treatment precludes the possibility of oppression. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention I.</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Denying rights to noncitizens is arbitrary. </span>

====A. By definition, the only thing that separates citizens from non-citizens is nationality. However, borders are arbitrary. Caney:==== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Caney</span>, Simon. [Professor in Political Theory, Magdalen College, University of Oxford]. “Global Distributive Justice and the State.” //Political Studies.// Vol. 58.<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2008. </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">First, the thesis that the borders of some, or all, principles of distributive justice are defined by the borders of the state needs to show why state membership is morally relevant. I argued that two prominent attempts to vindicate this view fail. We can, however, go further than this. For it is hard to see how state membership could have the type of normative significance ascribed to it by the statist views under consideration. Which state someone belongs to is, in very many cases, a matter of luck.</span>**__[First,] It is a matter of fortune whether someone is born into Berkshire or Bihar and it [is]__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">seems</span> **__highly perverse to argue that such facts__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">should affect what people are entitled to. Why, one might ask, should being born into one state have such a tremendous impact on people’s prospects in life? It is hard to see why something so arbitrary –</span>**__as arbitrary as one’s class origin or social status or ethnic identity__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– </span>**__should__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">be allowed to</span>**__have__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">such</span>**__normative implications__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Caney, 2005a, pp. 111ff.; Pogge, 1989, p. 247; 1994, p. 198). Consider in this light the ideal of equality of opportunity. Its aim is to ensure that people’s opportunities should not be shaped by morally arbitrary factors such as one’s ethnicity or regional identity. But given this, why should similarly arbitrary factors such as the country into which one is born be allowed to shape people’s opportunities (Caney, 2001)? Lest this argument is misunderstood two further points should be made. First, note that it is not sufficient to reply to this argument that some versions of the statist vision (like Blake’s) ascribe some entitlements to persons qua human beings. Such a position is an improvement on the view that principles of distributive justice are entirely defined by people’s membership of a state but we still need an argument as to why state membership should have any such fundamental moral importance at all. Why should membership of a state be an entitlement generating property? Second, it is important to see that the moral arbitrariness argument, alone, does not refute the Statist Scope Thesis. It poses a forceful challenge to any statist view but I can see no way of showing that no argument could in principle meet this objection.21 Any conclusive analysis must consider all the possible arguments one might give for the normative significance of state borders for the scope of distributive justice. This article has considered only two attempts to meet this challenge but, as the first section attests, there are other attempts and so the moral arbitrariness argument is not conclusive. It should therefore be seen as a powerful challenge to any would-be defence of the Statist Scope Thesis rather than a refutation. That said, it seems to me implausible that any argument can meet this challenge. </span>**__The members of a state are,__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in all circumstances,</span> **__highly heterogeneous in terms of their abilities,__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">willingness to work,</span> **__neediness, [and] contribution to the social product__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and so on</span> **__and it would be remarkable if__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">they all (and</span> **__they alone) shared some property that was entitlement generating__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.22 A second, related, concern about the statist approach is its incompleteness and its inherent conservatism. The Statist Scope Thesis takes it as a given that there should be a system of states. It then argues that there are distributive principles that apply solely to those included within the state. This line of reasoning is troubling in a number of respects. First, before we accept this kind of argument</span>**__[Second] we need an argument as to why there should be states in the first place.__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Why not, for example, have a system of multi-level governance in which power is shared between global authorities, state-level authorities and sub-state institutions (Caney, 2005a, ch. 5; 2006b; Pogge, 2002, pp. 168–95)? Since such momentous normative implications (are said to) follow from statehood it is incumbent on the proponents of the Statist Scope Thesis to provide a defence of the state. Without this their argument is provisional and incomplete (which is not to say that it cannot be completed). Second, and relatedly, one cannot adequately determine whether there should be states or not without also taking into account the kinds of normative implication that Blake and Freeman attribute to them. It would be inappropriate to bracket out this implication, defend the state and then claim that these implications about the scope of justice follow. It is possible that if one knew that the creation of states had this anti-egalitarian implication one would decide partly on this basis that there should not be states. Third,</span>**__the statist__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">’s position is methodologically suspect for it appears to get matters back to front. It </span>**__starts with the world as it is and the boundaries that exist. [and] As such__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">it </span>**__places a great deal of normative weight on the accidents of history and military conquests.__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To paraphrase the opening lines of The Social Contract, we might say that a properly critical approach takes men and women as they are and laws and institutions as they might be (Rousseau, 1986 [1762], Book I, p. 49).</span>
B. The fact that citizens sacrifice more to the state than noncitizens is an arbitrary distinction for 3 reasons:
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Citizens sacrifice different amounts to the state. Some citizens pay higher taxes than others, some join the army while others don’t, and children do not contribute at all, but all citizens benefit from equal protection by the state, so sacrifice can’t differentiate citizens from noncitizens any more than it can differentiate citizens from each other.</span>
# <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Even if citizens have a unique reciprocal relationship with the state, this relationship is still arbitrary. Even though I may give more to the U.S. government than a person living in Darfur, the Darfurian never had the opportunity to sacrifice to the U.S. in the first place, reflecting the arbitrariness of the relationship between citizens and their states.</span>
# //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The sacrifice citizens make to the state does not differentiate them from noncitizens because the sacrifice is offset by the benefits and protection that the state offers them. While citizens give more to the state than noncitizens, they also receive more from the state. Noncitizens neither give nor receive from the state, so there is still no moral difference between noncitizens and citizens.</span>//
**Contention II.** Denying rights to noncitizens hinders counter-terror efforts.
A. Detentions without due process decrease the willingness of civilians to cooperate in fighting terrorism, which is key. Roth:

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth Roth, Executive Director of Human Rights Watch, May/June 2008, “After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention.” Foreign Affairs </span>[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63393/kenneth-roth/after-guantanamo]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Preventive </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detention also discourages citizens from cooperating with counterterrorist investigations, a crucial factor in uncovering terrorist plots. Counterterrorism experts report that information </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">gleaned </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">from </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">interrogating </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detainees is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">far </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">less important than information delivered by </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">members of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the general public who see something suspicious and report it. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">For example, information given by relatives of the perpetrators and the general public was key to the arrest of those responsible for the attempted bombings in London on July 21, 2005. Similarly, a British Muslim who found an acquaintance's behavior suspicious led the police to discover the plot to bomb several transatlantic flights using liquid explosives in August 2006. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because sympathy for the victims of </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">abusive </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counterterrorism policies tends to be greatest in the communities that give rise to terrorists, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">policies such as </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">preventive detention jeopardize this </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">vitally important </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">source of intelligence.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Current interrogation methods in prisons exempt from due process protections increase terrorist recruitment. Alexander:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Matthew Alexander. “I’m Still Tortured by What I Saw in Iraq” November 2008. </span>[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/11/28/AR2008112802242.html]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I learned in Iraq that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the No. 1 reason foreign fighters flocked there </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">to fight </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">were the abuses carried out at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Our policy of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">torture was directly </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and swiftly </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">recruiting fighters for al-Qaeda[.]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in Iraq. The large majority of suicide bombings in Iraq are still carried out by these foreigners. They are also involved in most of the attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq. It's no exaggeration to say that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">at least half of our losses and casualties in that country have come at the hands of foreigners who joined the fray because of our </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">program of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">detainee abuse. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The number of U.S. soldiers who have died because of our torture policy will never be definitively known, but it is fair to say that it is close to the number of lives lost on Sept. 11, 2001. How anyone can say that torture keeps Americans safe is beyond me -- unless you don't count American soldiers as Americans.</span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Targeted Killing DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Aff increases targeted killing</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Scarborough 2011 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Rowan Scarborough. Reporter, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institute “Al-Awlaki would have been difficult to try as a civilian; U.S. killed American-born terrorist.” The Washington Times. October 4, 2011. Pg. 8.]</span>

"Taking Anwar al-Awlaki..."Mark my words.


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leads Admin to use Targeted Killing</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steve Coll 2012</span> [Writer for the New Yorker, President of the New America Foundation. “KILL OR CAPTURE” AUGUST 2, 2012. The New Yorker. http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/comment/2012/08/kill-or-capture.html]

<span style="font-size: 12px;">"Klaidman’s reporting suggests... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">toward making an __[[#|arrest]]__?</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Targeted killing increases terrorism</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Organization strength</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">JENNA JORDAN 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [“When Heads Roll: Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation” Security [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Apple Valley (MN) - Miriam Kelberg|Studies]], 18:719–755, 2009 Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Recruitment</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Glenn Johnson 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [NAVAL [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Apple Valley (MN) - Miriam Kelberg|POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL]]. MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS. MORTUS DISCRIMINATUS: PROCEDURES IN TARGETED KILLING. by Glenn Johnson June 2007. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469936&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Intelligence</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Marc Thiessen 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Marc Thiessen “Dead Terrorists Tell no Tales? Foreign Policy, 2/8/10,[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/08/dead_terrorists_tell_no_tales?page=0,1]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intelligence is key.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Ely Karmon 2006. [“The Role of Intelligence in Counter-Terrorism.” [[http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/14/ely_karmon.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Impact of terrorism</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed</span> [staff writer, Al-Ahram Issue 705, September 1, 2004, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

"We have reached... winners and losers."

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=== === 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]