[[toc]]
__Contact Info:__
email jnuttall14@heritagehall.com if you want any cites.
Alternately email tford13@heritagehall.com
=Affirmative= 
==Harvard 1ac== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**When Jeremy and I were on an airplane, flying into Boston for the tournament…**</span></span>
**<Boston skyline narrative>**

**The urban and suburban correspond to the masculine-feminine dichotomy, respectively, and in both locations these two phenomena externally impose an identity on the subject. The journey between the two is ambiguous in terms of identity because it is neither masculine nor feminine, but is affected by both. Not only is the subject’s identity externally imposed on them but it is an unknown external imposition and is therefore abjected because the superego fears subsumption.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Brooks 98** </span>(Brooks, Karen, "Shit Creek: Suburbia, Abjection And Subjectivity In Australian 'Grunge' Fiction", Australian Literary Studies 18.4 (1998): 87, Academic Search Complete)

__The construction of an abject__ __body ...__ __implied by adjectives like 'suburban'.__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 1 is Abjection</span>
**So, what //is// abjection?**
**Each individual will face events in their life that threaten their identity or subjecthood. At these times when something disturbs his or her identity a person feels as though the threatening //__thing__// contaminates him or her//.// The Subject therefore attempts to create a border that keeps this disturbing //__thing__// away. The //__thing__// is thus cast away and expelled. This is abjection.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, pronounced “shuuhalm”, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__)

__As Kristeva herself points out ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> breaks down the differences that keep them apart</span>

**Abjection is the expulsion of this previously mentioned //__thing__// referenced by the subject. The abject is a creepy phenomenon that we separate from ourselves. This inner experience is an inherently indeterminable process, since it focuses on the liminal – or utterly ambiguous – phenomenon that produces affective connections to the subject. The occurrence that disturbs a subject’s identity provokes the experience of abjection.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__)

__One of the most potent ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and through this very rejection. </span>

**Corpses and blood represent abjects. Society determines that they must be cast away because they are tenebrous and therefore understood as gross. Each superego is relegated an abject because the superego chooses to abhor and reject a given object.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__)

__Abjection__ __is not just ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fragile contour through disgust. </span>

**Abjection is a life-negating process in which the self is forced to repress phenomena because they are quote-on-quote “dangerous”. This puts us into a constant state of defense. The world cannot //just __be__//. But, rather, must be cleansed of all abjects. Therefore, we engage in a constant attempt to actualize a fantasy in which there are no abjects. But abjects are inevitable. Attempting to escape this both creates violent lash outs against any perceived abject and destroys any hope of worthwhile existence for the individual enacting abjection.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__)-jn

__Abjection is the other side ...__ __separating between self and other.__

**Furthermore, this politics of lashing out at the abject has historically been the progenitor of all forms of xenophobia – the fear of the female body represented by patriarchy is a manifestation of the abjection towards the maternal. The mother is a locus of ambiguity because she is forever Oedipalized and therefore off-limits, but, at the same time, desired. The male subject hates this ambiguous experience and therefore enacts violence against the female body, subjecting it to regimes of domination. This relationship to alterity justifies unending violence. This violence against the abjected body is the worst form of violence.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__)-jn

__Modern pathologies such as racism and xenophobia, ...__ **__any affective experience.__**

**In fact, the road itself – the bridge between the two sides of the city – functions as an intermediary zone that bridges childhood and adulthood; while the street allows the child to feel free, it also provides the adult the feeling of freedom because driving invokes an explicitly joyous reaction, since it is the act of enjoying on one’s own. Further, it provokes a malaise concerning the dangers of the road. The road is a sphere where the subject achieves a new form of agency that abandons the age-concerned superego, and rather creates an entropic identity. This conjures an experience that rejects the superego. Society therefore abjects it.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Christensen and O’Brien 3** </span>(Pia and Margaret, Senior Researcher at the National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark and professor of psychosocial studies at the University of East Anglia, __Children in the City: Home, Neighborhood, and Community__, 2003)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">She describes how the ‘rules of the .... </span> __the demolishing of structures.”__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 2 is intimacy</span>
**Our interrogation makes it immediately clear that there is an integral connection between the resolution and abjection. The resolution provides a liminal space that disrupts an individual’s identity – these ambiguous spaces are abjected. That is, no one reads affirmatives surrounding the affective connections to identity that these forms of transportation infrastructure provide.**

**Hence, Jeremy and I advocate that United States Federal Government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in United States by investing in the liminal space of the highway that runs between the urban and the suburban.**

**We choose to interrogate the resolution and embrace the abject by confronting and embracing the liminal spaces intrinsic to the resolution. We advocate investment into transportation infrastructure because certain spaces within it contain abjection. We choose to combat the constant process of abjection by embracing them. We will defend that this is a good idea in the context of the aff.**

**Status quo politics are too technocratic and impersonal to allow engagement with the inner experience of abjection. Our psychoanalytic interrogation is a form of intimate re-volt against existence in which we come to terms with the ambiguous nature of alterity – only internal link to politics – it allows us to engage one another on a more personal level by uniting us along the lines of universal ambiguity. This allows us to reconstitute the violent psychological politics of abjection by engaging the intrinsic negativity of being. This is prerequisite to any political action because it forces contemplation.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sjöholm 5</span>** (Cecilia, Senior Lecturer at the University of Sotodern in Comparative Literature, __Kristeva and the Political__, p 90-93)-jn

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The term of </span>__revolt is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as ...</span> **__permanent element of thought.__**


**Embracing this relationship to alterity is our primary ethico-political responsibility because the politics of abjection impose restrictions on agency and public happiness and ensure genocide. Yo' "psychoanalysis bad" cards can't touch this – Kristeva ain't Zizek.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Birmingham 3</span>** (Peg, DuPaul University, “THE PLEASURE OF YOUR COMPANY: ARENDT, KRISTEVA, AND AN ETHICS OF PUBLIC HAPPINESS”, Research in Phenomenology, 33, Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, The Netherlands, Ebsco)-JN

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Indeed, </span>__Kristeva’s work can be read as ...__ **__in the company of others.__**


**In so doing, we confront the essential horror of existence – its ambiguity, its meaninglessness. Embracing abjection and psychoanalytically interrogating it allows us to fundamentally come to terms with our hated inner experiences.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kristeva 82</span>** (Julia, Professor at the University of Paris at Diderot, “The Powers of Horror, an Essay on Abjection”, translated by Leon S. Roudiez, Columbia University Press, New York, look it up and get you some free access, courtesy of post-Maoist ideology, p 207-210)-JN

__Throughout a night without ....—and "that cancels our existence"__ (Celine)


==2ac – disads== 
**They abject becoming a cadaver – this is bad because death is inevitable and coming to grips with this is prerequisite to encountering abjection**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kristeva 82</span>** (Julia, Professor at the University of Paris at Diderot, “The Powers of Horror, an Essay on Abjection”, translated by Leon S. Roudiez, Columbia University Press, New York, p 3-4)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The corpse (or cadaver: cadere, to fall) ... a debtor who sells you up, a friend who stabs you.*. . .</span>


==2ac – psychoanalysis bad== 
**Group the impact turns – they don’t assume Kristeva and misunderstand reality – prefer the specificity of our evidence. Kristevan psychoanalysis engages and retakes the political. Your authors are wrong because Kristeva isn't the psychoanalyst they criticise.**
**Keltner 9** (S.K., Psychoanalysis, Aesthetics, and Politics in the Work of Julia Kristeva, edited by Kelly Oliver, SUNY Press, 5-6)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The context of Kristeva’s reflection ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">problematic that she diagnoses.</span>__


==Genealogy 1ac== 

**__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">THE WAY WE LEARN history shapes how we think about the present and the future</span>__**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Consider what most Americans know about Rosa Parks</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, who died last October at age ninety-two.</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">In</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> the popular legend, Parks is portrayed as a tired old seamstress in Montgomery</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, Alabama,</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">who, on the spur of the moment</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> after a hard day at work, decided to resist the city's segregation law</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> by refusing to move to the back of the bus on December 1, 1955.</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">She is</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> typically revered as a selfless individual who, with one spontaneous act of courage, triggered the bus boycott and became</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, as she is often called, "</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">the mother of the civil rights movement</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">."</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Although a number of books</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">—including Taylor Branch's Parting the Waters, Stewart Burns's Daybreak of Freedom, and Parks's autobiography, My Story—</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">provide a complete chronicle, most of the obituaries for Parks lacked historical context and trivialized the efforts that it took to destroy Jim Crow</span>__**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">What's missing</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> from the popular legend is the reality that Parks was a veteran activist whose defiance of segregation laws was not an isolated incident but a lifelong crusade.Also downplayed is that Parks was part of an ongoing movement whose leaders had been waiting for the right moment to launch a campaign against bus segregation</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">. In hindsight, it may appear that</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">the boycott's success</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> was inevitable. In fact, its effectiveness</span> **__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">was the result of leaders'</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> decisions about tactics and strategies and their capacity to mobilize thousands of ordinary people in a complex, year-long grassroots challenge to the city's political and economic establishment</span>__**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">(Peter Dreier, Professor of Politics and Director of the Urban and Environmental Policy Program @ Occidental College, 2006 “Rosa Parks: Angry, Not Tired” Dissent vol.53 #1 pgs. 88-92)</span>

**Western modes of thinking reduce history to a series of transcendent events with a clear beginning and end. By reducing Parks to a sole revolutionary and overplaying her act, whiteness locates such an event that “solved” racism, normalizing itself. We must engage the convergence of events that created her success to fight white supremacy.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lloyd 7</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (Moya</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: #222222;">, </span>Professor of political theory at Loughborough University, <span style="color: #222222;">3/14, Radical Democratic Activism and the Politics of Resignification, Constellations Journal, Volume 14, Issue 1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">By claiming a seat at the front of the bus, in segregated Montgomery, Alabama, in December 1955 Parks is alleged by Butler to have appropriated a right for herself to ... a viable candidate upon whose treatment to build not only a campaign of direct action against the bus companies but, perhaps more pertinently, a legal challenge.</span>


**To speak of transportation infrastructure in the United States is already to speak of the abject Black body – it’s shot through with the white supremacist tendency to spatialize its racial hierarchy. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “white flight”, the condition for the freedom of transportation is the exclusion of the Black body. Status quo transportation serves to entrap the raced body in a cycle of uneducated poverty from which they have no hope of escaping.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brenman 7</span>** (Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and former senior policy advisor for civil rights for the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]]</span>)

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Three major kinds of infrastructure in the U</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__contribute to the separation of races: housing, education, and__ ... </span>__//actual shackles on slave ships to the economic shackles of high gasoline prices, predatory lending, foreclosure, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.//__


**This logic of abjection is not innocent - the social construction of the Black body in white society produces a form of self-hatred in which Blacks attempt to normalize their behavior according to false universal principles. This both denies the creation of an authentic subject for minorities and ensures social domination and structural inequality.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yancy 4</span>** [George, Ph.D. in Philosophy from Duquesne University, A Foucauldian (Genealogical) Reading of Whiteness: The Production of the Black Body/Self and the Racial Deformation of Pecola Breedlove in Tony Morrison’s The Bluest Eye, in What White Looks Like: African-American Philosophers on the Whiteness Question, ed. George Yancy, Psychology Press, p 85-89]-jn

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Under the spell of whiteness, blacks internalize a set of values and practices that create a form of self-ressentiment.</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">effect in predisposing light-skinned people against those with darker pigmentation.</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">15</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16pt;">Resolved: United States Federal Government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in United States.</span>**

**In the face of the politics of whiteness, which focus on mere events, my partner and I advocate a politics of a continual middle; genealogy is a continual process, which allows us to reorient ourselves in relation to politics. We will claim that transportation infrastructure can happen, and may be good, but only within the context of a vigorous and continual interrogation of whiteness.**

**We have an ethical obligation to problematize whiteness because it structures all social relations. This is not just a question of complacency but of the active production of values that denigrate the Black body. Whether a spectator or a belligerent, we are all responsible for the social reproduction of whiteness – to stand by in the face of white supremacy is synonymous with taking part in the vilification and evisceration of the Black body.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yancy 4</span>** (George, Ph.D. in Philosophy from Duquesne University, Fragments of a Social Ontology of Whiteness, in What White Looks Like, ed. George Yancy, p xxiii-xxv)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">**__As long as whiteness constitutes an ensemble of power relations that places whites in positions of advantage and__** ... **__signing a contract is not requisite for membership in this white supremacist spectacle.__** </span>**__//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is enough that you are a </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">white</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, silent witness.</span>//__**

**A genealogy of whiteness reveals that whiteness is not an historical inevitability. This allows us to reveal the actions of whiteness. In this way, it disrupts the violence of whiteness.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yancy 4</span>** [George, Ph.D. in Philosophy from Duquesne University, “A Foucauldian (Genealogical) Reading of Whiteness: The Production of the Black Body/Self and the Racial Deformation of Pecola Breedlove in Tony Morrison’s The Bluest Eye”, in __What White Looks Like: African-American Philosophers on the Whiteness Question__, ed. George Yancy, Psychology Press, p 85-86]-jn

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A genealogical examination of whiteness...</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">to critically evaluate and overcome.</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">7</span>

**White supremacy structures debate – the ballot is key to challenging the white privilege within the community. The role of the ballot is to break down the structures that support social dominance in the debate space.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reid-Brinkley 8</span>** (Shanara Rose, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications and former Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, The Harsh Realities Of “Acting Black”: How African-American Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf]]</span>)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Although the Louisville team provides a clear justification for their policy statement, i.e., their support for ... confrontational stance for the Project members.</span>


**Blackness is the zero point of identity – blackness is the locus of historical oppression and only a coalition built on that fact can solve.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sexton 10</span>** (Jared, associate professor of African American studies and film and media studies at UC Irvine, “People-of-Color-Blindness”, Social Text, Volume 28, Number 2, 103: 31-56)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__If the oppression of nonblack people of color__...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">than yet another revolution. 78</span>


**Philosophization is just a contingent rider upon anti-Blackness – there is no grammar for Black suffering and it therefore cannot come to grips with Blackness**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson 10</span>** (Frank B. Wilderson III, professor of Drama and African American studies at the UC Irvine, __Red, White & Black__, p 141)-jn

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">As sites of political struggle ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Human survival in all its diversity.</span>__

**Aff key to creating policies that don’t reproduce whiteness – white supremacy now, policy later.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rodríguez 10</span>** [Dylan, Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, “The Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position” Radical Teacher number 88 August 1, 2010]

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps, then, </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">there is no viable ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> pedagogical audacity.</span>__




=Negative= 
==Ks== 
===Death to the organism!=== 
====1nc==== 
**<The link debate goes here.>**


**This logic organizes the body without organs – or the desirous connections between entities, rationalizing it along models “correctly-planned” subjectivity, thereby stratifying it. The affirmative tries to exact the judgment of god on that which is outside their rationality. This shatters the intrinsic and beautiful evolution and interconnectedness of existence and thus replicates all forms of oppression. This lies at the root of all forms of normalizing violence because it defines those things that deviate by defining their very level of subjectivity.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** </span>(Gilles and Pierre-Felix, obstreperous hooligan and abecedarian, Capitalism and Schizophrenia: A Thousand Plateaus, p 159-160)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We come to the gradual realization that </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">the BwO is not ... </span>____conscious.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ... I too have had false sensations and perceptions and I have believed in them."18</span>


**This instates fascism on a material and immanent level – corrupting the body without organs and making it an organism – creating a fundamental desire for repression. This destroys the beauty of existence and thus agency and the joy of becoming.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** </span>(Gilles, took a line of flight out of a window and became a body without organs, and Pierre-Felix, incomprehensible revolutionary, A Thousand Plateaus, p 165-165)-jn

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The BwO is desire</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">; it is that </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">which one ... </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">cancerous doubles will triumph.</span>__**

**Our alternative is to embrace those points of zero-intensity that are the death-threats of the affirmative. The body without organs is the collection of interconnections that make up the life-world – the earth. We must embrace the becoming of the universe by embracing those moments of collapsed intensity in which the organizing principle of the ego is utterly obliterated, and we enter the realm of the body without organs and continue the life cycle. We must live life so intensely that death, or lack of order, is no longer an object, but only the intense affirmation of the desires that life is made up of. This is the only way to resist the stratification of the affirmative.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 72</span>** (Gilles, professor of philosophy at the University of Paris VII Vincennes, and Félix, psychoanalyst, “Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia”, p 329-338)-JN

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">**__The body without organs is the model of death____.__**...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">swallowed up – a question of regime.</span>**__



===Desiring Capitalism=== 
====1nc - generic==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**The affirmative cedes communication to predefined capitalist modes of intellectual and educational engagement and advocacy. Capitalism is no longer just an economic system – it’s a fluid micropolitical ethic that has invaded every vacuole of life.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Negri 90</span>** (Gilles, professor of philosophy at University of Paris VIII at Vincennes/St. Denis, and Antonio, professor of philosophy at the same place and terrorist, “Control and Becoming: Gilles Deleuze in conversation with Antonio Negri”, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpdeleuze3.htm]]</span>, edited for possibly gendered language)-jn</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Deleuze:</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;"> What I've been interested in are collective creations rather than rep­resentations. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; text-align: -webkit-auto;">... </span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;">The key thing may be to create vacuoles of noncommunication, circuit breakers, so we can elude control.</span>__

**Capitalist valorisation of economic gain begets microfascism on every level of existence – it eliminates all forms of positive human interaction in favor of profit. This causes multiple forms of oppression and is the epitome of ressentiment, which destroys value to life. Capitalism naturalizes this through flashy communication.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guattari 92</span>** (Felix, psychoanalyst at La Borde and political radical, Pour une refondation des pratiques socials, 1992, Le Monde Diplomatique, 1992, S.1., <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://palimpsestes.fr/ecologie/textes_ecolo/Pour_une_refondation_des_pratiques_sociales.pdf]]</span>, p 4-5)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Marxists based the ... </span>__a subjective music remains to be thereby composed____<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

**The capitalist ethic mutilates desire – forcing the subject to desire its own repression, turning humans into nothing but instruments to bolster profit.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guattari 73</span>** (Felix, psychoanalyst, __To Have Done with the Massacre of the Body__, Retherches, Three Billion Perverts, March, in Chaosmosis, the compilation of interviews and papers)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">No matter how much ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">all aspects of living.</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">
**In the face of the capitalist ethic of domination, reject the affirmative. The very desire for capitalism rests on a shallow link. There is always a now. We can only ever act in this moment. We choose do what we can, birthing a line of flight from the status quo. This is the only way to affirm life. This is an immanent process fraught with both failings and glorious successes.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 72</span>** (Gilles, magic, and Pierre-Félix, sorcerer, Anti-Oedipus, 374-7)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">If one keeps in mind the tautological statement made above, one can then understand that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">... </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__this rupture assumes at a given moment, in a given place.__</span>

**Desire manifests itself at the local level – the unconscious – and resonates into a group order, powering politics. Failure to investigate at the level of desire abandons any possibility of understanding how political formations come to be and ensures serial policy failure.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ballantyne 7</span>** (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University, "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 27-28)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__So__ __<span style="background-color: aqua;">these habits of thought</span>, once__ ... from an alternate view, to have an inaccurate aspect.</span></span>
====Links==== 
[specifics depend on aff]
**Rhetoric of economic collapse begets a politics of crisis in which capitalism is the only hope for survival. Their threats are simply constructions of capital attempting to perpetuate itself.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 97 </span>[Slavoj, “Multiculturalism, or, the cultural logic of multinational capitalism,” New Left Review # 224 p. 34-35)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">So, back to the recent Labour victory, one can s ... upon your doing X, Y effectively ensues</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**Psychoanalytic critique furthers capitalism – it can only ever normalize the subject, hierarchizing the socius in according to capitalist logic. This means it simply cannot form micropolitical resistance to capital.**
Felix <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guattari 96</span> (psychoanalyst at La Borde and political radical, Soft Subversions: Beyond the Psychoanalytical Unconscious, p 199-201)-jn

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The customary __psychoanalytical__ ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">profession of today does not do.</span>__

**The psychoanalytic/Marxist synthesis is not a model for change but a game that furthers the oedipal power structures that dominate us. Its representation of the unconscious causes the subject to desire its own oppression. This philosophy was the source of the worst forms of fascism and Nazism.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 72</span>** (Gilles and Felix; Anti-Oedipus) 27-29

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The real is not impossible</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__;__ ... </span>__wanted fascism, and it is this perversion of the desire of the masses that needs to be accounted for.__31


**The lack, objet a, and the misappropriation of desire are all products of capitalism**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holland 99</span>** (Eugene, Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature at the Ohio State University; Deleuze and Guatarri’s Anti-Oedipus and introduction to Schizoanalysis) Pg 52

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Once again, though, it is important ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">to the “wrong” global persons.</span>__

===Rodriguez=== 
====1nc==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The affirmative cedes politics to the social structures of American white supremacy. These institutions normalize the brutality of their existence under the guise of paranoia and spectacle. This makes the affirmative fundamentally unable to address the overarching issues of exceptionalism</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinot & Sexton 2003</span>__** [Steve & Jared, Steve is a lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs Jared is Associate Professor African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, Film & Media Studies School of Humanities at UC Irvine Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Comparative Ethnic Studies, “The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003 p.171-172]
__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The foundations of US white supremacy are far from stable...</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">pawned off on us as proper and legitimate. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">The structure of this epistemological starting point has made the violence of American imperialism routine. This has created a culture absolutely insensitive to the mass murder and able to justify genocide in the name of survivalism. The rhetorical dehumanization of the other enables ordinary people the ability to become complicit in violence against the innocent</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">BOGGS 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> [Carl, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, isbn: 0742527727, p __187-188___]-AC </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">One of the more tragic parts of the U.S. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">war ... </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">they too are usually shielded from psychological immediacy by the mechanism of technowar</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">__.__ </span>

**The affirmative’s framing of their impacts ultimately serves to banalize the society around them. Their emphasis on spectacles of violence enables them to accept the rules of current power structures as part of a ritualized acquiescence to white supremacy. This makes everyday forms of violence unrecognizable**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinot & Sexton 2003</span>__** [Steve & Jared, Steve is a lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs Jared is Associate Professor African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, Film & Media Studies School of Humanities at UC Irvine Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Comparative Ethnic Studies, “The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003 p.171-172]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Most theories of white supremacy seek to plumb the depths of its excessiveness, beyond the ordinary; they miss the fact that </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">racism is a mundane affair.</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">its truth lies in the rituals that sustain its circuitous contentless logic; it is, in fact, nothing but its very practices. </span>__


**Our alternative is the pedagogical position of the call for the end of the United States. Only this epistemological starting point can create an effective praxis that will betray the constant management of the effects of genocide in favor of a politics to abolish it.**
**__Rodríguez 10__** [Dylan, “The Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position” Radical Teacher number 88<span class="publication-date"> August 1, 2010 </span>
<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps, then, </span>__<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 11pt;">there is no viable or defensible ... </span>____<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 11pt;">embrace this form of pedagogical audacity</span>__<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This debate is a question of methodology and epistemic starting points. The role of the ballot is who best challenges the structures of American imperialism; Our epistemological strategy is critical to providing effective responses to exceptionalism</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Grosfoguel in 2005</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> [Ramon, associate professor in the department of ethnic studies at the university of California at Berkeley, __Critical Globalization Studies__, edited by Richard Appelbaum and William Robinson 288 ]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">So far, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">the history of the modern—</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">colonial capitalist patriarchal </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">world-system...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">subaltern to Eurocentric modernity.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The form of thinking we engender is critical – our alternative holds open the space for an other thinking that challenges the exceptional epistemologies that most concretely form the basis of genocidal politics</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mignolo 2000</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> [Walter, William H. Wannamaker Professor of Literature and Romance Studies at Duke UniversityLocal Histories/Global Designs, 0691001405]68-69</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The second opposition Khatibi attempts to undo ... time that it opens i new perspective for a geopolitical order of knowledge production.</span>





===Psychoanalysis=== 
====1nc==== 
**The affirmative’s call for transportation infrastructure is anything but neutral – transportation policy is shot through with ideological fantasies. The 1ac was a specific manifestation of a utopian fantasy of mastery. They seek to rationally map, understand, control, and traverse unpredictable space by aligning it to some form of rationally planned grid, ignoring the lack inherent in reality, or the fact that understanding and controlling space is a literal impossibility.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillier and Gunder 9</span>** (Jean, Associate Dean, discipline leader, and __Chair of Sustainability and Urban Planning at RMIT with a Ph.D in geography__ and a Postgraduate Diploma in Access Studies to Higher Education with Distinction from the University of London, __and__ Michael, __Senior planning lecturer in the School of Architecture and Planning at the University of Auckland__ and past president of the New Zealand Planning Institute with a BA in sociology and __Ph.D. in Planning__, “Planning in Ten Words or Less: A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning”, Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., ISBN: 0754674576, 27-31)-JN

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">There are important differences between desire, need and demand. As Fuery ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">stage as an urban issue needing a desirable solution</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Cochrane 2000, 540). </span>

**This utopian fantasy is obviously impossible to realize. Worse still, its continued existence relies upon the scapegoating and extermination of those components that do not fit into their vision of a harmonious society, because somebody had to cause the failure of this imagined world, so its success logically relies upon their elimination – a Final Solution. No one is safe from the aff’s politics of purity.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stavrakakis 99</span>** (Yannis, department of government at the University of Essex, PhD from the ‘Ideology and Discourse Analysis’ programme at the University of Essex, “Lacan and the Political”, p 99-105)-JN

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In order to answer these questions it is crucial to enumerate the conditions ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">analytic experience shows that it is never actually filled in 99 different ways (seminar of 21 November 1962).</span>


**The alternative is to remove ourselves from the affirmative’s politics to analyze the psychological investment that the affirmative has in the politics of the status quo, and its attendant structures. This isn’t a matter of accepting or denying the affirmative’s plan. Only by interrupting the fantasies of the 1AC can we clear the way for actual social change. Your role is to be the analyst. Instead of asking what the negative should do, you should limit your decision to what the affirmative should do differently.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bracher 94</span>** (Mark, associate professor of English and associate director of the Center for Literature and Psychoanalysis at Kent State University, “On the Psychological and Social Functions of Language: Lacan's Theory of the Four Discourses,” Lacanian Theory of Discourse Subject, Structure, and Society Edited by Mark Bracher et al, 123-128)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Discourse of the Analyst It is thus ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">which we are ignorant.</span>__


====<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">other stuff</span>==== 

**Their call to solidarity with others is a self-serving mode of armchair activism—their demand allows them to feel like authentic radicals while all the real action is left to others. In this interpassitivity, we learn to enjoy the other’s suffering, and thus replicate it.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Žižek 97</span>** (Slavoj, Institute for Social Sciences at the University of Ljubljana, likes to scratch his nose, The Plague of Fantasies, p 111-113)



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Interpassivity</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Against this background, one is tempted to supplement ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">attitude was </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">dismissed as a proto-Fascist nationalist.</span>__**



==Case== 
===Fear of Death=== 
**[tag changes depending on round] Don't fear death - it's inevitable, and ushers in a new form of life. Capitalism produces the fear of death to subjugate workers and make them complacent with capitalist exploitation. Capitalism must ensure this docile bare-life spreads as far as it can. Death is inevitable in the world capitalism affirms and the mutilation of desire derived from capitalism makes the masses desire death.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**72** </span>(Gilles and Felix, magical lawn gnome of the 7th dimension and unicorn, Anti-Oedipus, p 330-339)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">But it seems that things are becoming very obscure, for what is this ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">being swallowed up – a question of regime.</span>__

===Ecology stuff=== 

**Feeling bad about exploiting nature and attempting to reconcile with nature causes humans to hate themselves because we fail to stop catastrophes. We wonder why nature hurts us with catastrophe after catastrophe. This leads to nuclear destruction and the wrecking of the biosphere because we begin to desire mass suicide.**
Jean **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 94</span>** (L'Autre par lui-même à Université de Paris-X Nanterre, professor of media theory and sociology at EGS, “The Illusion of the End: Maleficent Ecology”, Stanford University Press, Dec 1, 1994, ISBN: 0804725012, p 81-84)-JN

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The 'balance' we hear </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">so much </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">of </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__in ecology__... </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">species to boundless experimentation.</span>__


===Nukes=== 
**Nuclear annihilation is a non-event. The explosive energy of the nuclear has been integrated into global power, which merely utilizes the threat of nuclear annihilation to control people. The fear of the nuclear negates our ability to live life – we refuse to live for our fear of the bomb, and become willing to do anything to avoid its use. Even the most peaceful anti-nuclear movements are neutralized by statal nuclear deterrence.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 95</span>** (Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation: The Precession of Simulacra”, pp. 34-37)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The apotheosis of simulation: the nuclear. However</span>

===Violence=== 
**Focus on subjective flashpoints of violence epistemologically veils the violence inherent to every day. This not only misidentifies the cause of violence, but also ensures the replication of catastrophes as we rush into act without thinking.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 8</span>** (Slavoj, Violence, p 1-4)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">If there is a unifying thesis that ... respect towards its victims.</span>