Aff cites: Email michaelmarcusdb8@gmail.com
Neg cites: Email ericmarcus24@gmail.com

[[toc]]
=Aff= 

==Wake 1AC== 

===Economy Advantage=== 

**Advantage 1 is the Economy:**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic collapse now – 3 reasons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">1.) Double dip </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Sivy 8/28** (Michael, Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition, [[http://business.time.com/author/michaelsivy/#ixzz25kGUoazu|http://business.time.com/author/michaelsivy/#ixzz25kGUoazu]], PC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to a host of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> growth and another economic contraction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2.) Jobs </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hing 7/28</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">**/**2012 [Regina, “Jobs growth, Fed take center stage next week,” [[http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-07-28/markets/32890947_1_jobs-report-jobs-growth-wilmington-trust-investment-advisors]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. stock investors are likely to …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> to be enough to make a dent</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">,” he said. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">3.) Consumer confidence is continuing to decline</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Xinhua 7/28</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">/2012 [“US consumer confidence slips amid slower job growth, higher food prices,” [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/723825.shtml]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The US consumer confidence in July ……</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">70 percent of the overall economic activity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">We solve the economy – 5 reasons</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">First, Megaregions ---- Suburbanization makes US economic growth unsustainable – the US needs a new spatial shift towards the development of megaregions </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">That brings me to a central issue …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> but consume, spurring further demand</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Status quo economic fixes fail and make collapse inevitable – only the development of new mega-regions can create growth, but infrastructure is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/5/11, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “How the Great Reset Has Already Changed America”, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/07/how-the-great-reset-has-already-changed-america/241200/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Gradually, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">our great complexes of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> that it has already passed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">High speed rail is the key – it’s a shovel-ready project that accelerates the development of mega-regions and results in massive job growth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”, http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure is key to</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> powering ……</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> it look like something of a bargain.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Second, The Housing Market ---- HSR development fosters new hubs for housing and jobs which catalyzes an economic recovery</span>**
<span class="medium-font">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Calthrope, ’12</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [Peter Calthrope, “Why I Won’t Give Up on High Speed Rail”, Planning. March 2012, Vol. 78 Issue 3, p50-50. 1p]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Much more than a train ride is …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> we cannot afford not to make.</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Third, Traffic Congestion ---- HSR is key to solve highway and airport congestion which hamstrings US business and encourages offshoring – the perception of the plan increases business confidence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McMahon, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[3/29/11, Jeff McMahon, Contributor @ Forbes, “High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says”, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Opposition to high-speed rail </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.....</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> economic growth</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and development</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fouth, Competitiveness ---- US is lagging in infrastructure development – high speed rail is key to bring back the US lead</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Messina 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [February 2012, Fred Messina is a Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure @ Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology and strategy consultant company, “Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel”, [[http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Airport-to-airport </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">high-speed rail</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> to our entire transportation system.</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic recovery and boosting competitiveness are key to prevent the collapse of U.S. power---that causes global great-power wars </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024|www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">economic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and fiscal </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">trends …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to make aggressive moves in their regions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Loss of Hegemony leads to Nuclear War</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American …. the economic prosperity it provides. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fifth, Stimulus --- High speed rail has a multiplier effect on the economy – only the plan solves short and long term growth </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Biden 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Co-chairman Rosemont Seneca Partners LLC and Adviser to HNTB Corporation, member of the bar in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He also was on Amtrak’s board of directors, serving as vice chairman from 2007–09. [Hunter Biden, summer 2010, “The Great Multiplier,” InTransit, Pg. 3-4]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The U.S. national high-speed rail program</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> keys to realizing that goal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Austerity has ruined economies before and is ruining ours now – public spending is necessary for economic growth </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">David</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;"> **Woolner ’11** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(is a Senior Fellow and Hyde Park Resident Historian for the Roosevelt Institute, Roosevelt Institute, “Repeating Our Mistakes: The ‘Roosevelt Recession’ and the Danger of Austerity,” [[http://www.rooseveltinstitute.org/new-roosevelt/repeating-our-mistakes-roosevelt-recession-and-danger-austerity]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In 1937, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">after five yearsof</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">in learning from the past.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure spending can solve the economy with a multiplier effect of 2.8 – significantly larger than any other type of fiscal spending</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Xue</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;"> **Han ’12** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">( Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, Feb 2012, [[http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Besides its improving effects on productive …… less cuts, on infrastructure projects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Jobs key to sustained growth and recovery</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hindery and Gerard 5/15/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(co-chairs of The Task Force on Jobs Creation. Hindery is also founder of Jobs First 2012 and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Gerard is international president of the United Steelworkers and a member of the executive council of the AFL-CIO[Leo Hindery, Jr. and Leo W. Gerard, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/leo-hindery-jr/job-creation_b_1517730.html]]] )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The big immediate opportunity</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">is ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">turn</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> over and really roar</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic decline makes war highly likely </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods ….. considered ancillary to those views. </span>



===Oil Dependence Advantage=== 

**Advantage 2 is Oil Dependence:**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**Oil dependence in transportation guarantees peak oil and global resource wars---only high-speed rail solves** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**Perl** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">11/19/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "How Green is High Speed Rail", CNN, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[@http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Any debate about the future of high-speed rail …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">consumption sooner, rather than later.</span>//

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**The plan resolves oil dependence quickly** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">USHSRA 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (US High Speed Rail Association, “ENERGY SECURITY”, [[http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A national high speed rail system …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> practical, economical, or sustainable way. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Oil dependence makes us vulnerable to oil shocks – only a move away via transportation solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ebinger 6/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">/12 – An energy policy advisor to over 50 governments on restructuring their state-owned energy sectors, privatization and the creation of regulatory regimes, former professor of electricity economics at Johns Hopkins, named a "Nuclear Energy Expert" by the Nuclear Energy Institute (Charles, Brookings, “Five Major Energy Problems the Next President Has to Face”, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/06/11-energy-climate-ebinger-avasarala]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first of these, …..as changes in consumer preference.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**U.S. dependence means shocks cause nuclear war** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Qasem 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Recognizing the strategic value of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of national interests </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">are high</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===Plan Text=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment for an express train infrastructure system.</span>**

===Solvency=== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency:**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**Federal government decision making is key to successful HSR** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Freemark, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [April 19th, 2010, Yonah Freemark, “Is the U.S. Ready for a Sustained High-Speed Rail Funding Source?”, http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, as has been evident recently, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">….. the top of the priority list</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Models prove there will be significant ridership</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cox 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– (John, California Watch, “High-speed rail panel cites improvements in ridership model”, http://californiawatch.org/dailyreport/high-speed-rail-panel-cites-improvements-ridership-model-12562)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Assuming bullet train tickets are priced ….. system is operating</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in 2035;</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Investor confidence – it is key to determine whether HSR gets off the ground or not</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GAO, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Government Accountability Office, June 2010, “High Speed Rail: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Industry stakeholders agreed that the …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">come from the public sources. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Megaregions span across state borders – means only the federal government has jurisdiction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ross and Woo 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Catherine L. Ross is Harry West Professor and director of the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology. Myungje Woo is a research scientist at the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology [Spring 2011, “Megaregions and Mobility,” The Bridge, Vol. 41, No. 1, ISSN 0737-6278, page 27-28, [[http://www.nae.edu/File.aspx?id=43182]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Globalization, the accumulation of production, …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> corridors critical to economic success.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Transportation bill thumps your disads</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alan </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fram and </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joan </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**Lowy 6/29/12**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">writers for Huffington Post, “House, Senate Pass Transportation Bill, Extend Current Student Loan Rates”, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/29/transportation-bill-student-loans_n_1638116.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congress emphatically approved legislation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Friday ….. full legislation reaches his desk.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And so does unemployment, Fast and Furious, and international turmoil </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kass 6/24</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> John is a writer for the Chicago Tribune. "This election, being Obama is bad, but being the non-Obama won't help Romney," 2012, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/columnists/ct-met-kass-0624-20120625,0,7364096.column</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">more </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">trouble is ahead for </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…..spend our way back to paradise.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">States have no experience </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">GAO ‘10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office: Report to Congressional Committees – “HIGH SPEED RAIL: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans” – June – http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10625.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The activities that helped states ….. high speed passenger rail Services</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">They also lack technology oversight</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">NCI ‘3 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(The National Corridors Initiative – “FORTY-SEVEN ORGANIZATIONS SIGN AGREEMENT TO PROMOTE FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN MODERN NATIONWIDE PASSENGER RAIL SYSTEM” http://www.nationalcorridors.org/papers/midwestpaper.shtml</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> final </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">statement</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> in the …..Joe Szabo of the United Transportation Union.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Georgetown 1AC</span>== 



===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economy Advantage</span>=== 



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1 is the Economy:</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic collapse now – 3 reasons</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1.) Double dip</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sivy 8/28</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition, [[http://business.time.com/author/michaelsivy/#ixzz25kGUoazu|http://business.time.com/author/michaelsivy/#ixzz25kGUoazu]], PC)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to a host of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> growth and another economic contraction.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2.) Jobs</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hing 7/28</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2012 [Regina, “Jobs growth, Fed take center stage next week,” [[http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-07-28/markets/32890947_1_jobs-report-jobs-growth-wilmington-trust-investment-advisors]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. stock investors are likely to …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">to be enough to make a dent</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">,” he said.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">3.) Consumer confidence is continuing to decline</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Xinhua 7/28</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">/2012 [“US consumer confidence slips amid slower job growth, higher food prices,” [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/723825.shtml]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US consumer confidence in July ……</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">70 percent of the overall economic activity</span>//.





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">We solve the economy – 4 reasons</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">First, Megaregions ---- Suburbanization makes US economic growth unsustainable – the US needs a new spatial shift towards the development of megaregions</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">That brings me to a central issue …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> but consume, spurring further demand</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Status quo economic fixes fail and make collapse inevitable – only the development of new mega-regions can create growth, but infrastructure is key</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/5/11, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “How the Great Reset Has Already Changed America”, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/07/how-the-great-reset-has-already-changed-america/241200/]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Gradually,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">our great complexes of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> that it has already passed.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">High speed rail is the key – it’s a shovel-ready project that accelerates the development of mega-regions and results in massive job growth</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”, http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]</span>



//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Infrastructure is key to</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">powering ……</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> it look like something of a bargain.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Second, The Housing Market ---- HSR development fosters new hubs for housing and jobs which catalyzes an economic recovery</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Calthrope, ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Peter Calthrope, “Why I Won’t Give Up on High Speed Rail”, Planning. March 2012, Vol. 78 Issue 3, p50-50. 1p]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Much more than a train ride is …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">we cannot afford not to make.</span>//



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Third, Traffic Congestion ---- HSR is key to solve highway and airport congestion which hamstrings US business and encourages offshoring – the perception of the plan increases business confidence</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">McMahon, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[3/29/11, Jeff McMahon, Contributor @ Forbes, “High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says”, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Opposition to high-speed rail</span> //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.....</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">economic growth</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and development</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fouth, Competitiveness ---- US is lagging in infrastructure development – high speed rail is key to bring back the US lead</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Messina 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [February 2012, Fred Messina is a Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure @ Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology and strategy consultant company, “Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel”, [[http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Airport-to-airport</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">high-speed rail</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">…..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">to our entire transportation system.</span>//



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic recovery and boosting competitiveness are key to prevent the collapse of U.S. power---that causes global great-power wars</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024|www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">economic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and fiscal</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">trends …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to make aggressive moves in their regions.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Loss of Hegemony leads to Nuclear War</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American …. the economic prosperity it provides.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fifth, Stimulus --- High speed rail has a multiplier effect on the economy – only the plan solves short and long term growth</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Biden 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Co-chairman Rosemont Seneca Partners LLC and Adviser to HNTB Corporation, member of the bar in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He also was on Amtrak’s board of directors, serving as vice chairman from 2007–09. [Hunter Biden, summer 2010, “The Great Multiplier,” InTransit, Pg. 3-4]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. national high-speed rail program</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> keys to realizing that goal.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Austerity has ruined economies before and is ruining ours now – public spending is necessary for economic growth</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">David</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Woolner ’11</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(is a Senior Fellow and Hyde Park Resident Historian for the Roosevelt Institute, Roosevelt Institute, “Repeating Our Mistakes: The ‘Roosevelt Recession’ and the Danger of Austerity,” [[http://www.rooseveltinstitute.org/new-roosevelt/repeating-our-mistakes-roosevelt-recession-and-danger-austerity]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In 1937,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">after five yearsof</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">in learning from the past.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure spending can solve the economy with a multiplier effect of 2.8 – significantly larger than any other type of fiscal spending</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Xue</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Han ’12</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">( Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, Feb 2012, [[http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Besides its improving effects on productive …… less cuts, on infrastructure projects.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Jobs key to sustained growth and recovery</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hindery and Gerard 5/15/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(co-chairs of The Task Force on Jobs Creation. Hindery is also founder of Jobs First 2012 and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Gerard is international president of the United Steelworkers and a member of the executive council of the AFL-CIO[Leo Hindery, Jr. and Leo W. Gerard, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/leo-hindery-jr/job-creation_b_1517730.html]]] )</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The big immediate opportunity</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, however,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">is ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">turn</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">over and really roar</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Economic decline makes war highly likely</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods ….. considered ancillary to those views.</span>







===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Oil Dependence Advantage</span>=== 



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 2 is Oil Dependence:</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Oil dependence in transportation guarantees peak oil and global resource wars---only high-speed rail solves</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Perl</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">11/19/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "How Green is High Speed Rail", CNN,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Any debate about the future of high-speed rail …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">consumption sooner, rather than later.</span>//



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The plan resolves oil dependence quickly</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">USHSRA 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (US High Speed Rail Association, “ENERGY SECURITY”, [[http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A national high speed rail system …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> practical, economical, or sustainable way.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Oil dependence makes us vulnerable to oil shocks – only a move away via transportation solves</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ebinger 6/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">/12 – An energy policy advisor to over 50 governments on restructuring their state-owned energy sectors, privatization and the creation of regulatory regimes, former professor of electricity economics at Johns Hopkins, named a "Nuclear Energy Expert" by the Nuclear Energy Institute (Charles, Brookings, “Five Major Energy Problems the Next President Has to Face”,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/06/11-energy-climate-ebinger-avasarala]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first of these, …..as changes in consumer preference.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">U.S. dependence means shocks cause nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Qasem 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Recognizing the strategic value of …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of national interests</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">are high</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Oil dependence causes conflict over the Straits of Hormuz to go nuclear**

**Glaser 11** (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja]], August 2011, PC)





<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Energy </span>dependence could draw the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..attack against their nuclear forces.</span>



**Extinction**

**Hirsch, 06**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Jorge Hirsch (San Diego Union Tribune) January 3, 2006 “America’s nuclear ticking bomb” http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If only conventional bombs are …. those targeting cities or armies.</span>







===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment for an express train infrastructure system.</span>**



===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Solvency</span>=== 



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency:</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Federal government decision making is key to successful HSR</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Freemark, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [April 19th, 2010, Yonah Freemark, “Is the U.S. Ready for a Sustained High-Speed Rail Funding Source?”, http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">If</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, as has been evident recently,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">….. the top of the priority list</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Models prove there will be significant ridership</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cox 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– (John, California Watch, “High-speed rail panel cites improvements in ridership model”, http://californiawatch.org/dailyreport/high-speed-rail-panel-cites-improvements-ridership-model-12562)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Assuming bullet train tickets are priced ….. system is operating</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in 2035;</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Investor confidence – it is key to determine whether HSR gets off the ground or not</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">GAO, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Government Accountability Office, June 2010, “High Speed Rail: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans”]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Industry stakeholders agreed that the …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">come from the public sources.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Megaregions span across state borders – means only the federal government has jurisdiction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ross and Woo 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Catherine L. Ross is Harry West Professor and director of the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology. Myungje Woo is a research scientist at the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology [Spring 2011, “Megaregions and Mobility,” The Bridge, Vol. 41, No. 1, ISSN 0737-6278, page 27-28, [[http://www.nae.edu/File.aspx?id=43182]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Globalization, the accumulation of production, …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> corridors critical to economic success.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation bill thumps your disads</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alan</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fram and </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joan</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lowy 6/29/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">,</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">writers for Huffington Post, “House, Senate Pass Transportation Bill, Extend Current Student Loan Rates”, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/29/transportation-bill-student-loans_n_1638116.html</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON —</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress emphatically approved legislation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Friday ….. full legislation reaches his desk.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And so does unemployment, Fast and Furious, and international turmoil</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kass 6/24</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> John is a writer for the Chicago Tribune. "This election, being Obama is bad, but being the non-Obama won't help Romney," 2012, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/columnists/ct-met-kass-0624-20120625,0,7364096.column</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">And</span> more trouble is ahead for …..spend our way back to paradise.



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">States have no experience</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">GAO ‘10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office: Report to Congressional Committees – “HIGH SPEED RAIL: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans” – June – http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10625.pdf</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The activities that helped states ….. high speed passenger rail Services</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They also lack technology oversight</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">NCI ‘3</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(The National Corridors Initiative – “FORTY-SEVEN ORGANIZATIONS SIGN AGREEMENT TO PROMOTE FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN MODERN NATIONWIDE PASSENGER RAIL SYSTEM” http://www.nationalcorridors.org/papers/midwestpaper.shtml</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> final</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">statement</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> in the …..Joe Szabo of the United Transportation Union.</span>


==Michigan 1AC== 

===Fuel Cell Leadership Advantage=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**The race for Fuel Cell Technology is happening now** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">James </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Billmaier 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (CEO and chairman of Asymetrix and Sun Microsystems Networking, “Jolt! The Impending Dominance of the Electric Car”, http://joltthebook.org/) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">internal combustion engine is …..the undisputed market leader.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**US Investment in a Fuel Cell Bus Program is necessary to win the race** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">FCHEA 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">International Competition – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">International programs vying …..other heavy</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">duty propulsion technologies</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the U.S. loses the fuel cell commercialization race it risks becoming dependent and getting shut out of global markets</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Jerram 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lisa Jerram is a senior research analyst contributing to Pike Research's Smart Transportation practice Could the United States Lose its Share of the Global Fuel Cell Market? January 28, 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.pikeresearch.com/blog/articles/could-the-united-states-lose-its-share-of-the-global-fuel-cell-market</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">In my last post, I opined …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> a permanent “first mover” advantage</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An expanded federal investment that builds on the experience of the existing program in transit bus infrastructure would create a transition to commercialization of fuel cell technology and assure U.S. industrial leadership</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">FCHEA 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Unit Price At or Under $1 million -….. of petroleum and emissions reductions achievable. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scenario 1 is Hegemony:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This race for fuel cell batteries will determine geopolitical power for the future</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Levine 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Steve LeVine is a contributing editor at Foreign Policy and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University's Security Studies Program. Foreign Policy November 2010 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/11/the_great_battery_race?hidecomments=yes]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Chinese government saw in …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> mercy of those who do</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The shift in geostrategic power will unleash a wave of global conflict scenarios</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 (“The Economy and National Security,” </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">National Review</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, February 8</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">th</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Today, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">economic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> and fiscal </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">trends pose …..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> new, dangerous era of multi-polarity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Loss of Hegemony leads to Nuclear War</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American ….. due to the economic prosperity it provides.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scenario 2 is Readiness:</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Energy needs are crippling U.S. warfighting capabilities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Department of the Navy 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Manufacturing Fuel Cell Manhattan Project</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Presented by the Benchmarking and Best Practices Center of Excellence</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">November 2011http://www1.eere.energy.gov/hydrogenandfuelcells/pdfs/manufacturing_fuel_cell_manhattan_project.pdf//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ability of the United States military ….. these increasing military energy requirements</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Successful civilian commercialization will lead to military use of fuel cells</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fein 04</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geoff S. Fein is the Defense Daily's lead reporter covering the Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and intelligence programs, acquisition, research and development, and science and technology. Military Fuel-Cell Programs Not Yet Ready for Prime Time </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2004/February/Pages/Military_Fuel3647.aspx]]</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While the commercial industry is taking ….. batteries to the front lines.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Future electrical power is key to readiness</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nicholas </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Sifer</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> et al 6-2-20</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">04</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. PMP project engineer, Marine Corps System Command, (Ashok S. Patil, Terry G. Dubois, Nicholas Sifer, Elizabeth Bostic, Kristopher Gardner, Michael Quah, Christopher Bolton), , http://64.233.179.104/scholar?hl=en&lr=&safe=off&q=cache:cIWWJBe6PCEJ:www.eecs.wsu.edu/~pedrow/classes/ee415/Fall_2005/Refereed%20Papers/paper2_cobalt.pdf</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Electrical power for the future ….. to tolerate fuels containing sulfur.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Readiness is key to deter North Korean aggression</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Walter T </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ham ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (General for the 8th army of the US, “General: High Readiness Key to Deter North Korean Threats”, August 10, 2012, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=117463]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 10, 2012 – </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">free people can accomplish together.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**North Korean Aggression causes Extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Peter </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hayes</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and Michael </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hamel</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Green’09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14 2009,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The consequences of failing to …..end of American nuclear hegemony.”</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">8</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scenario 3 is Economic Competiveness:</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Economic Leadership is on the brink of collapse </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael E. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Porter</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and Jan W. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rivkin</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ‘</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Porter is a Bishop William Lawrence University Proffessor based at Harvard Business School, Rivkin is a professor at Harvard Business School, “PROSPERITY AT RISK”, January 2012, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.hbs.edu/competitiveness/pdf/hbscompsurvey.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">On any given day, virtually every ….. the private and the public</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> sectors.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fuel cell technology is key to U.S. global economic leadership</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Minardi 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dean Minardi is the chief financial officer for Bing Energy Inc., a manufacturer of state-of-the-art components for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells Don’t Give Away Our Leadership in Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies [[http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Obama Administration’s recent decision …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">leadership in this important arena.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Economic decline makes war highly likely** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views. </span>

**These wars go nuclear**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">O’Donnell, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Could the current economic crisis affecting ….. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">However sometimes history repeats itself.</span>__

===Oil Advantage=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Peak oil is coming – only the perception of a switch away from oil can solve** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Meijer</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;"> **7/4**/12</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Editor in chief of The Automatic Earth [Raul Ilargi Meijer, “Unconventional Oil is NOT a Game Changer,” __Market Oracle__, July 04, 2012 - 04:50 AM , pg. http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article35453.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">in the ….. circumstances will generate a </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">price collapse</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fuel Cells are the critical step to oil independence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">National Environmental Trust ’03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (“reducing oil dependency to increase national security: re-engineering the automobile”,[[http://lobby.la.psu.edu/_107th/126_CAFE_Standards_2/Organizational_Statements/NET/NET_Reducing_Oil_Dependency.htm]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the long term, </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">no </span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…..</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">implementing a direct hydrogen infrastructure."31</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1 is SLOCs:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dependence causes US-Sino conflict over SLOC’s</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glaser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja]], August 2011, PC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Energy dependence might be most …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">over issues not directly related to oil. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">War with China goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cheong 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity scenario postulates </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Conflict on such a scale would …… would see the destruction of civilisation.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is Russia-Georgia Conflict:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dependence causes US-Russia war- NATO-Georgian alliance sparks conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glaser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, August 2011, PC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An alliance formed to protect …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in which this conflict occurred.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bandow 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Doug, Senior fellow at CATO, How NATO Expansion Makes America Less Safe, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/how-nato-expansion-makes-america-less-safe]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, 8/13/12, PC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Worse, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NATO expansion brings the …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a policy would be madness.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 3 is the Strait of Hormuz:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Oil dependence causes conflict over the Strait of Hormuz to go nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glaser 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja]], August 2011, PC)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Energy dependence could draw the U</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">….. attack against their nuclear forces.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hirsch, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Jorge Hirsch (San Diego Union Tribune) January 3, 2006 “America’s nuclear ticking bomb” [[http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If only conventional bombs are ….. those targeting cities or armies.</span>


===Plan Text=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in an expanded fuel cell bus program.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Solvency</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The federal government currently has a smaller scale transit bus demonstration program which has developed the experience and expertise for success. Expanding this program is key to solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fred </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Silver’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Vice president of CalSTART and has worked with the Federal Transit Agency for more than twelve years focusing on the commercialization of new bus technologies including Zero Emission Fuel Cell and Battery Buses, Hybrid Vehicles and Advanced Bus Rapid Transit Vehicles, "Zero Emission Bus Program", Febuary 2, 2011, [[http://www.hydrogennet.dk/fileadmin/user_upload/PDF-filer/Brint_og_braendselsceller_internationalt/Dansk-amerikansk_samarbejde/Fuel_Cell_Collaboration_in_the_U_S__aug_2011_vers..pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Recognizing the important role of ….. other heavy duty transportation applications</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan will lead to Fuel Cell Commercialization:</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A. Federal Action </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Center for Transportation and the Environment 09</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A Report on Worldwide Hydrogen Bus Demonstrations, 2002-2007</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.fuelcells.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/busreport.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Role of government in accelerating ….. than moving the technology forward.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**B. Transit is uniquely important** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Eudy et al ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Over the past several years, ….. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> broader public knowledge and acceptance</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">C. Testing </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Eudy et al ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As discussed earlier, in-service demonstrations ….. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the next steps toward commercialization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">D. Public awareness </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Eudy et al ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">These early </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">demonstrations are meeting ….. public interest in its area.</span>




=Neg= 
==DAs== 
===Elections DA=== 

====**1NC**==== 
**Obama will win among independent voters but it’s close– most recent polls**
**Kaiser 8/15** (Emily, associate digital producer for MPR News' The Daily Circuit, Who will win the independent vote in November?, 8/15/12, [[http://minnesota.publicradio.org/display/web/2012/08/15/daily-circuit-independent-voters]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A new ABC …</span> November, she said.

**People see transportation spending as throwing away tax dollars, the plan is largely unpopular with the public**
**Orski 2/5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Why Pleas to Increase Infrastructure Funding Fall on Deaf Ears by Ken Orski 02/05/2012 [[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears-]] BRW)</span>
__Investment in infrastructure … wisely and well__

**Independents will credit Obama**
**Resurgent Republic 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (according to a poll by Resurgent Republic, “VOTERS BELIEVE AMERICA IS WORSE OFF THAN WHEN OBAMA TOOK OFFICE” 11/8, [[http://www.resurgentrepublic.com/research/voters-believe-america-is-worse-off-than-when-obama-took-office]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resurgent Republic conducted … 39 to 34 percent.</span>



**Independents will swing the elections—growing electorate and last 2 elections prove**
**Gilespie 3/14** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, editor in chief of Reason.com co-author of //The Declaration of Independents: How Libertarian Politics Can Fix What's Wrong With America// “Independents Will Decide the 2012 Election” 3/14/12 reason.com/archives/2012/03/14/independents-will-decide-the-2012-electi)KY</span>
__A raft of …the independent vote.__

**Romney will label china a currency manipulator**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palmer, 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doug, Trade Journalist @ Reuters, 3/12, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/28/us-usa-romney-china-idUSBRE82Q0ZS20120328</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Romney would squeeze …answered: "He is."</span>

**China bashing collapses relations, causes escalatory war**
**Jingya 8/24** (Mei, China political analyst for Sina English, “China bashing good for winning votes, but bad for Sino-US relation,” 8/24/12, accessed 8/24/12, [[http://english.sina.com/china/2012/0824/499676.html]] [[http://english.sina.com/china/2012/0824/499676.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US presidential hopeful …time and situation.</span>

**US - China War causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Cheong**, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, **2k**</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)

THE high-intensity …<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;"> destruction of civilization.</span>

===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Obama has the influence to prevail in fiscal cliff negotiations now---political capital is key**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sprung, 9/21</span>** (Andrew Sprung is a political commentator & media consultant. He is the CEO of Sprung PR and hold a PhD from the University of Rochestor, “Ezra Klein's unconvincing theory that Obama misunderstands (or misrepresents) "change," http://xpostfactoid.blogspot.com/2012/09/ezra-kleins-unconvincing-theory-that.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In my view, Klein is …... women should make for themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">*****LINK*****</span>

**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hutchison</span>**, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">9/21</span>**/2012
(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)

__Despite warnings of the **dire ……**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">economic growth and punish working families.</span>

**Middle East goes nuclear**
James A. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russell,</span>** Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘9</span>** (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Strategic stability in the region ….. substantial risk for the entire world</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Free Trade Bad DA=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Shipping containers are key to world trade- attack would collapse it</span>**
**Keefer 8** (Wendy, served in the U.S. Department of Justice as chief of staff and senior counsel in the Office of Legal Policy, working on issues relating to counterterrorism, Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect The Homeland and The International Supply Chain, [[http://law.campbell.edu/lawreview/articles/30-1-139.pdf]], 4/21/8, PC, MM)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>rise of shipping containers<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, though </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of significant container security issues.</span>

**Free trade causes extinction, collapse now opens options for future generations and there are no benefits**
**Bhatasara 11** (Sandra, Lecturer & Member of the Faculty of Social Studies Research Working Committee University of Zimbabwe Research Associate (Women and Law in Southern Africa) Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Consultant (Centgold Discovery Mining Consultancy), From Globalization to Global Sustainability: Perspectives on Transitions, [[http://journals.sfu.ca/jgcee/index.php/jgcee/article/viewArticle/30/9]], Journal of Global Citizenship & Equity Education, Vol 1, No 1 published 2011, PC, MM)

__Supporters of globalization often associate ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a strong case for transitions.</span>

**Also causes hegemonic shooting wars**
Katherine **Barbieri ‘2**, Ph.D, Assistant Professor of Political Science at USC (The Liberal Illusion: Does Trade Promote Peace? p. 35)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A third group of theorists rejects …..wars, or even </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">hegemonic wars</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sayrs 1990).</span>



===Debt Ceiling DA=== 

====**1NC**==== 
**Debt Ceiling will get increased now Boehner will not block unless fiscal principles are seen as violated**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Metzler, 1/18</span>**/2013 (Rebekah, “Obama Scores Win With Debt Ceiling Vote” US News http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2013/01/18/president-obama-scores-win-with-debt-ceiling-vote)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">House Speaker John </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Boehner's decision ….. the 'sequester' in early March</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

*****LINK*****

**That kills the deal—Obama’s focusing capital on debt talks**
Chris **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cillizza</span>**, Aaron Blake, <span style="font-size: 120%;">12/11/**12**</span>, What Susan Rice can tell us about Obama’s second term, www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2012/12/11/what-susan-rice-can-tell-us-about-obamas-second-term/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama continues to mull ….. prominent as Secretary of State.</span>

**Negotiation failure causes debt ceiling failure and global economic collapse—Obama will take us over before capitulating to the GOP**
Ezra **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klein</span>**, WaPo, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/2</span>**/13, Calm down, liberals. The White House won., www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/02/calm-down-liberals-the-white-house-got-a-good-deal-on-the-fiscal-cliff/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All of which is leaving me ……revenue-generating tax reform with spending cuts.</span>


*****Cross-applied 1ac econ impact in every round*****


==CPs== 

===PPP CP=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**The United States federal government should provide [the plan] exclusively to areas in which private actors guarantee at least one-third of the funding upfront for a minimum of twenty years. In negotiating these partnerships, the United States federal government should open infrastructure plans to modification, including the possible transfer of project ownership to private actors. The federal government should make all necessary regulatory changes to encourage greater public-private partnerships [in the area of the plan], and provide necessary technical assistance for implementation.**

**This solves**
**Puentes, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute (Robert, “New Partnerships for Accelerating Infrastructure Investments,” 8/23, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/08/23-los-angeles-puentes]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So as Congress continues ….. federal agencies, and reduced bureaucracy.[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/08/23-los-angeles-puentes#note7|[7]]]</span>

**The net benefit is infrastructure accountability**
**Public investment is manipulated by project managers who cook the data to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns, and means better projects lose out**
**Flyvbjerg, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This situation may need some ….. common with major infrastructure projects.</span>

**Data cooking creates economic disasters – the worst projects are approved, and necessary infrastructure loses out – this turns the case**
**Flyvbjerg, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, the UK study shows …..</span>as //disasters waiting to happen//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The counterplan solves by doing __less than the plan__ – the only projects that will be built are those that can secure private sector capital. This increases accountability in infrastructure design and reduces overall costs**
**Flyvbjerg, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In order to achieve accountability …..unethical, and sometimes even unlawful</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===OMB CP=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Text: The Office of Management and Budget and its Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs will use their Scorecard-style Dashboard system and issue a Red and-or failing performance improvement Rating to the appropriate federal agency for failure to actualize providing**


**Without force of law, Performance Indicators cause change–** **bragging rights and quarterly updates prove.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Breul ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan D . Breul – IBM Center for the Business of Government – “Federal Government Reform: Lessons from Clinton’s Reinventing Government and Bush’s “Management Agenda” Initiatives. Public Administration Review 68 (6): 1009-1026. – obtained via EBSCOhost database)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Traffic light” scorecard . </span>The administration <span class="underline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to show him the scorecard ( Frank 2003 ).</span>__

**We cause voluntary implementation of the Aff:**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peckenpaugh ‘3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason Peckenpaugh – the “he told” in this card is internally quoting Clay Johnson, deputy director for management at the Office of Management and Budget. Peckenpaugh is a frequent contributor to Government Executive and affiliated with Stanford University Criminal Justice Center – Government Executive – http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/0503/052703p1.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>The management agenda has taken hold <span class="underline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">underestimated </span>motivation for these agencies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


**Cplan’s** **//initial// OMB action not viewed as the White House.**
__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tomkin ‘98</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shelley Lynne Tomkin is Associate Professor of Political Science at Trinity College, Washington, DC – </span>__Inside OMB: politics and process in the President's Budget Offic__e – p.27-28)

<span class="underline">As </span>head of <span style="font-size: 8pt;">BOB/</span>OMB<span class="underline">, the …..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"abandoned cultural commentary for awhile."37</span>

===Buses CP=== 

====**1NC**==== 


**Text: The United States Federal Government should create a strategy for disaster relief utilizing buses currently in cities**

**Katrina and Rita prove – busses are key to solvency**
**Litman 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters of Environmental Studies, Evergreen State College (Olympia, Washington), 1995. BA, with emphasis on urban planning, Evergreen State College (Olympia, Washington), 1983. Lessons From Katrina and Rita What Major Disasters Can Teach Transportation Planners Todd Litman Victoria Transport Policy Institute 13 April, 2006 http://www.vtpi.org/katrina.pdf</span>

__This paper identifies ways to …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provide physical and emotional support. </span>

**New Orleans has adequate transit.**
**Johnston and Nee 2006 –** Department of City and Regional Planning (Eliza and Brendan “A Methodology for Modeling Evacuation in New Orleans” May 2006, __http://blog.bn.ee/wp-content/uploads/2006/10/New_Orleans_Evacuation.pdf__ , maps and diagrams omitted
)//ALo//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mode/Route Assumptions </span>__Evacuation of New ….. vehicle-hours of bus operations.__//

//**The net benefit is stimulus:**//

//**Additional stimulus spending causes a bond market backlash that collapses the US economy**//
//**Samuelson, 11** - Washington Post columnist specializing in economic affairs (Robert, “Bye-bye, Keynes?,” Washington Post, 12/18, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/bye-bye-keynes/2011/12/16/gIQAS2oD3O_story.html]])//DH

The eclipse of Keynesian economics …..1930s offers no panacea today.

**Investor sell-off will collapse hegemony and risks great power wars**
**Khalilzad, ’11** – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The current recession is the result …..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rates). These are promising options. </span>


===Commissions CP=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Text: The United States Congress should establish an independent National Surface Transportation Commission empowered to submit to Congress recommendations for transportation infrastructure investment. Congress will allow 60 days to pass legislation overriding recommendations by a two-thirds majority. If Congress doesn’t vote within the specified period, those recommendations will become law. The Commission should recommend to Congress that the United States federal government should _______________.**
**It solves the aff and avoids politics – key to effective transportation policy**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation Policy Commission, 2007</span>** (Full name – National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission (“Final Report - Volume I: Recommendations,” National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, December 2007, http://ntl.bts.gov/lib/33000/33400/33441/final_report/vol_1_chapter_1.htm)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Role of an Independent Commission </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our ….. which they so heavily rely.</span>



==Kritiks== 

===Security=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Danger is manufactured through discourse that constitutes international relations**
**Campbell**, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle, **1998**
(David, has also taught at Keele University and Johns Hopkins University, //Writing Security//, University of Minnesota Press, pg 2-4)

__Danger is not an objective ….. said to be at risk.__

**The catastrophes of imperialism trump other impacts**
William **<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Eckhardt</span>**, Lentz Peace Research Laboratory of St. Louis, February <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">19**90**</span>, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 27, No. 1, jstor, p. 15-16

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wright looked at the relation between …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may depend upon our choice</span>

**This debate is a referendum on your role as a citizen—the 1AC demands you answer the hail of a global regime of American power —your refusal to participate in this regime rewrites politics—buying into affirmative rationales for the ballot perpetuates the colonization of your mind**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orr 2004</span>** (Jackie, Professor of Sociology at Syracuse University, “The Militarization of Inner Space” //Critical Sociology// 30.2)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“[E]very American is a soldier” now…..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for less terrorizing future spaces</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 10</span>

**Vote negative to reject the affirmative. Our lives are not more valuable than the lives of those suffering the horrors of imperialism.Prioritizing the alternative creates real politics.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Butler</span>**, professor of rhetoric at Berkeley, 20**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>** p. 2-4 (Judith, //Frames of War//)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The precarity of life imposes an …..</span><span class="underline">the finality of any of its effects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Security v.2=== 

====**1NC**==== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Discourse of danger – the aff’s construction of threats and dangers produces securitization. The 1AC rigs policy debate into how to best secure the self from the other.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Grondin 4</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David, Assistant Professor, Member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Ph.D., Political Science (International Relations and American Studies), Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2008. M.A., International Relations, University of Toronto, Toronto, 2001. B.A., American History, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2000. “Rethinking the political from a Poststructualist Stance” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ieim.uqam.ca/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> realism offer …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> state’s very conditions of existence are generated18. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Karsten </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friis 2k,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2k</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The problem with societal securitization ….. where truth is never questioned. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Vote neg to engage in a critical re-evaluation of securitization** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Graeme, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert, editor, widespread author on security, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This goal is pursued in ……not to understand them, and why?</span>




==Topicality== 

===T-Vehicles=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**A. Interpretation – Infrastructure is fixed, permanent equipment**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– U.S. General Accounting Office (“Best Practices: Elements Critical to Successfully Reducing Unneeded RDT&E Infrastructure: Report to Congressional Requesters,” GAO Website, Jan. 1998, http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/156058.pdf)//RD//</span>
//DoD<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> generally </span>defines infrastructure as <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> processes and procedures, and software tools.</span>//



//**B. Violation – the affirmative increases investment in vehicles – they’re distinct**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFST 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)</span>//RD
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transportation or transport is the ….., air traffic control, and etc.</span>

===T-Underlying Structures=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**A. Interpretation - Transportation infrastructure must be the underlying structures like building a road not accessories to a road like new road signs.**
**Trimbath, PhD in Economics, 11**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Susanne, US Chamber.com [website of the US Chamber of Commerce], former Senior Research Economist in the Capital Market Studies at the Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce, PhD in economics from NYU, 2011, “Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way,” [[@http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf]], alp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The strategy applied by the US …..</span>__Railways • Waterways (Ports) • Intermodal Links__


===T-Military=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**A. Interpretation – Infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__ – it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6** – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM
One way to define infrastructure …..<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

===T-Pipelines=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**A. Interpretation – transportation infrastructure is roadways, railways, harbors, airports, railroads, and highways – pipeline are explicitly excluded**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">United States Chamber of Commerce, 10</span>** (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)//dm//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Step 1 – Definition: </span>Transportation Infrastructure<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ….. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">aviation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, freight rail, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">marine</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and intermodal.</span>//

//**2. Predictability - Pipelines only contrast with transportation infrastructure**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peters, 07</span>** – Secretary of Transportation (Mary, Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm)//dm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because </span>transportation system users do <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">….. telecommunications, electricity, </span>pipelines<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and railroads. </span>



===T-Its=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__its__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ….. shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
**Warner, 11** – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect<span style="color: #444444;"> to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, </span>[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- </span>**__The term ‘transportation …..__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>




===Inherency - Port Security=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Their aff has already happened - the SMART Port Security Act was just passed to increase protection measures**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller 12</span> (Candice Miller, U.S. Representative for the State of Michigan, 6/28/12, “House Passes SMART Port Security Act,” [[http://candicemiller.house.gov/press-release/house-passes-smart-port-security-act]]).

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Candice Miller (MI-10), …..components, industry and international partners.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


==Strategies== 

===Wake Forest=== 

====Round 1: Neg vs. Westminster SF==== 
Aff = HSR

1nc: Obama Good Elections (China Bashing), PPP CP, Security K, Case w/ heg bad offense (disease)
2nc: PPP CP, case w/ offenRoundse
1nr: Elections
2nr: PPP CP

====Round 4: Neg vs. Reservoir SA==== 
Aff = ITS

1nc: Obama Good Elections (China bashing), PPP CP, T-vehicles, Case w/ heg bad offense (prolif)
2nc: T-vehicles, Case w/ heg bad offense (prolif/disease)
1nr: Elections
2nr: Elections, Case w/ heg bad

====Round 5: Neg vs. Niles West BP==== 
Aff = Port Security

1nc: Obama good elections (China bashing), PPP CP, Inherency, T-Underlying Structures, Case
2nc: Inherency, T-Underlying Structures, Case, Presumption argument
1nr: Elections
2nr: Presumption argument, T-Underlying Structures


===Georgetown=== 

====Round 2: Neg vs. New Trier WW==== 
Aff = TRANSCOM Contracts

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, OMB CP, Security K v.2, T-Military/its, Case
2nc: T-Military, OMB, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: OMB, Fiscal Cliff


====Round 3: Neg vs. University AU==== 
Aff = Evacuation Transportation Infrastructure

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, OMB CP, T-Vehicles, Buses CP, Case w/ util
2nc: OMB, Buses, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff, Util
2nr: OMB, Fiscal Cliff, Util


====Round 6: Neg vs. Centennial PP==== 
Aff = Climate Adaption

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Maintenance, Security K v.2, OMB CP, Case
2nc: OMB, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: Fiscal Cliff, Case


===Michigan=== 

====Round 1: Neg vs. Pace LS==== 
Aff = Title XI

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Direct Investment, OMB CP, Case w/ Free Trade Bad Offense
2nc: OMB, Case w/ Free Trade Bad
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: Case w/ Free Trade Bad

====Round 4: Neg vs. Harker MS==== 
Aff = Title XI

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Direct Investment, OMB CP, Case w/ Nuclear Primacy Bad Offense
2nc: OMB, Case w/ Nuclear Primacy Bad
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: OMB, Fiscal Cliff

====Round 6: Neg vs. Niles West AA==== 
Aff = Port Security

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Underlying Structures, OMB CP, Free Trade Bad DA, Case
2nc: T-Underlying Structures, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: T-Underlying Structures

====Triples: Neg vs. Westminster BP==== 
Aff = CCS

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Pipelines, OMB CP, Obama Good Elections (China Bashing), Case
2nc: T-Pipelines, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: T-Pipelines

===Glenbrooks=== 

====Round 2: Neg vs. Lane Tech AW==== 
Aff = NIB

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Direct Investment, States CP, Security K v.2, Case
2nc: Security, Case
1nr: Fiscal Cliff
2nr: Security

====Round 4: Neg vs. Highland Park WW==== 
Aff = Camus

1nc: Framework, T-Transportation Infrastructure, Cap K, Antipolitics
2nc: Framework
1nr: Cap
2nr: Framework

====Round 6: Neg vs. Highland Park ST==== 
Aff = Critical Bikes

1nc: Fiscal Cliff DA, Framework, T-Vehicles, OMB CP, States CP, Case
2nc: Framework, States
1nr: Fiscal Cliff, Case
2nr: Framework


===Lexington=== 

====Round 1: Neg vs. Weston CL==== 
Aff = NextGen

1nc: Commissions CP, Debt Ceiling DA, Security K v.2, Case
2nc: Commissions, Case w/ Prolif Bad Turns
1nr: Debt Ceiling, Case
2nr: Debt Ceiling, Case w/ Prolif Bad

====Round 3: Neg vs. Bronx TM==== 
Aff = Climate Adaptation

1nc: Commissions CP, Debt Ceiling DA, Security K v.2, Case w/ Free Trade Bad Turns
2nc: Security, Case
1nr: Free Trade Bad
2nr: Free Trade Bad, Case

====Round 5: Neg vs. College Prep FP==== 
Aff = Port Dredging

1nc: T-Investment, Debt Ceiling DA, Cancel Panama Canal Expansion CP, Security K v.2, Case w/ Free Trade Bad Turns
2nc: Can Pan-Ex, Case
1nr: Debt Ceiling
2nr: Can Pan-Ex, Debt Ceiling, Case