Andrew Swann debated with Hannah Ku (Novice at John's Creek), (Novice at Westminster), (JV at Carrollton), (1st year State)(1st year Woodward) and St. Mark's Freshman Round-Up. Swann debated with Katie Marshall (Varsity at Griffin), (Varsity at Alpharetta), (Varsity at John's Creek), (Varsity at Barkley Forum), (Varsity at Harvard), (Varsity at State), (Varsity at NFL Districts).
Ku debated with Swann at the above-listed tourneys, (Novice maverick at Hooch), and with Alyssa Waters (Novice at Griffin), (Novice at John's Creek 2), (JV at Alpharetta), (JV at Harvard). 


@John's Creek
Aff - Novice Packet Next Gen
Neg - T, Spending, Russian Oil, Politics - Romney China currency manipulator

@ Westminster
Aff - Novice Packet Next Gen
Neg - T, Spending, Russian Oil, Politics - Romney China currency manipulator

@1st year state
(Round 2 and 4) Aff - National Parks (same as varsity)
(Round 5) Aff - Drones, Domestic terrorism, crime, agriculture.

DRONES AFF
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">UAVS are blocked now</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Koebler, September 2012, http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2012/09/26/us-government-watchdog-drones-not-ready-for-prime-time FAA hasn’t acted quickly enough, only provisional permits now.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, The FAA continues to miss deadlines for approval of UAVs:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Martin, Dec 11, 2012 USN&WR, http://www.chron.com/news/nation-world/article/Drone-makers-push-Congress-to-open-skies-to-4064133.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">FAA Modernization and Reform Act, signed into law on Feb. 14 of this year. Sites have not been approved.We elaborate on each advantage of domestic drones as follows:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">We have several modular advantages we will read. Here is what we broke at 1st year state.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Homeland security.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">International fight against terrorism is good, but domestic threats increasing </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Homeland Security Newswire, Sept 2012 http://www.homelandsecuritynewswire.com/dr20120921-critics-u-s-not-doing-enough-to-combat-domestic-terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Drones effective internationally, need to fight domestic terrorism.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Lack of deterrence in the U.S. leads to domestic terrorism with mass casualty</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Homeland Security Newswire, Sept 2012 http://www.homelandsecuritynewswire.com/dr20120921-critics-u-s-not-doing-enough-to-combat-domestic-terrorism domestic extremists in this country will carry out mass-casualty attack because they perceive that no one is being vigilant about the threat from within. UAVs can prevent domestic terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Jones, Jan 30 2013 http://www.infowars.com/darpa-shows-off-1-8-gigapixel-surveillance-drone-can-spot-a-terrorist-from-20000-feet/ Drone, Can Spot A Terrorist from 20,000 Feet.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Crime Fighting</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Crime victimizes millions and is increasing Rudolf, Oct 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">John, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/17/violent-crime-bureau-justice-statistics_n_1974123.html Violent crime rates across the U.S. jumped by about 18 percent . . . 6 million people were victims of a violent crime in 2011,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AND, Crime costs the economy $1.7 Trillion a year Davidson News, 2013 downloaded http://www2.davidson.edu/news/news_archives/archives99/9910_anderson.html#back</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">A comprehensive study of the cost of crime pegs the total cost of crime at $1.7 trillion a year, almost twice the previous estimated amount. . . .Impact of staggering economy is World War III:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">O'Donnell ’09 [Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner writer and Marine Corps Reserve squad leader,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">"Will this recession lead to World War III?," 2-26-09, http://www.examiner.com/x- 3108-Baltimore-Republican- Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this- recession-lead-to-World-War- III]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Hopefully the economy gets better before it gets worse and the terrifying possibility of World War III is averted.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Rape Lin, 2010 Linda, http://www.womensweb.ca/violence/rape/index.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Rape has been called soul murder</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Law enforcement wants to use drones, but waiting for FAA to allow drones in US Airspace</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">AmericanFreePress.com, Dec 2012 http://americanfreepress.net/?p=7596</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">police officers in recent weeks have intensified their demands for surveillance drones. . .by the end of the decade as many as 30,000 UAVs are expected to be soaring through the sky.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Drones have multiple ways to fight crime Bommarito,2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Sal, http://www.policymic.com/articles/10894/domestic-drones-in-america-5-reasons-the-fbi-should-use-dronesYes, drones are used offensively in military situations, proposed to be for patrolling our streets, borders, high crime areas and to assist in the apprehension of criminals. AND, Surveillance deters crimes Sewell 2012 http://articles.latimes.com/2012/aug/25/local/la-me-0825-lancaster-aircraft-20120825 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">it is a deterrent if a criminal believes there is a strong likelihood of apprehension.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Agriculture (have to add these cites) 1AC 2/__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Plan: USfg should substantially increase its investment in domestic UAS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">SOLVENCY.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">The approval of infrastructure would result in significant use of domestic Unmanned Aircraft Systems</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Thompson, Sept 2012 Drones in Domestic Surveillance Operations: Fourth Amendment Implications and Legislative Responses http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R42701.pdf One reason for this expansion has been a push by Congress for a faster</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Drones solve for the advantages: Thompson, 2012 Council on Foreign Relations,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Richard, attorney, September, http://www.cfr.org/counterterrorism/crs-drones-domestic-surveillance- operations-fourth-amendment-implications-legislative-responses/p28960 UAVS being considered for domestic uses.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">leads to international modeling Spillover – U.S. can lead the world toward domestic drones Johnson, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Asst Prof Georgia Tech, http://www.documentcloud.org/documents/560574-10-19-12-mr2015-res.html#document/p14</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">International use would solve for human rights violations Farber, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">Amy, http://www.policymic.com/articles/3851/should-ngos-use-drones-to-monitor-human-rights-violations a surveillance drone could be flying over protests and clashes in Syria."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 70%;">The argument for human rights groups to purchase surveillance drones to monitor violence against Syrian and other global citizens is strong.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">@Woodward </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Round 4 Aff - National Parks. See Varsity team. </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;"> Round 1 - Neg - </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Round 2 - Bye</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Round 3 - Neg - Cplan, Cap K, S</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Round 4 - National Parks (Aff)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Round 5 - Neg v. Neg Gen - Exempt drones from Next Gen (cplan), cap k, politics, Spec Investment</span>