<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; text-align: start;">Spoken Word subject to change...</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">Anthony Paul **Farley No Date** (Albany Law Professor, "The Station")</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">[[#_GoBack]]We strive for progress, to expand faster and bigger, yet the shadows casted by the highways and bridges casts veil of ontological violence that condemns and marginalizes minorities in the status quo into the sidelines of invisibility. <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">We live in a society where predestination isn't just some part of a religion but an invisible disposition that permeates our society on multiple abstracts. Our social location and our literal location determines where we go and when we get there. We are confronted with the resolution question of transportation infrastructure, the "common sense" notion </span>of this nation's infrastructure is as the committee of infrastructure puts it, "To create jobs, boost the economy, and improve the wellbeing of its citizens" . The same sort of transportation infrastructure that segregated blacks from whites, the same transportation infrastructure that forced the minority populations of New Orleans into the basin deathtrap, the same transportation infrastructure that displaced underprivileged communities while catering to the ones who could afford to buy it and I don't just mean with money. Ignorance is not bliss but murder, where forgetting becomes the same as condemning. The duty that we have as we are confronted with this year's resolution is not to simply accept the bleached history of transportation infrastructure as a stepping stone for genocidal progress but to excavate what it meant to invest in transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; color: #222222; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">-John Henry Song-</span>
<span style="background-color: white; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**<span style="background-color: transparent;">NELSON </span>****<span style="background-color: transparent; font-size: 8pt;">Assc. Prof of History @ the College of William and Mary </span>****<span style="background-color: transparent; font-size: 12pt;">2k6</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Scott Reynolds-; //Steel Drivin’ Man –JOHN HENRY- The untold story of an American Legend//; p40.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;"><span class="yiv1317398841Underline">Slavery was never ended in a sentence.</span><span style="font-size: 16pt;"> Through the policy process we illegalized slavery but internalized it. the C&O railroad was not built on legitimate labor, but on the back of exploitation and the libidinal notion of Manifest Destiny which was satisfied through the fungibility of the black body as well as the perverse augmentation of the narrative of John Henry. The slave absent of ontology always ready to be used and disposed, and at the same time, there is a perverse desire to dominate Blacks farther than a material or political relation. John Henry’s narratives of sufferance and death are propagated and celebrated around the country illustrate both these concepts so Americans can sing and dance to a song that was sung while building the endoskeleton of America.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**<span style="background-color: #fff9e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Hartman,</span>**<span style="background-color: #fff9e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> Saidiya V.</span> //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Scenes of Subjection</span>//<span style="background-color: #fff9e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">. New York, Oxford: Oxford University, 19</span>**<span style="background-color: #fff9e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">97</span>**<span style="background-color: #fff9e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">. Print.</span></span>


<span style="background-color: white; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thus, Jeffrey and I endorse </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 13pt;">an affirmation of the topic through an interrogation history through the novel of John Henry.</span>**</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt; text-align: start;">A NORMATIVE AFFIRMATION OF THE RESOLUTION INTERALIZES THE NOTION OF AMERICAN MESSAINISM AND ADOPTS THE GENOCIDAL PSYCHE OF HISTORICAL AMNESIA. THE QUESTIONS OF WHY KATRINA WAS ALLOWED TO HAPPEN, WHY RESIDENTIAL SEGREGATION EXISTS, AND WHY A NORMATIVE INVESTMENT IN TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE JUST DOESN'T CUT IT CAN ONLY BE ANSWERED THROUGH A RADICAL GENEOLOGY OF THE HISTORICITY OF THE RESOLUTION.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TROFANENKO </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Chair in Education, Culture and Community @ Acadia University </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k5</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Brenda-; //On Defense of the Nation//; THE SOCIAL STUDIES, 96.5 (2005): 193+;</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #234786; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">[[@http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.binghamton.edu/ps/i.do?id=GALE%7cA139957613&v=2.1&u=bingul&it=r&p=AONE&sw=w|http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.binghamton.edu/ps/i.do?id=GALE%7CA139957613&v=2.1&u=bingul&it=r&p=AONE&sw=w]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Toward a More Global Sense of the Nation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt; text-align: start;">The debate community is created from a plethora of identities and narratives such as John Henry’s. The way that we integrate ourselves within the community is specific to the individual, but an abandonment of these narratives makes debate irrelevant to many debaters through social distancing causing the decline and eventual extinction of the debate community. Furthermore, an abandonment of these narratives continues an erasure of historicity which continues the destruction and fungibility of narratives such as John Henry’s.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Valdivia-Sutherland</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor at Butte Community College,</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #454545; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cynthia, “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs,” National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting.</span>