[[toc]]
==Cite Requests== 

Affirmative: jgrubbs99@gmail.com
Negative: db8erbibas@gmail.com

We will be posting every version of the 1AC that we read. 1NCs are on McCue's wiki. If there are any other 1nc's you wish to have cites for, they will be posted upon request. We will not give full text.

If Julian doesnt respond, just email Mark

=TOC Quotidian Redress Aff=

Observation One is risk segregation:

Risk is distributed inequitably in the status quo—calculations of utility represents marginal tinkering that sustains a fundamentally unjust system—calls for environmental redress in the name of the disenfranchised and disempowered are sounded but not heeded
Bullard 1999 (Robert, driving figure in environmental justice, “Dismantling environmental racism in the USA” Local Environment 4.1)

In the real world, … limited to risk assessment).

Evental and catastrophic time underwrites this symbolic separation and segregation—calls for environmental justice require the generation of an immediate and eventual harm according to the standards of “crisis and urgency” promulgated in official reports of catastrophe and disaster—only prompting and forcing differential relationships to time can create a framework friendly to environmental justice
Pezzullo 2007 (Phaedra, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Indiana-Bloomington, Toxic Tours p. 176-179)

"Modern societies;' according to … to aim for both.

Privileging the calamities suffered by the political disposseed and disempowered is the only way to remember environmental catastrophes as expressions of systemic problems rather than “accidents” or “exceptions”
Nixon 2011 (Rob, Professor of English at UW-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor p. 2-3)

Looking back at Chernobyl…forces of slow violence.

The official transcript of political catastrophe remains privileged over a systemic account of disaster and violence because of a symbolic and bodily segregation—distance between those who live in safe communities and those who deal with toxic life regularly maintains a balkanized and mutually reinforcing set of ways to understand existence
Conquergood 2002 (Dwight, Professor of Communication Studies and Performance at Northwestern, “Performance Studies” in The Drama Review 46.2, http://www.culturaldevelopment.net.au/downloads/DwightConquergood.pdf)

But de Certeau’s aphorism, …classes take for granted.

Understanding that our acts of consumption and our own political attitudes create real impacts in the here and now is key: the status quo forces a choice between locating blame in institutions or individuals—the question instead is how we might operationalize or see the agency available
Pezzullo 2007 (Phaedra, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Indiana-Bloomington, Toxic Tours p. 65)

The trouble with the …stricter Clean Air Act.

Moreover the question is not a question of means and modes—the resources to eliminate environmental racism are at our disposal—it is a question of will—no community should be sacrificed
Bullard 1999 (Robert, driving figure in environmental justice, “Dismantling environmental racism in the USA” Local Environment 4.1)

¶ The environmental protection apparatus … zone' or dumping ground.

Racism must be resisted—opposition to racism is the only ethical choice
Memmi 2k (Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ U of Paris, Naiteire, Racism, Translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163-165)

The struggle against racism … the stakes are irresistible.

The failure of the environmental justice movement means extinction
Bryant 95 (Bunyan Professor in the School of Natural Resources and Environment – University of Michigan, Environmental Justice: Issues, Policies, and Solutions, p. 208-212)

Although the post-World … have that as a goal.

Observation Two: Quotidian Redress and Real Violence

The status quo remains committed to understanding violence as discrete acts done by discrete agents—we need to reconceptualize violence along lines atteantive to what can and cannot appear “in public”—we must understand the slow violence now that occurs in communities daily, and how our accession to certain visions of realities constitutes and creates that violence
Nixon 2011 (Rob, Professor of English at UW-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor p. 2-3)

Three primary concerns animate …challenges of our time?

Toxic tours force a reconceptualization of the concepts of time, place, space, and body that contribute to the violence of everyday existence
Pezzullo 2007 (Phaedra, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Indiana-Bloomington, Toxic Tours p. 173-175)

Throughout this book I …the concept of"presence."

These toxic tours create a new kind of “public time” that invigorates public dissent, radical politics, and environmental justice
Pezzullo 2007 (Phaedra, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Indiana-Bloomington, Toxic Tours p. 179-183)

Like the oppressive relations … can create palpable effects.

PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially increase its toxic tourism transportation infrastructure in the United States.

Federal lands provide a big solvency deficit—they are very toxic
Seymour 2002 (John, Attorney with the DOI, “Transfer of federal lands..” 27 Colum. J. Envtl. L. 173)

Although the defense agencies … conduct of the remedy.

Place matters—without sited protest on federal toxic sites, government accountability and presence in the narrative of violence will be eliminated
Endres and Senda-Cook 2011 (Danielle and Samantha, Professor of Communication at University of Utah and Professor of Communication at Creighton, in “Location Matters” Quarterly Journal of Speech 97.3)

In her examination of … enacting place in protest.

Toxic tours enable a productive reimagiing of time that produces more effective democratic action
Pezzullo 2007 (Phaedra, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Indiana-Bloomington, Toxic Tours p. 22-23)

Although toxic tours clearly…our way of living.



=Buses Affirmative= 
==1ac-Michigan== 
dvantage 1 is Leadership :

The race for fuel cell technology is happening now
Billmaier 10 (James Billmaier has served as CEO and Chairman of Asymetrix, Melodeo, and Diego, Inc. He had also served as Vice President and General Manager of Sun Microsystems Networking Software Division, http://joltthebook.org/ , copyright 2010)

The internal combustion engine ….the undisputed market leader.

The U.S. will be left behind absent federal investment in fuel cell buses- that spurs commercialization
FCHEA 11 (Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf )

International Competition – International programs ….other heavy‐duty propulsion technologies.

Absent fuel cell vehicles the US gets shut out of global markets and becomes dependent
Jerram 11 (Lisa Jerram is a senior research analyst contributing to Pike Research's Smart Transportation practice Could the United States Lose its Share of the Global Fuel Cell Market? January 28, 2011 http://www.pikeresearch.com/blog/articles/could-the-united-states-lose-its-share-of-the-global-fuel-cell-market )

In my last post, I opined….permanent “first mover” advantage.

Expansion facilitates commercialization and ensures leadership
FCHEA 11 (Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf )

Unit Price At or Under $....and emissions reductions achievable.

Scenario 1 is Hegemony

The race for fuel cell batteries will determine future geopolitical power
Levine 10 (Steve LeVine is a contributing editor at Foreign Policy and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University's Security Studies Program. Foreign Policy November 2010 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/11/the_great_battery_race?hidecomments=yes )

The Chinese government saw….of those who do.

That causes global great power wars
Khalilzad 11 — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 (“The Economy and National Security,” National Review, February 8th, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024 , Accessed 02-08-2011)

Today, economic and fiscal….dangerous era of multi-polarity.

It triggers multiple scenarios for conflict
Thayer 6 (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based….economic prosperity it provides.

Scenario 2 is Readiness:

Energy needs are crippling U.S. warfighting capabilities
Department of the Navy 11 (Manufacturing Fuel Cell Manhattan Project¶ Presented by the Benchmarking and Best Practices Center of Excellence¶ November 2011http://www1.eere.energy.gov/hydrogenandfuelcells/pdfs/manufacturing_fuel_cell_manhattan_project.pdf)

The ability of the ….increasing military energy requirements.

Successful civilian commercialization will lead to military use of fuel cells
Fein 04 (Geoff S. Fein is the Defense Daily's lead reporter covering the Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and intelligence programs, acquisition, research and development, and science and technology. Military Fuel-Cell Programs Not Yet Ready for Prime Time http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2004/February/Pages/Military_Fuel3647.aspx )

While the commercial….loads of batteries to the front lines.

Future electrical power is key to readiness
Sifer 4 (Nicholas Sifer et al 6-2-2004. PMP project engineer, Marine Corps System Command, (Ashok S. Patil, Terry G. Dubois, Nicholas Sifer, Elizabeth Bostic, Kristopher Gardner, Michael Quah, Christopher Bolton), , http://64.233.179.104/scholar?hl=en&lr=&safe=off&q=cache:cIWWJBe6PCEJ:www.eecs.wsu.edu/~pedrow/classes/ee415/Fall_2005/Refereed%20Papers/paper2_cobalt.pdf )

Electrical power for the ….tolerate fuels containing sulfur.

Readiness solves Korean War
Ham 12 (Walter T, General for the 8th army of the US, “General: High Readiness Key to Deter North Korean Threats”, August 10, 2012, http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=117463 ) SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 10, 2012 –

Maintaining a high state of …. people can accomplish together.”

Extinction
Hayes and Hamel-Green 9 (Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14 2009, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267 )

The consequences of failing ….from the international community.

Scenario 3 is Competiveness:

Economic Leadership is on the brink of collapse
Porter and Rivkin 12 (Michael E. Porter is a Bishop William Lawrence University Proffessor based at Harvard Business School, and Jan W. Rivkin is a professor at Harvard Business School, “PROSPERITY AT RISK”, January 2012, http://www.hbs.edu/competitiveness/pdf/hbscompsurvey.pdf )

On any given day….and the public sectors.

Fuel cell tech is key to US economic leadership
Minardi 11 Dean Minardi is the chief financial officer for Bing Energy Inc., a manufacturer of state-of-the-art components for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells Don’t Give Away Our Leadership in Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html

The Obama Administration’s recent….in this important arena.

Economic decline causes war
Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how….ancillary to those views.

These conflicts go nuclear
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf )

Increased Potential for Global….more dog-eat-dog world.

Advantage 2 is Oil:
Supply glut will crash oil prices and kill the industry
Meijer 12 (Editor in chief of The Automatic Earth, Raul Ilargi Meijer, “Unconventional Oil is NOT a Game Changer,” Market Oracle, July 04, 2012 - 04:50 AM , pg. http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article35453.html )

At the same time….generate a price collapse.

Fuel Cell Buses are the critical step to oil independence
NET 3 (National Environmental Trust, “reducing oil dependency to increase national security: re-engineering the automobile”, http://lobby.la.psu.edu/_107th/126_CAFE_Standards_2/Organizational_Statements/NET/NET_Reducing_Oil_Dependency.htm )

In the long term….direct hydrogen infrastructure."31

Scenario 1 is China:

Dependence causes US-Sino SLOC conflict- escalates to war
Glaser 11 (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja , August 2011, PC)

Energy dependence might be….not directly related to oil.

Extinction
Cheong 2k (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)

THE high-intensity scenario….the destruction of civilization.

Scenario 2 is Russia

Dependence creates NATO-Georgia alliance- causes Caspian superpower war
Glaser 11 (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CF8QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx&ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ&usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg&sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw&cad=rja , August 2011, PC)

An alliance formed to….which this conflict occurred.

That goes nuclear
Bandow 12 (Doug, Senior fellow at CATO, How NATO Expansion Makes America Less Safe, http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/how-nato-expansion-makes-america-less-safe , 8/13/12, PC)

Worse, NATO expansion brings….policy would be madness.

That outweighs – only existential risk
Bostrum 2 - March 2002 (Nick – prof of philosophy at Oxford University and recipient of the Gannon Award, Existential Risks, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html )

A much greater existential….in the 21st century.

Contention 3 is solvency:

Current programs are too small, but trigger your DA’s and provide experience- expansion is key
Silver 11 (Vice President of CalSTART http://www.hydrogennet.dk/fileadmin/user_upload/PDF-filer/Brint_og_braendselsceller_internationalt/Dansk-amerikansk_samarbejde/Fuel_Cell_Collaboration_in_the_U_S __aug_2011_vers..pdf "Zero Emission Bus Program")

Recognizing the important role….heavy duty transportation applications.

The plan sparks commercialization-

A. Federal Action
CTE 9 (Center for Transportation and the Environment, A Report on Worldwide Hydrogen Bus Demonstrations, 2002-2007¶ http://www.fuelcells.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/busreport.pdf )

Role of government in….moving the technology forward.

B. Buses are key
Eudy et al 7 (Leslie, Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf )

Over the past several….public knowledge and acceptance.

C. Testing
Eudy et al 7 (Leslie, Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf )

As discussed earlier, in-service….next steps toward commercialization.

D. Public awareness Eudy et al 7 (Leslie, Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, “Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status”, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf )

These early demonstrations are….interest in its area.

E. Fed Key—empirics proves tax incentives and subsidies don’t work Harborne et al 11 (Paul, Chris Hendry a & James Brown, proffesors at Cass Business School, “The Development and Diffusion of Radical Technological Innovation: The Role of Bus Demonstration Projects in Commercializing Fuel Cell Technology”, Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, March 9, 2011, PDF, http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/ctas20 )

The need for government…. fuel cell bus strategy.57

Plan
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in an expanded fuel cell bus program.
=HSR Affirmative= 
==1ac-Michigan== 
===Contention 1 is car crashes=== 

Car crashes are at a peak now, killing a lot of Americans every year.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAA 12</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [</span>AAA Foundation For Traffic Safety a government institute responsible for traffic safety “Distracted Driving” June 26, 2012 AAA Foundation For Traffic Safety is the publisher http://www.aaafoundation.org/multimedia/Distracteddriving.cfm]
The AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety and AAA are concerned about your safety on our
AND
free from now on and then sharing this pledge with friends and family.
The discourse of individual responsibility causes us to displace the blame for car crashes on deviant behavior rather than recognizing that crashes are an inevitable consequence of the cultural system we inhabit. The very act of objectively calculating the car crash participates in a voyeuristic celebration that always treats it as something that only happens to other people – we must refuse this gesture and confront the problem in its immediacy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Brien 02</span> [Wendy O'Brien is a lecturer in Literary and Cultural Studies at Central Queensland University, No specific date in 2002 “No Title” Publisher Cercles http://www.cercles.com/review/r6/brottman.html]
Throughout the volume the automobile is read, predictably enough, as symbolising freedom,
AND
the car crash, parts of this volume are well worth the ride.
Structural violence is a large impact
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4</span>(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkeley; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)
This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this
AND
including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).
The status quo approach to car crashes degrades the quality of our lives
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mckenna 12</span>[Laine McKenna author on EzineArticles and multiple current event blogs 2012 “The Impact of Drunk Driving Accidents and How a Personal Injury Lawyer Can Help” EDF publishing [[http://www.abcarticledirectory.com/Article/...Accidents.../1456114]]]
Car accidents can be devastating mentally, physically, psychologically, and financially. Even
AND
means you have nothing to lose and everything to gain by contacting one.
Car culture is unsustainable – the only question is when and how we make the transition
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graves-Brown’97 </span>( Graves-Brown, P , “From Highway to Superhighway: The Sustainability, Symbolism and Situated Practices of Car Culture Social Analysis. Vol. 41, pp. 64-75. 1997”, http://md1.csa.com/partners/viewrecord.php?requester=gs&collection=ENV&recid=5182080&q=car+culture&uid=789848837&setcookie=yes)

Car culture is unsustainable: not only are the emissions harmful to the environment,
AND
the automobile highway or the electronic superhighway will prove to be culturally sustainable technologies
High speed rail is insanely safe – zero recorded crashes after 40 years of operation in Japan or France
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">California High-Speed Rail Authority, 8 </span>(state agency planning future high speed rail network, 2008, “Safety”, California High-Speed Rail Authority, http://www.cahighspeedrail.ca.gov/safety.aspx)
High-speed train systems have been operated safely every day in other parts of
AND
and more vehicles on our highways, the potential for automobile accidents increases.
HSR will reduce dependency on cars and car crashes
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CoPIRG 11</span>, Organization for college students to tackle the world’s problems, Nov. 10, 2011
“A Track Record of Success: High-Speed Rail Around the World and Its Promise for America”, [[http://www.copirgstudents.org/reports/co/track-record-success-high-speed-rail-around-world-and-its-promise-america%20/|http://www.copirgstudents.org/reports/co/track-record-success-high-speed-rail-around-world-and-its-promise-america \]]

A U.S. high-speed rail network could help offer alternatives to
AND
to high-speed rail could also reduce pressure for costly highway expansions.
HSR not only immediately relieves the need for millions to use cars, but will spur other public transportation projects which cause a cultural shift away from automobile use
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kambitsis, 10</span>(Jason, editor for Wired Magazine and senior planner for City of Pittsburgh, “High-Speed Rail As a Conduit of Sprawl”, March 16, Wired, [[http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/03/high-speed-rail-and-sprawl/]])

Proactive land use policies focused on increasing urban density coupled with incentives for transit-
AND
and the communities it connects — a guidepost to the future of transportation.

Plan

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national magnetic levitation express train infrastructure system.</span>

Contention 2 is Solvency

Maglev solves – it is __safer__ and __cleaner__ than status quo forms of mobility
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Daschle 12</span> (Tom, served as the Senate majority leader, is now a senior policy adviser at DLA Piper, Northeast needs next generation's rail tech, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0712/78355_Page2.html

As anyone who travels the Northeast corridor knows, travel options are limited at best
AND
more. It’s time to bring a technology born in America back home.


Oil
Advantage 3 is Oil
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oil dependence in transportation guarantees peak oil and global resource wars---only HSR now solves </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Perl 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "How Green is High Speed Rail", CNN, [[@http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]])</span>
Any debate about the future of high-speed rail must consider where this mobility
AND
-speed rail to decrease transportation's oil consumption sooner, rather than later.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US is dependent on Middle Eastern oil – domestic production insufficient</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cavell 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Assistant Professor at the University of Bahrain (Dr. Colin Cavell, Center for Research on Globalization, “America's Dependency On Middle East Oil”, 4/11/12, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=30177)</span>

Currently, approximately 35% of the world’s seaborne crude oil extracted from the Earth
AND
and other ‘strategic’ resources outweighs the nation’s avowed values to support democracy.


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan ends oil dependence __quickly__—Europe proves</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">USHSRA 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (US High Speed Rail Association, “ENERGY SECURITY”, http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">A national high speed rail system ends our oil dependency quickly & permanently </span>**</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Building an electrically-powered national high speed rail network across America is the single most powerful thing we can do to get the nation off oil and into a secure, sustainable form of mobility. A national network of high speed trains can be powered by a combination of renewable energy sources including wind, solar, geothermal, and ocean/tidal energy.</span>**</span>
America's dependency on oil is the most severe in the world, and inevitably pulls
AND
with our sprawling community designs that force people into cars for every trip.
As the world oil supply begins to peak and then irreversibly declines, prices will
AND
fuel we use daily in any practical, economical, or sustainable way.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oil dependence forces sustained presence in the Middle East which trades off with strategic pivots to Asia</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Daniel </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Krcmaric 6-20</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow and a Ph.D. candidate in Political Science at Duke University, June 20, 2012, “Looking Ahead: America’s Role in the Middle East,” Global Trends 2030, online: http://gt2030.com/2012/06/20/looking-ahead-americas-role-in-the-middle-east/</span>
As the United States winds down its involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan and implements a
AND
the extent that the United States reduces its dependence on Middle Eastern oil.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Effective strategic pivot contains China`s rise</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colby 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Elbridge Colby, research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses, served as policy advisor to the Secretary of Defense’s Representative to the New START talks, expert advisor to the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, August 10, 2011, “Why the U.S. Needs its Liberal Empire,” The Diplomat, online: [[http://the-diplomat.com/2011/08/10/why-us-needs-its-liberal-empire/2/?print=yes]]</span>
But the pendulum shouldn’t be allowed to swing too far toward an incautious retrenchment.
AND
The ability and will to intervene is too important to be so wasted.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PRC rise causes regional instability that draws every major power</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Walton 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49</span>
Obviously, it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC does
AND
a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.

Contention one is Warming

First, warming is real – stopping it is a question of slowing emissions, not total elimination
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deibel 7</span> (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as
AND
States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.
The track we’re on now means death before the century ends
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mazo 10</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA, Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122

The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2
AND
adaptation to these extremes would mean profound social, cultural and political changes.

HSR solves it by eliminating the need for cars and planes
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dutzik et al. 10</span> — Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, et al., with Siena Kaplan, Analyst with Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall, Federal Tax and Budget Policy Analyst with U.S. PIRG, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.A. in Economics from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, 2010 (“Why Intercity Passenger Rail?,” //The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America//, Published by the U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf, Accessed 06-10-2012, p. 15-16)

Passenger rail is a cleaner form of transportation than car or air travel, emitting
AND
The resulting fuel savings add to the emissions reductions from improving passenger rail.
The U.S. is the main contributor to global warming – that means the plan solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gore 7</span> (Albert, 45th Vice President of the United States, currently an author and environmental activist. He has founded a number of non-profit organizations, including the Alliance for Climate Protection, and has received a Nobel Peace Prize for his work in climate change activism, “An Inconvenient Truth”, [[http://cabunch.public.iastate.edu/Revised%20Paper%20An%20Inconvenient%20Truth.pdf]], JNP)
Al Gore talks about several mountains and glacier parks from all over the ¶ world
AND
puts more pressure on the Earth for more food and ¶ more water.

Even if we don’t win solvency other countries will follow us – that means we spill over globally
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wirth et al 3</span> (Timothy E, President of the UN Foundation – along with C. Boyden Gray and John D. Podesta – also of the UN Foundation, “The Future of Energy Policies,” Foreign Affairs, July/August, p. 132, lexis).

Energy is a common thread weaving through the fabric of critical American interests and global
AND
the direction of action far beyond its borders and far into the future.

HSR results in massive drop in CO2 emissions
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CCAP and CNT 6</span>** – Center for Clean Air Policy and Center for Neighborhood Technology (“High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S.”, January 2006, http://www.cnt.org/repository/HighSpeedRailEmissions.pdf)
*Based on scientific models
High speed rail is often cited as a solution to many transportation problems: It
AND
California’s could prove the value of faster trains with higher upfront capital costs.


Warming will increase virulence and spread of disease, risking epidemics that are a bigger threat than bioweapons

Beth **__Daley__**, journalist, “Disease Threat Cited in Global Warming,” COMMONDREAMS.ORG, 6-21-**__02__**, [[http://www.commondreams.org/headlines02/0621-03.htm]], accessed 5-17-08.

Warming temperatures around the world are increasing the geographical range and virulence of diseases,
AND
of the authors. ''It's a much more scary threat than bioterrorism.''

Three Diseases kill 5.4 Million people every year
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">THE ’01</span> (Theres Higher Education, “Each year, three diseases kill 5.4 million people worldwide”, July 20, 2011, [[http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/story.asp?storycode=163977]])

As epidemics ravage the third world, Fabià Gumbau-Brisa reports on the issues
AND
of the almost 6 million annual infections occur in sub-Saharan Africa.

Global warming risks profound injustice on people of color in the United States and internationally
Maxine <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burkett ‘8 </span>(Professor of Law, Associate Professor, University of Colorado Law School, 2008, “Just Solutions to Climate Change: A Climate Justice Proposal for a Domestic Clean Development Mechanism,” 56 Buffalo L. Rev. 169, Lexis)

The profound injusticesthat inhere in climate change's disproportionate effects are obvious, yet two of
AND
process of crafting solutions, "fair outcomes will only ever be coincidental."
Contention 3 is Solvency
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Surveys prove there will be __strong ridership__</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dutzik et al. 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">— Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, et al., with Siena Kaplan, Analyst with Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall, Federal Tax and Budget Policy Analyst with U.S. PIRG, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.A. in Economics from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, 2010 (“Why Intercity Passenger Rail?,” //The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America//, Published by the U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf, Accessed 06-10-2012, p. 15)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Trains are often a preferred mode of travel</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, especially for distances between 100 and 500 miles. A</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 2009 </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">survey found that</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> if fare and travel time were equal, 54 percent of Americans would prefer to travel to cities in their region by high-speed rail, with only 33 percent preferring car travel and 13 preferring air travel. Of Americans who had actually ridden high-speed rail, an overwhelming 82 percent preferred it to air travel</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.29</span>

Maglev solves best and it’s feasible – japan proves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Daschle 12</span> (Tom, served as the Senate majority leader, is now a senior policy adviser at DLA Piper, Northeast needs next generation's rail tech, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0712/78355_Page2.html

As anyone who travels the Northeast corridor knows, travel options are limited at best
AND
more. It’s time to bring a technology born in America back home.


__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fed Key—</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A) Planning</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dutzik et al. 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> — Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, et al., with Siena Kaplan, Analyst with Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall, Federal Tax and Budget Policy Analyst with U.S. PIRG, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.A. in Economics from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, 2010 (“High-Speed Passenger Rail: Going From Vision to Reality,” //The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America//, Published by the U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf, Accessed 06-10-2012, p. 53-55)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Building a passenger rail network worthy of the 21st century will not be easy, quick or cheap. But there are many reasons—from congestion on highways and airports to the need to wean America off of oil and curb global warming pollution—why </span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">bold investment is vital</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">At a time of economic challenges and budget shortfalls at all levels of government, it is critical</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">that America </span>**</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">spend what is necessary</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> on high-speed rail</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, but that it also gets the greatest possible value for the investment. The following principles should guide America’s investment in passenger rail to ensure that the nation gets the rail system we deserve at a price we can afford.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. Invest Adequate Resources</span>
America’s passenger rail system is in its current sorry shape largely because of the failure
AND
to complete a rail journey today than it did in the 1920s.225
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The </span>**</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">worst</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, most costly mistake</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> America</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [end page 53] </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">can make</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> going into the 21st century is to notinvest adequate resources in upgrading and expanding our passenger rail network. </span>**</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failing to invest will necessitate even greater spending on highways and airports</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, deepen our costly dependence on foreign oil, and </span>**</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">forestall the economic growth</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> that can result from improved connections among people, businesses and institutions</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
The first step in determining an adequate level of investment is to recognize that America
AND
high-speed rail network worthy of the world’s most economically advanced nation.
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">To begin to dig out</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of that hole, </span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">the federal government should invest steadily increasing levels of funding in passenger rail</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. We probably cannot hope to match the $300 billion China will be investing in its high-speed rail system between now and 2020, but </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">we should endeavor to match the level of investment provided by other industrialized nations, as a share of GDP, in their rail networks</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Currently, America’s public investment in inter-city rail is far lower than that
AND
the United States will need to invest far more than it has historically.
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">As important as the lack of funding has been the instability of funding for passenger rail in the U</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">S</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates, </span><span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">which has made it difficult to undertake </span>**</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">long-term capital planning</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> and to build the </span>**</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">investor confidence</span>//<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> necessary to establish vibrant domestic industries to supply rail equipment.</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">B)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Investor Confidence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Yonah, Founder, Writer at The Transport Politic, With Little Hope for Near-Term Federal Support, California High-Speed Rail Struggles, [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/10/20/with-little-hope-for-near-term-federal-support-california-high-speed-rail-struggles/]])</span>
Despite an excellent proposal and significant state support, the project cannot hope to attract
AND
beneficial to the society as a whole from a long-term perspective.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">C)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">State conflicts of interest</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Freemark, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [April 19th, 2010, Yonah Freemark, “Is the U.S. Ready for a Sustained High-Speed Rail Funding Source?”, </span>[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/|__http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">]</span>

If, as has been evident recently, Washington is reluctant to identify corridors for
AND
distributed to projects that shouldn’t be at the top of the priority list.



==1AC - Georgetown and Wake== 
**Contention 1 is the Economy**
**Double Dip is coming now**
**The Inquisitr 8-27** (Stock Market, World Economy Headed For Crash, Some Experts Say, 2012, http://www.inquisitr.com/198518/stock-market-world-economy-headed-for-crash-some-experts-say/)

Although news regarding the economy has been somewhat cautiously hopeful in recent months, most
AND
economy is facing future stock market crashes and unrest as the situation persists?

**Status quo economic trajectory ensures decline–hasn’t adapted to the post-industrial knowledge economy**
**Florida 10**— Richard Florida, Senior Editor at The Atlantic, Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute and Professor of Business and Creativity at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, previously held professorships at George Mason University and Carnegie Mellon University and taught as a visiting professor at Harvard and MIT, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, 2010 (“The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery,” The New Republic, August 12th, Available Online at http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future, Accessed 06-10-2012)

But now we find ourselves having the wrong debate—about whether a stimulus is
AND
work at PARC, realized their potential, and put the pieces together.

**Four internal links to the economy**
**A) Bizcon and congestion**
**McMahon, ’11**[3/29/11, Jeff McMahon, Contributor @ Forbes, “High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says”, __http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/__]

Opposition to high-speed rail imperils U.S. economic growth, the
AND
believe that sustainable mobility is at the heart of economic growth and development.”

**B. International competitiveness**
**Messina, ‘12** [February 2012, Fred Messina is a Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure @ Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology and strategy consultant company, “Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel”,http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF]

Airport-to-airport high-speed railalso is an example of how
AND
kind of innovative thinking that must be applied to our entire transportation system.

**C. Keynesian economics**
**Biden 10**– Co-chairman Rosemont Seneca Partners LLC and Adviser to HNTB Corporation, member of the bar in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He also was on Amtrak’s board of directors, serving as vice chairman from 2007–09. [Hunter Biden, summer 2010, “The Great Multiplier,” InTransit, Pg. 3-4]

The U.S. national high-speed rail program, the largest infrastructure
AND
high-speed rail is one of the keys to realizing that goal.

**Keynesian empirics go aff**
**Business Insider ’11**(8/3/11, “No, It Won't "Fix The Economy" -- But It Will Help,” __http://articles.businessinsider.com/2011-10-03/news/30237732_1_richard-koo-government-stimulus-economy__)

In addition to Japan, one of the most often-repeated examples cited by
AND
which focus on the Japan, Depression, and recent US and Europe experiences

**And, there’s a multiplier effect of 2.8**
**Han ’12**( Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, Feb 2012,__http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html__)

Besides its improving effects on productive capacity as the major reason for the infrastructure investment
AND
for more spending, or at least less cuts, on infrastructure projects.

**Keynesian spending causes investor crowd in**
**Krugman ’09**(Joined The New York Times in 1999 as a columnist on the Op-Ed Page and continues as professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University. Mr. Krugman received his B.A. from Yale University in 1974 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1977. He has taught at Yale, MIT and Stanford. At MIT he became the Ford International Professor of Economics, “Crowding In,” 9/28/09,http://economistsview.typepad.com/economistsview/2009/09/crowding-in.html)

Why, exactly, do we think that budget deficits are a bad thing?
AND
, budget surpluses are likely to foster capital formation and speed up growth.

**Austerity is worse**
**Woolner ’11** (David, is a Senior Fellow and Hyde Park Resident Historian for the Roosevelt Institute, Roosevelt Institute, “Repeating Our Mistakes: The ‘Roosevelt Recession’ and the Danger of Austerity,” http://www.rooseveltinstitute.org/new-roosevelt/repeating-our-mistakes-roosevelt-recession-and-danger-austerity)

In 1937, after five years of sustained economic growth and a steadily declining unemployment rate
AND
the federal government’s role in the economy than in learning from the past.


**Decline causes war**
**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

**Economic recovery is key to heg—solves great power war**
**Khalilzad 11** Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024

Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.


**Hegemony is sustainable**
**Norrlof**, professor of politics, **10** - an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Toronto (Carla, “ America’s Global Advantage US Hegemony and International Cooperation” p. 1-2)

The United States has been the most powerful country in the world for more than
AND
States from the extreme consequences that a sustained deficit policy would otherwise have.


**The alternative to hegemony is global great power wars**
**Kagan 12** – Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution (Robert, member of the Foreign Policy Advisory Board of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Foreign Policy Advisory Board of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, 2/11/12, “Why the World Needs America,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)

History shows that world orders, including our own, are transient. They rise
AND
what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.

**That goes nuclear**
**Kagan 7** (Robert, Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment of International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 2007, AD: 07/11/12, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)

Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also
AND
that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global


**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national magnetic levitation express train infrastructure system.**

**Contention 2 is Oil Dependence**
**Oil dependence in transportation guarantees peak oil and global resource wars---only HSR now solves**
**Perl 11** (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "How Green is High Speed Rail", CNN, http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html)

Any debate about the future of high-speed rail must consider where this mobility
AND
-speed rail to decrease transportation's oil consumption sooner, rather than later.

**US is dependent on Middle Eastern oil – domestic production insufficient**
**Cavell 12** – Assistant Professor at the University of Bahrain (Dr. Colin Cavell, Center for Research on Globalization, “America's Dependency On Middle East Oil”, 4/11/12, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=30177)

Currently, approximately 35% of the world’s seaborne crude oil extracted from the Earth
AND
and other ‘strategic’ resources outweighs the nation’s avowed values to support democracy.


**The plan ends oil dependence quickly—Europe proves**
**USHSRA 12** – (US High Speed Rail Association, “ENERGY SECURITY”, http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html)

A national high speed rail system ends our oil dependency quickly & permanently Building an
AND
fuel we use daily in any practical, economical, or sustainable way.


**Oil dependence forces sustained presence in the Middle East which trades off with strategic pivots to Asia**
Daniel **Krcmaric 6-20**, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow and a Ph.D. candidate in Political Science at Duke University, June 20, 2012, “Looking Ahead: America’s Role in the Middle East,” Global Trends 2030, online: http://gt2030.com/2012/06/20/looking-ahead-americas-role-in-the-middle-east/

As the United States winds down its involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan and implements a
AND
the extent that the United States reduces its dependence on Middle Eastern oil.

**Effective strategic pivot contains China`s rise**
**Colby 11**– Elbridge Colby, research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses, served as policy advisor to the Secretary of Defense’s Representative to the New START talks, expert advisor to the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, August 10, 2011, “Why the U.S. Needs its Liberal Empire,” The Diplomat, online: http://the-diplomat.com/2011/08/10/why-us-needs-its-liberal-empire/2/?print=yes

But the pendulum shouldn’t be allowed to swing too far toward an incautious retrenchment.
AND
The ability and will to intervene is too important to be so wasted.

**PRC rise causes regional instability that draws every major power**
**Walton 7** – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49

Obviously, it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC does
AND
a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Surveys prove there will be strong ridership**
**Dutzik et al. 10**— Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, et al., with Siena Kaplan, Analyst with Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall, Federal Tax and Budget Policy Analyst with U.S. PIRG, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.A. in Economics from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, 2010 (“Why Intercity Passenger Rail?,” The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America, Published by the U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf, Accessed 06-10-2012, p. 15)

Trains are often a preferred mode of travel, especially for distances between 100 and
AND
speed rail, an overwhelming 82 percent preferred it to air travel.29

**Maglev solves best and it’s feasible – japan proves**
**Daschle 12** (Tom, served as the Senate majority leader, is now a senior policy adviser at DLA Piper, Northeast needs next generation's rail tech, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0712/78355_Page2.html

As anyone who travels the Northeast corridor knows, travel options are limited at best
AND
more. It’s time to bring a technology born in America back home.

**Maglev causes switchover and federal action is key**
**Kasai 12** (Yoshiyuki, Chairman, Central Japan Railway Company (JR Central), Superconducting Maglev a Revolutionary Concept, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/yoshiyuki-kasai/superconducting-maglev-a-_b_971425.html)

The invention of the railway in early 19th-century Britain was a revolution that
AND
we are proceeding along the path we have set ourselves hand in hand.

**Fed Key—**
**A) Planning**
**Dutzik et al. 10** — Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, et al., with Siena Kaplan, Analyst with Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall, Federal Tax and Budget Policy Analyst with U.S. PIRG, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.A. in Economics from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, 2010 (“High-Speed Passenger Rail: Going From Vision to Reality,” The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America, Published by the U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf, Accessed 06-10-2012, p. 53-55)


Building a passenger rail network worthy of the 21st century will not be easy,
AND
the investor confidence necessary to establish vibrant domestic industries to supply rail equipment.

**B) Investor Confidence**
**Freemark 11** (Yonah,Founder, Writer at The Transport Politic,With Little Hope for Near-Term Federal Support, California High-Speed Rail Struggles,http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/10/20/with-little-hope-for-near-term-federal-support-california-high-speed-rail-struggles/

Despite an excellent proposal and significant state support, the project cannot hope to attract
AND
beneficial to the society as a whole from a long-term p
[[toc]]
==
rk, ’10** [April 19th, 2010, Yonah Freemark, “Is the U.S. Ready for a Sustained High-Speed Rail Funding Source? http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/

If, as has been evident recently, Washington is reluctant to identify corridors for
AND
distributed to projects that shouldn’t be at the top of the priority list.

==Negative== 

See Pine Crest McCue and Levy