=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==Space Elevators== 
===Aviation=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">NASA has lost its groove.</span>**
<span class="stylestylebold12pt0">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Hsu 11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Jeremy, MSNBC Science, Innovation News Daily, “How NASA could get its groove back”</span>
<span style="color: purple; font-family: Georgia;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45515176/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/t/how-nasa-could-get-its-groove-back/#.UQKmwkpjI9B|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45515176/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/t/how-nasa-could-get-its-groove-back/#.UQKmwkpjI9B]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">) ///ZABD///</span>


MSNBC - NASA's better days can appear long past to the public … Why not float free?¶


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan uniquely increases NASA innovation – non rocket focus.</span>**
<span class="stylestylebold12pt0">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Curtin 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Keith Curtis, Software Design Engineer, author of “After the Software Wars,” “A Space Elevator in 7,” 2010, </span><span style="color: purple; font-family: Georgia;">[[http://keithcu.com/wordpress/?page_id=417]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">) ///ZABD/// (cite from GBN).</span>

Only a government bureaucracy can make such little progress in 50 years and consider it business as usual… And as a side effect it would strengthen international relations.5

**NASA research and development spills over into the aerospace industry, specifically creating cleaner fuel, which is an issue currently plaguing the industry due to rising fuel prices, especially as oil dependence grows alongside prices. And NASA is key to air traffic control, which made for efficient would streamline costs in the aerospace industry, thus boosting it.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NAST 8</span> (NAST is a dedicated non-profit-organization with intent to find balance between aeronautics and NASA. “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century” pg. 9) ///ZABD///

Reinvention of the US air transportation system into an environmentally friendly,¶ safe and highly energy efficient system… GPS based guidance system that truly integrates¶ individual planes with the air traffic control system.¶

**And these contributions by NASA are key to maintaining the industry and global competitiveness.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NAST 8</span> (NAST is a dedicated non-profit-organization with intent to find balance between aeronautics and NASA. “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century” pg. 9) ///ZABD///

Impact on Innovation & Competitiveness: Charging NASA with the grand challenge of¶ reinventing our air transportation … a higher priority on cooperation and collaboration to¶ address these national issues in the most efficient manner.


**The industry is a key contributor to the economy due to jobs and exports.**
Trupo 11 (Mary, June 21, International Trade Association, “AEROSPACE INDUSTRY IS CRITICAL CONTRIBUTOR TO U.S. ECONOMY ACCORDING TO OBAMA TRADE OFFICIAL AT PARIS AIR SHOW” [[http://trade.gov/press/press-releases/2011/aerospace-industry-critical-contributor-to-us-economy-062111.asp]]) [Pismarov]

PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show… Ninety-one percent of U.S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">When economic fortitude wavers so does US hard and soft power.</span>**
<span class="stylestylebold12pt0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mason 09</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">-[David Mason, Prof., Political Science, Butler U. The End of the American century, 2009, 13</span>__.]

The crux of the American problem is economic decline… Thus, economic decline.


**The strength of American hegemony is vital to the Israeli perception of security**
**Thayer, ‘7** – Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota
[Bradley A. __American Empire: A Debate__. Routledge Press: Taylor and Francis Group, NY. Page # below in <>]

Third, our allies like … against the allies of the United States. <16>


**Israel will stop its nuclear ambiguity if it feels threatened**
**CSM, ‘6**
(December. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1214/p07s02-wome.html]]</span>)

The only inside documentation of the program was made public in the 1980s … For a balance of terror so that both sides don't use the bomb, you need to know that the other side has the bomb."


**That causes a nuclear arms race and relapse into war**
**Joshi**, **’00** – Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA
(Sharaad. <span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_mar00.html|March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12)]]</span> “Israel’s nuclear policy: A cost benefit analysis” http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html)

Israel’s opaque nuclear posture helps maintain a nuclear status quo in the Middle East.Any attempt at an official disclosureor testing of …Until there is comprehensive peace in the region, it might be best not to acknowledge the nuclear issue at all.

===Colonization=== 

**Expense is preventing colonization.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wisegeek 12 </span>(clear answers for common questions, a team of researchers, writers and editors dedicated to providing short, clear and concise answers to common questions. Currently, there are over 200 active contributors <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wisegeek.com/who-is-wisegeek.htm]]</span> How Will Space Colonies Be Built?) ///ZABD///

Extensive NASA and independent studies have found that all the necessary materials for space colonization are … At least two companies have already announced plans to build space hotels, and one company - Bigelow Aerospace - already has a test module in orbit.¶


**Space elevator key to colonization.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ragan 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Australian typesetter and publishing agent, for self publishing and ebook sales/ “Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator”/ Page 158/ 10/27/2010/ ¶ http://books.google.com/books?id=SEZShT-k5EAC&pg=PA232&lpg=PA232&dq=space+elevators+colonization&source=bl&ots=E1BlSIgIj6&sig=Vng-33eRYN6biiYTekw-Ts2-7gU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=i2q6UPitM4aIiALA2YGQBQ&ved=0CFAQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=true //RGP//</span>

//Each Space Elevator will be able to deliver 1500 tons of material¶ to the Moon or Mars every year…. Mas and the asteroids¶ will be colonized next followed by the moons of the larger planets.¶//


//**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction is inevitable without colonization. Here’s the laundry list – and colonization solves unemployment and resources.</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Falconi2001</span>(endorsed by Stephen Hawking <http://nutri.com/space/> URGENT UPDATE://
//A 16th Oct. 2001 WARNING by Cosmologist PROF. STEPHEN HAWKING)<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>///ZABD/
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EPIDEMICS, VACCINATIONS, MODERN LIVING, POLLUTION, NUCLEAR WAR </span>//

//Unfortunately, mankind reproduces itself in series. One generation begets the next. When one generation ceases to exist all future generations are lost… And to achieve all this, there'll be no need to fight a war. In fact, a disastrous war may well be prevented and our civilization rescued.//


//**Space exploration solves resource depletion**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atkinson 2011</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- is a science journalist who writes mainly about space exploration and astronomy/ Universe Today/ “Astronaut Explains Why We Should Return to the Moon”/ 3/30/2012/ http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/ </span>// RGP

Since we live in a world of finite resources and the global population continues to grow, at some point the human race must utilize resources from space in order to survive… The first step is a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.

==== ==== 
**Space colonies solve scarcity on Earth as well as overpopulation – otherwise extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NASA 2010</span> - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NASA HQ Library supports the shared NASA mission of pioneering the future/ “Space Colonization”/ March 2010/ http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/hqlibrary/pathfinders/colony.htm // RGP</span>

One of the major environmental concerns of our time is the increasing consumption of Earth's resources to sustain our way of life. … The Future of Space Exploration, and Nuclear Power in Outer Space.


**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Resource wars risk extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman 7 </span>(Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization) 2007“Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them” http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm)

With the world's energy supplies finite, the US heavily dependent on imports, and "peak oil" near or approaching… what might have followed and whether planet earth, or at least a big part of it, would have survived.

===Plan Text=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Thus, the United States federal government should substantially increase its space elevator investment in the United States.</span>
===**Solvency**=== 
CNT in status quo can support space elevator.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Emspak 13 (</span>I've been a journalist for 15 years and a fan of science for a lot longer. Writing about physics to biology. Discovery News. “ ROBOTICS Now Nanotubes Can be Spun into Spools of Wires” <http://news.discovery.com/tech/robotics/carbon-nanotubes-spun-spools-wires-130111.htm>) ///ZABD///

Carbon nanotubes are lightweight, stronger than steel … has all the good qualities of metal wire and none of the bad, such as brittleness, corrosion or overheating.

No advance in space exploration without elevator.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Laubscher 7</span> (Where Can We Afford to Go with Rockets? [[http://www.spaceelevator.com/2007/07/where-can-we-afford-to-go-with-rockets.html#comment-40918|http://www.spaceelevator.com/2007/07/where-can-we-afford-to-go-with-rockets.html#comment-40918]] Director, Canadian Space Commerce Association
Director, Mars Institute, Director, MoonViews LLC) ///ZABD///

Introduction¶ There is an old adage: “Getting there isn’t half the fun, it is all the fun!” … Space Elevator technology, it is the missing piece to open space as a place to solve problems here on Earth.


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Height overcomes Coriolis effect.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Cohen, Master’s Degree, Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering, founder of The Engineer's Pulse, response to Jeffrey Kluger’s article “An Elevator to Space? Better Take the Stairs,” November 21, 2011, [[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2099830,00.html]]) ///ZABD///</span>

Then, of course, there's the physics…. which puts us a wee bit further still from the 11 in. (28 cm) of nanotube we've got so far.
=Negative= 
==T== 
===Vehicles=== 
**The aff’s not topical — it increases vehicles which are distinct from infrastructure**
**Amosweb 12** (“Taking A Ride On TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE” A pedestrian’s guide to the economy, http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=pdg&c=dsp&k=47, ken)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">We</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> usually </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">think about... AND... boats need docks and ports</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

===Military=== 
**Infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__ – it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">One way to define infrastructure... AND... transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

===Capital Expenditure=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Investment is capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">CBO, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In this analysis... AND... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">research and development</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">DA</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Elections</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama will win-most recent swing state polling proves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Witt, 10/25</span>** [Ryan, The Examiner, “Updated Obama versus Romney polls in the 10 key swing states,” http://www.examiner.com/article/updated-obama-versus-romney-polls-the-10-key-swing-states, ALB]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">most recent polls... AND... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">losing Florida and North Carolina.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FUNDING transportation programs causes public backlash EVEN IF the programs generally have support</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernstein Research, 12</span>**-Sanford C. Bernstein is widely recognized as Wall Street’s premier sell-side research firm<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (“Washington Research: The McBee 2012 Preview -Transportation Infrastructure Investment: "The Responsibility</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">of Governing"2/3, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.fraternalalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/Washington-Research-2012-Preview-Transportation-Funding.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Whether those are... AND... per gallon since 1993</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Increased spending costs Obama the election-Fiscal issues are EXTREMELY important to swing voters</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kraushaar, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-National Journal writer</span> (Josh, 5/14/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]]</span>)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">If unemployment was... AND... </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">dissatisfaction still runs high.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The impact is CTBT-</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1.Obama’s pushing to ratify CTBT – his defeat crushes the initiative</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schneidmiller, 11 </span>(Chris "Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty," Global Security Newswire, 7-18, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20110714_9351.php)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The Obama administration is... AND... place in Washington.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2.US Ratification Is Key To Prevent Global Prolif and Nuke War.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Davis, 9</span>-Co-Executive Director of the British American Security Information Council, (Ian, “Getting the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Back on Track” 05-11)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">This can't happen too soon... AND... other key states</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

====<span class="underline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">2NC Financial Regulation Scenario</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Republican administration would halt financial regulation-causes global economic crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Konczal, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">-fellow at the Roosevelt Institute [Michael, “Financial Regulation,” Washington Monthly, January/February, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/financial_regulation034477.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ALB]</span>
Immediately after the GOP... AND... on financial reform.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global economic decline causes extinction</span>**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9 –**Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span>]
Conversly, global policymakers... AND... a big bang.

===Federalism=== 
**Transportation funding is the single most important issue for federalism**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Horowitz 12</span> (Daniel Horowitz, Devolve Transportation Spending to the States, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.redstate.com/dhorowitz3/2012/01/19/devolve-transportation-spending-to-states/]]</span>, Jaunary 19th 2012)
There is no issue... AND... bold conservative solutions.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">India does and will model U.S. federalism</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Antholis, 12-managing director of the Brookings Institution and a senior fellow in Governance Studies (William J., “In India, Two States, but One Nation,” 1/24, </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">http://www.brookings.edu/up-front/posts/2012/01/24-india-state-antholis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">But in a continent... AND... states and cities.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federalism key to resolve Kashmir crisis</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dossani and Vijaykumar,9 (Rafiq, Srinidhi,Indian Federalism and the Conduct of Foreign Policy in Border States: State Participation and Central Accommodation since 1990 Domestic Politics and Indian Foreign Policy, A. Mattoo and H Joseph (eds), New Delhi: Routledge)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The issue of Kashmiri... AND... democracy was at work.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kashmir conflict results in nuclear extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fai, 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council (Ghulam Nabi, Washington Times, 7/8)</span>
The foreign policy... AND... the entire globe.

===Fiscal Cliff=== 
**Fiscal cliff will be resolved now-It’s a question of maintaining a delicate compromise between spending reductions and tax increases**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Dennis, 11/16 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">[Steven T., Roll Call,“GOP Moves Toward Obama on Taxes in Fiscal Cliff Talks,” http://www.rollcall.com/news/gop_moves_toward_obama_on_taxes_in_fiscal_cliff_talks-219271-1.html?pos=hftxt, ALB] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The four top leaders... AND... found on YouTube</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan causes political backlash-Empirical backlash against surface transportation funding</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Puentes, 10 - senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> [Robert, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two</span><span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">‐</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Year Transportation Law,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf, ALB]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Yet the nation's... AND... for the program</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Pol cap is key and a failure leads to recession and debt increase-And, it will pass</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Raju, 11/4** [Manu, Politico, “Max Baucus expects post-election plan from Obama,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1112/83300.html</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia;">, ALB]</span>
An emboldened President... AND... the ball rolling."

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The impact-</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1. Failure to compromise on the fiscal cliff causes __global economic collapse__ </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Dadush, 11/7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">-senior associate and director of Carnegie’s International Economics Program, previous World Bank director of international trade and director of economic policy [Uri, “U.S. fiscal cliff risks dragging global economy into darkness,” http://edition.cnn.com/2012/11/07/business/opinion-dadush-obama-economy/index.html, ALB]</span>
One thing is certain... AND... opposed electoral platforms.

**2.Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9 –**Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span>]
Conversly, global policymakers... AND... a big bang.

====2NC Middle East Scenario==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Presidential leadership is key to a compromise –</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Hutchison 9/21 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">9/21</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">**/**2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Despite warnings of the ... AND... punish working families.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Middle East goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Russell 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(James A. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Russell**,**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, </span><span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">‘9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf</span>
Strategic stability in... AND... the entire world.

====2NC Environment Scenario==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Failure to avoid fiscal cliff collapses the environment and leads to invasive species </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">McLendon, 11/15 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Russell, “The Fiscal Cliff and the Environment,” [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/eco-nomics/2012/11/15/the-fiscal-cliff-and-the-environment/]], ALB]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Unless Obama and Congress... AND... lands and health."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Invasive species cause extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Viki </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Nadol 99</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, JD Candidate @ Valparaiso, Summer 1999, Northwestern School of Law of Lewis & Clark College, p ln</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The threat of...AND... species to extinction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Environmental collapse</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **causes extinction**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Diner, ’94 </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Maj. David, Instructor at the US Army JAG School, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Biologically diverse ecosystems... AND... to the abyss.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Debt Ceiling</span>=== 
**Congress will compromise over the debt limit. Their leverage statements are hallow threats**
**AP 1/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Associated Press, Times Union, “Close Fight on Debt Ceiling”, 1-11-13 [[http://www.timesunion.com/news/article/Close-fight-on-debt-ceiling-4184657.php#page-2|http://www.timesunion.com/news/article/Close-fight-on-debt-ceiling-4184657.php#page-2]]) MaxL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">House Speaker John... AND... felt by republicans.</span>

**Transportation infrastructure is politically controversial because it gets caught up in fiscal debates over spending-Prefer our evidence-assumes recent changes __to the process__**
**Hurst, 12** [Nathan, CQ Roll Call Staff, “Lack of Incentives Forces Lobbyists to Change Tack,”http://www.rollcall.com/features/Outlook_June/outlook/-215179-1.html, ALB]
When Congress last... AND... for fiscal austerity.

**Obama’s political capital is key to making the GOP raise the debt ceiling – he will pin the blame**
**Tomasky 1/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Tomasky- correspondent and editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, The Daily Beast, “Obama Can Win the Debt Ceiling Fight”, 1-5-13, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/01/05/obama-can-win-the-debt-ceiling-fight.html]]) MaxL</span>
But to pull... AND... Washington conventional wisdom.

**Going over the debt ceiling causes economic collapse**
**Masters 13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan Masters, Senior editor, reporter and CFR author, “Renewing America: U.S. Debt Ceiling: Costs and Consequences,” January 2, 2013, http://www.cfr.org/international-finance/us-debt-ceiling-costs-consequences/p24751)/g</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What are the implications... AND... on the economy."</span>

**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9 –**Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span>]
Conversly, global policymakers... AND... a big bang.

====2NC Agenda Module==== 
**The plan backlash alone allows the fiscal debate to become so all-consuming that it wrecks Obama’s second term agenda – this is a status quo cp that solves the aff and a laundry list of impacts**
**MacAskill and McGreal 1/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ewen MacAskil and Chris McGreal (writers for the Irish Times) January 3, 2013 “Battles on cuts yet to come after fiscal cliff deal” Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the end... AND... Mr. Obama said.</span>

**Causes Obama to back off of immigration form**
**Bohan 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Caren Bohan (writer for the Government Executive) November 8, 2012 “Savvy strategy, not mandate, key for Obama on fiscal cliff” http://www.govexec.com/oversight/2012/11/savvy-strategy-not-mandate-key-obama-fiscal-cliff/59364/?oref=dropdown</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are a lot... AND... as immigration reform.</span>

**CIR key to heg and solves Latin American relations and prevent massive instability**
**Gittelson 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">Gittelson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics, & Public Policy) </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Centrists Against the Ideologues: What Are the Falsehoods That Divide Americans on the Issue of Comprehensive Immigration Reform?” http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1400764</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">However, the above... AND... our southern border?</span>

**Independently causes regional war – escalates globally**
**Rochlin 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">James Francis </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">Rochlin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Political Science, University of British Columbia Okanagan) </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">1994</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Discovering the Americas” p. 130-1</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While there were... AND... the next chapter.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC Terror Scenario</span>==== 
**Debt restriction leads to terrorism**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Min 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Min, Associate Director for Financial Markets Policy for Center for American Progress, “The Big Freeze,” October 28, 2010, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/10/big_freeze.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The precarious budget... AND... dip in economic growth.</span>

**That leads to extinction**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ayson 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand – Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects”, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, 33(7), July)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Catalytic Response... AND... unwilling to provide.</span>

===Immigration=== 
**Immigration reform will pass now and it overcomes thumpers**
**Avlon, 2/13** [John, The Daily Beast, “Obama’s 2013 State of he Union and the Immigration Reform Movement,” [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/02/13/obama-s-2013-state-of-the-union-and-the-immigration-reform-moment.html]], ALB]
President Obama is... AND... crossings are down.

**Transportation infrastructure is politically controversial because it gets caught up in fiscal debates over spending-Prefer our evidence-assumes recent changes __to the process__**
**Hurst, 12** [Nathan, CQ Roll Call Staff, “Lack of Incentives Forces Lobbyists to Change Tack,”http://www.rollcall.com/features/Outlook_June/outlook/-215179-1.html, ALB]
When Congress last... AND... for fiscal austerity.

**Political capital is key-Obama HAS to be involved**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">**Chertoss, 2/14**-former secretary of homeland security in the George W. Bush administration and chairman and co-founder of the Chertoff Group, a global security advisory firm [Michael, “Obama’s immigration agenda,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The balanced reform... AND... model for Obama.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">1NC/2NC Biotech</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Foreign workers are critical to biotechnology innovations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sevier, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">director, workforce development and operation, Cal State University System Biotechnology Porgram, & Dahms, executive director, CSUPERB and chair of the Council of Biotechnology Center/BIO Workforce Committee, San Diego,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (E. Dale, A. Stephen,http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v20/n9/full/nbt0902-955.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Through a company... AND... industry to date</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Biotech key to prevent extinction-Volcanoes, Asteroids, and Warming Prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Trewavas, 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> – Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Anthony, “GM Is the Best Option We Have,” 6/5/2000, www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">In 535A.D... AND... it is be "prepared."</span>

====1NC/2NC Econ==== 
**Immigration reform is the __biggest internal link__ to the economy**
**Klein, 1/31** [Ezra, “Worried about the economy? Then pass immigration reform,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/31/worried-about-the-economy-then-pass-immigration-reform/]], ALB]
Washington tends to... AND... we might not.

**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9 –**Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span>]
Conversly, global policymakers... AND... a big bang.

====1NC/2NC Heg==== 
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Key to hegemony – both hard and soft power </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Nye 12/10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">/12 (Joseph S. Nye, a former US assistant secretary of defense and chairman of the US National Intelligence Council, is University Professor at Harvard University, [[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/obama-needs-immigration-reform-to-maintain-america-s-strength-by-joseph-s--nye]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">The United States... AND... strength of the US.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Barnett 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Events in Libya... AND... Century now unfolding.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 110%;">CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 110%;">States</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Text: The fifty states should [insert plan mandates].</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Only the states solve – the plan and permutation are ineffective and take too long</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Holler, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Communications Director for Heritage Action for America (Dan, 04/04, “Thinking Outside the Beltway,” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/04/paying-for-it.php#2190872)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When it comes to... AND... where to look.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">The counterplan is key to spur broader federalism</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">McGuigan 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Editor of the Free Congress Family, Law & Democracy Report and the author of The Politics of Direct Democracy (Patrick B., 07/29, “CapitolBeakOK: Transportation Federalism -- and Flexibility -- Proposed in New Bill from Coburn, Lankford,” http://lankford.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=756&Itemid=100023)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">In his statement... AND... across the nation.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Delegation</span>=== 
**Text: Congress should delegate the authority to [do the plan] to [agency]. The [agency] should pursue and enact the congressional delegation.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Counterplan solves the aff and doesn’t link to politics.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Epstein and O’Hallaron 99 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Epstein- Department of Political Science and Stanford Graduate School of Business, Columbia and Stanford University, and Sharyn O’Hallaron- Department of Political Science and the School of International and Public Affairs and Hoover Institution, Columbia and Stanford University, January 1999 (“The Nondelegation Doctrine and the Separation of Powers” – Cardozo Law Review) p. lexis </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our institutional analysis... AND... mode of policymaking.</span>

**Counterplan key to maintain separation of powers**
**Bryner, ’87**[Gary, Ph. D in Govt, Poli Sci @ BYU, “Bureaucratic Discretion: Law and Policy in Federal Regulatory Agencies,” p.5-6]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bureaucratic discretion is... AND... unpopular agency actions.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Firewall</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should establish firewalls on the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, mandating that it only be utilized for port maintenance and dredging. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Firewalls result in funding for port dredging without increasing spending </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Weakley, 8</span>** <span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia;">(1AC Author)</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">) // EK</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10pt;">The Harbor Maintenance Tax... AND... for deficit reduction.</span>

==K== 
===<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Cap</span>=== 

**Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported**

**Giddens and Held 82** (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)//RSW//
//Policies which pursue... AND... capitalist class itself.//

//**Capitalism results in neo-imperialist wars, the destruction of the environment and the subjugation and genocide of entire sections of the population**//
//**Everest 12** (Larry; correspondent for Revolution newspaper; 5/24/12; “WAR AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM: “Money for Jobs Not for War”: American Chauvinism and Reformist Illusions” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=31024)//RSW
"Money for jobs... AND... around the world.

**Alternative text: Reject the affirmative as a means of refusing complicity with capitalism.**

**Rejecting capitalism is key to opening up new alternatives. Only complete refusal, not piecemeal reform, can prevent otherwise inevitable slavery and extinction.**
**Herod, 04** (James, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm, Getting Free, 4th Edition
A sketch of an association of democratic, autonomous neighborhoods and how to create it, Fourth Edition, January 2004
It is time to... AND... even to extinction.

===Security=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Security speech acts define difference as threatening otherness, to secure state identity, which causes a self-fulfilling prophecy based on false regimes of truth.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Jæger</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> (Øyvind @ Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute. //Peace and Conflict Studies// 7.2 “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States” shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf”, MT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Security is a field... AND... every possible means.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Enmity motivated by security will cause extinction, the threats they name aren’t real but are invented by leaders manipulating us. </span>**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mack</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">90</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988. </span><span style="color: #000099; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, MT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The threat of... AND... our educational system.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our alternative is to reject the security fetishism of the 1AC, their flawed methodology and discourse to eschew the logic of security.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Breaking out of our obsession with security allows alternative relationships to the future - their predictions are ideologically loaded and suspect.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>
The only way... AND... return the gift.