===[[toc]]=== 
=Affirmative= 
==**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bering Straight Version 1</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 16px;">PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase capital investment to connect the Bering Strait Tunnel to the US. </span>**=== 
===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Russia is waiting on US to commit to Bering Strait tunnel and support infrastructure.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">MOSCOW NEWS 2012</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a barrel for a year… …If so, Washington's reset with Moscow could be welded in steel.</span>
===Advantage 1 –Relations=== 

US-Russian relations are deteriorating—the plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict.
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">KIRACOFE 6/24/12</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Clifford A. Kiracofe, //teaches political science at Washington and Lee University and history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government,// June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In the interest of world peace and development… …Obstacles to US-Russia relations must be overcome and show marked improvement whatever the outcome of the US elections in November. </span>

US-Russia cooperation is the best way to address nuclear terrorism
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Ryan 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Brigadier General Kevin Ryan, U.S.A (ret.) is Executive Director for Research at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. A career military officer, he has extensive service in air and missile defense, intelligence, and political-military policy areas. He served as Senior Regional Director for Slavic States in the Office of Secretary of Defense and as Defense Attaché to Russia. He also served as Chief of Staff for the Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command, “Preventing the Unthinkable,” Spring/Summer 2011, [[http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2011/20/ryan.php]]) Gangeezy</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">A second opportunity for the United States and Russia to cooperate in preventing a nuclear attack also exists… …is in synch and the countries seem on the same track as far as the nuclear terrorism threat goes. In that sense cooperation in this arena is much further along than cooperation on missile defense.</span>

Terrorism will escalate into extinction
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Dennis **Morgan 2009** South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries… …much of human civilization while condemning a mutant human remnant, if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter. </span>

Russian relations are key to solve every impact-alternative is crisis escalation and war
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Commission on US Policy Toward Russia 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">(US Senate, “THE RIGHT DIRECTION FOR U.S. POLICY TOWARD RUSSIA,” March) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Securing America’s vital national interests in the complex, interconnected, and… …new and cooperative relationship with Russia can contribute to each of these objectives and many others. Failure could impose significant costs.</span>

Unfortunately, American perceptions of Russia vacillate between extremes of cultural relativism and economic universalism. Current attitudes towards Russian technological projects stems from an unresolved mix of contempt and fascination
<span style="font-size: 11px;">ENGERMAN 2003 (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">7-11)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">American ideas about Russia's predominantly peasant population also built on indigenous Russian ones.. …Within most chapters, biographical sections highlight the ubiquity of these beliefs, even among experts with discordant political views and divergent personal experiences.</span>
===Advantage 2: Climate=== 
Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability, pollution and warming
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">ALEKSNADROV et al 1992</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Gregory N. Aleksnadrov, Leningrad Tech. Univ. Afzal Khan, Alaska Energy Authority Moe Aslam, Municipal Light and Power Peter Meisen, GENI Raghbir S. Basi, Alaska Pacific Univ. Brent Petrie, Alaska Energy Authority Lev S. Belyaev, Siberian Energy Institute Robert Retherford, P.E. Consultant Bob Bulmer, Alaska Dept. of Commerce Nikolai Voropai, Siberian Energy Institute Vladilen Fotin, Electrotechnical Institute Michael Wolfe, Int'l Energy Systems Consultant Vladimir Gatanov, HVDC Power Transmission Research Inst. Norio Yamamoto, Global Infrastructure Fund Japan (Attended 1/15 only) Dora Gropp, Chugach Electric Assoc. Victor Yershevich, Energoset Project “The Potential of an Electrical Interconnection Between Russia and North America” Held in Anchorage, Alaska, USA January 15-17, 1992, http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/newsletters/1992/the-potential-of-an-electrical-interconnection-between-russia-and-north-america.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Recent advances in extra high-voltage (EHV) AC and DC technology have extended the transmission limits thousands of kilometers over the past few decades… …More efficient use of the remaining plans could reduce emissions of pollutants that cause global warming.</span>

Global Warming Causes Extinction
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Hansen 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">, 5/9, James, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html]], “Game Over for the Climate” an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, 7/3, NIlango</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">GLOBAL warming isn’t a prediction. It is happening. That is why I was so troubled to read a recent [[http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2012/04/i-have-the-utmost-respect-for.html|interview with President Obama]] in Rolling Stone… …The cost of acting goes far higher the longer we wait — we can’t wait any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.</span>

US air quality is improving now but pollution is on the brink
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 17px;">Mitka 2012</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Mike Mitka, April 25, 2012, “US Air Quality Improves, But Polluted Air Still Threatens Millions,” JAMA, http://newsatjama.jama.com/2012/04/25/us-air-quality-improves-but-polluted-air-still-threatens-millions/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Air quality has improved significantly since 2001, the association found. Compared with 2001 levels, in 2010… …More than 5.7 million live in 1 of the 6 counties where all 3—ozone and short-term and year-round levels of particle pollution—are at unsafe levels</span>

Pollution Causes Extinction
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Driesen 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (David Driesen, Associate Professor at Syracuse University Law, 10 Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming the ecosystem upon which all life depends and harming the health of both future and present generations… …Since air pollution damages both human health and the environment, air quality implicates both of these concerns.</span>

Key to US and Russian energy economies – allows for a hydroelectric “power bridge”
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Razbegin 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">- deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf>//CS</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The projected Bering Strait rail crossing will knit together the entire rail networks of Eurasia and NorthAmerica… …In the future, the energy networks of China and Japan can be hooked into the Russia-U.S.A. “power bridge.”</span>
===Advantage 3: SciFi=== 
The Bering Strait tunnel is a unique act of imagination which recalls inspiring science fiction of the past—it’s a symbol of hope for global cooperation
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">MORRISON 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Richard, “A train trip from Moscow to New York?; The proposed construction of a tunnel linking the rail networks of Russia and North America is a brave new world indeed,” The Times, August 26, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Not since Yuri Gagarin orbited the Earth 50 years ago have the Russians grabbed so many headlines for their technological daring… …If the Bering Strait tunnel does open in 2045, I'll buy myself a train ticket to New York as a 90th birthday treat.</span>

Science fiction is an exploration of what changes are possible and the extent of human freedom
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">De Cock 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Christian is a professor in the School of Business and Economics at Swansea University, specializing in organizational behavior, change management, creative problem solving, and uncomfortable last names, “Jumpstarting the future with Fredric Jameson Reflections on capitalism, science fiction and Utopia” Journal of Organizational Change Management) BW </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Bullshit. You need to read more science ﬁction. Nobody who reads SF comes out with this crap about the end of history… …, but rather one that “goes all the way through that contradictory content and emerges on the other side. It is precisely this possibility which the semiotic square seems to promise”.</span>
===Solvency=== 
Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Russia is all set to complete the extension of a rail network to the tip of Siberia by 2030… ...for the rail link to be complete, it would also require US engineers to create train lines in Alaska, linking it with cities in Canada and onwards.</span>

Shipping will rapidly pay for itself
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Once an intercontinental rail link connects the vast and rapidly growing Chinese economy directly with those of North America, the enormous economic benefits on both sides of the Bering Strait should rapidly increase traffic volumes well past the break-even point for a commercial venture… …The commercial value of building the Bering Strait Tunnel connection as the keystone link in an integrated worldwide railway network should prove itself very rapidly</span>

If US does its part in US territory, Russia would do the rest
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">MSNBC 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> <”Report: Tunnel linking US to Russia gains support” August 20th, 2012. http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/44212283/ns/today-today_news/t/report-tunnel-linking-us-russia-gains-support/#.T-ivkiuXQmY>//CS</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">A train could someday make a journey from New York City to London if a plan to build a 65-mile tunnel between North America and Asia comes to pass… …Nicholas II, approved similar tunnel plans twice, but World War I and then the Russian revolution intervened. Cheaper, faster than container ships</span>

The Strait is a key transit link and tunneling solves weather concerns
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In reality, of course, the world is not flat and two-dimensional like the wall map; it is… …narrowest stretch via the planned system tunnels whose constant ambient temperature would be about 6 degrees Celsius, a safe and comfortable environment for tunneling crews.</span>

==Bering Strait Version 2== 
===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia is waiting on US to commit to Bering Strait tunnel and support infrastructure.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MOSCOW NEWS 2012</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a barrel for a year...</span>__<span style="line-height: 1.5;">could be **welded in steel**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its capital investment to connect the Bering Strait Tunnel to the U.S.</span>**=== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Solvency**</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)</span>
__Russia is **all set** to complete the extension of a rail netwo____<span style="line-height: 1.5;">rk...</span>____<span style="line-height: 1.5;">engineers to create train lines in Alaska, linking it with cities in Canada and onwards</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">Shipping will rapidly pay for itself</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
__Once an intercontinental rail link connects the vast and rapidly growing Chinese economy directly with those of North America...__**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__the Bering Strait Tunnel connection as the keystone link in an integrated worldwide railway network should prove itself very rapidly__</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">If US does its part in US territory, Russia would do the rest</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MSNBC 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <”Report: Tunnel linking US to Russia gains support” August 20th, 2012. http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/44212283/ns/today-today_news/t/report-tunnel-linking-us-russia-gains-support/#.T-ivkiuXQmY>//CS//</span>
//__A train could someday make a journey from New York City to London if a plan to build a 65-mile tunnel between...__<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">but World War I and then the Russian revolution intervened. Cheaper, faster than container ships</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">The Strait is a key transit link and tunneling solves weather concerns</span>//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reality, of course, </span>__the world is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not flat and two-dimensional like the wall map...</span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__a safe and comfortable environment for tunneling crews__.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US and Russia are key—other countries, especially China will get on board</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)</span>//
//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A decision on building a tunnel under the Bering Strait to connect the railway infrastructures...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;">as well</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, and so </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;">multilateral cooperation is **inevitable**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">," he said.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The US won’t act now—commitment to implement would spur private investment</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MOSCOW NEWS 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Digging to America,” Sep 5, lexis)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Over the years, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the idea of a railroad connecting three continents has captured the imaginations...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;">the first step toward implementing the project</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tunnel under Bering Strait feasible</span>**//
//**Razbegin 7** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf></span>//CS
**__The need to create a combined multimodal transport corridor...__****<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__this will mean the development of these sparsely inhabited regions of the country.”__</span>**
===Advantage 1: Climate=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability, pollution and warming</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ALEKSNADROV et al 1992</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregory N. Aleksnadrov, Leningrad Tech. Univ. Afzal Khan, Alaska Energy Authority Moe Aslam, Municipal Light and Power Peter Meisen, GENI Raghbir S. Basi, Alaska Pacific Univ. Brent Petrie, Alaska Energy Authority Lev S. Belyaev, Siberian Energy Institute Robert Retherford, P.E. Consultant Bob Bulmer, Alaska Dept. of Commerce Nikolai Voropai, Siberian Energy Institute Vladilen Fotin, Electrotechnical Institute Michael Wolfe, Int'l Energy Systems Consultant Vladimir Gatanov, HVDC Power Transmission Research Inst. Norio Yamamoto, Global Infrastructure Fund Japan (Attended 1/15 only) Dora Gropp, Chugach Electric Assoc. Victor Yershevich, Energoset Project “The Potential of an Electrical Interconnection Between Russia and North America” Held in Anchorage, Alaska, USA January 15-17, 1992, http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/newsletters/1992/the-potential-of-an-electrical-interconnection-between-russia-and-north-america.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent advances in extra high-voltage (EHV) AC and DC technology have extended the transmission limits thousands...</span>__<span style="line-height: 1.5;">efficient use of the remaining plans could reduce emissions of pollutants that cause global warming</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Warming Causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 5/9, James, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html]]</span>, “Game Over for the Climate” an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, 7/3, NIlango</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">GLOBAL warming isn’t a prediction...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">acting goes far higher the longer we wait — we can’t wait any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US air quality is improving now but pollution is on the brink</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitka 2012</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Mike Mitka, April 25, 2012, “US Air Quality Improves, But Polluted Air Still Threatens Millions,” JAMA, http://newsatjama.jama.com/2012/04/25/us-air-quality-improves-but-polluted-air-still-threatens-millions/)</span>
Air quality has improved significantly since 2001<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the association found. Compared with 2001 levels...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">ozone and short-term and year-round levels of particle pollution—are at unsafe levels</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollution Causes Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Driesen 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Driesen, Associate Professor at Syracuse University Law, 10 Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>
Air pollution can make life //unsustainable// by harming the ecosystem...<span style="line-height: 1.5;">air pollution damages both human health and the environment</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">, air quality implicates both of these concerns.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to US and Russian energy economies – allows for a hydroelectric “power bridge”</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Razbegin 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf>//CS</span>
__The projected Bering Strait rail crossing will knit together the entire...____<span style="line-height: 1.5;">the energy networks of China and Japan can be hooked into the Russia-U.S.A. “power bridge.”</span>__

===Advantage 2 –Relations=== 
====Scenario 1==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Now is the key time to reinvigorate Russia-U.S. Relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright & Ivanov</span>**—Fmr. US Sec. of State & Fmr. Russian Foreign Minister—**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">December 30, 2012</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Madeleine & Igor, NYT, A New Agenda for U.S.-Russia Cooperation (Amended), </span>**[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/31/opinion/31iht-edalbright31.html?_r=0|**http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/31/opinion/31iht-edalbright31.html?_r=0**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Accessed 1-8-13]</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last couple of weeks, </span>**__we have been witnessing a rapid deterioration__**
**__historic mission to start a new chapter in bilateral relations between Russia and the United States.__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">KIRACOFE 6/24/12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Clifford A. Kiracofe, //teaches political science at Washington and Lee University and history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government,// June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]]</span>, DMintz]</span>
__In the interest of world peace and development, not to mention__
**__Obstacles to US-Russia relations must be overcome and show marked improvement__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> whatever the outcome of the US elections in November. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Russia cooperation is the best way to address nuclear terrorism</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ryan 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brigadier General Kevin Ryan, U.S.A (ret.) is Executive Director for Research at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. A career military officer, he has extensive service in air and missile defense, intelligence, and political-military policy areas. He served as Senior Regional Director for Slavic States in the Office of Secretary of Defense and as Defense Attaché to Russia. He also served as Chief of Staff for the Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command, “Preventing the Unthinkable,” Spring/Summer 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2011/20/ryan.php]]</span>) Gangeezy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second </span>__opportunity for the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__and Russia to cooperate in preventing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span>__nuclear attack__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span>__exists__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">same track as far as the nuclear terrorism threat goes. In that sense cooperation in this arena is much further along than cooperation on missile defense.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorism will escalate into extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis</span>**Morgan 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore points out what most</span>__terrorists__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">obviously</span>__already know about the nuclear tensions__
**__of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian relations are key to solve every impact-alternative is crisis escalation and war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commission on US Policy Toward Russia 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(US Senate, “THE RIGHT DIRECTION FOR U.S. POLICY TOWARD RUSSIA,” March) </span>
**__Securing America’s vital national interests__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the complex</span>
**__could impose significant costs__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Scenario 2==== 
Russia otherization is pervasive and morally repulsive and the same condescending discourses are spread to others
**LIEVEN 2001** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html)</span>
__Ever since the Cold War ended, Western officials and commentators have been telling the Russians__
__, in which certain nations are classed as irrationally, irredeemably savage and wicked__

Otherization of Russia results in real hostility
**LIEVEN 2001** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html)</span>
__Russophobia today is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> therefore </span>__rooted__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not in ideological differences but </span>
__that is **seen to need enemies** will sooner or later **find them everywhere**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Otherization makes extinction inevitable—survival is only possible by our unique connection to others</span>==== 
**KEEN 1986**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sam, author, contributing editor of Psychology Today, Faces of the Enemy: Reflections of the Hostile Imagination: The Psychology of Enmity, p. 135-136)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two major problems that will have to be solved if we are to survive</span>
__will survive if we cannot get beyond hostility to kinship__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
==Bering Strait 3 (Heritage Hall)== 
===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia is waiting on US to commit to Bering Strait tunnel and support infrastructure.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MOSCOW NEWS 2012</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a barrel for a year now. Budgets are</span>
__reset with Moscow could be **welded in steel**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its capital investment by building its connecting portion of the Bering Strait Tunnel within U.S. territory.</span>**=== 
===Solvency=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)</span>
__Russia is **all set** to complete the extension of a rail network__ 
__also require US engineers to create train lines in Alaska, linking it with cities in Canada and onwards__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shipping will rapidly pay for itself</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
__Once an intercontinental rail link connects the vast and__ 
**__Bering Strait Tunnel connection as the keystone link in an integrated worldwide railway network should prove itself very rapidly__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If US does its part in US territory, Russia would do the rest</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MSNBC 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <”Report: Tunnel linking US to Russia gains support” August 20th, 2012. http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/44212283/ns/today-today_news/t/report-tunnel-linking-us-russia-gains-support/#.T-ivkiuXQmY>//CS</span>
__A train could someday make a journey from New York City__ 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cheaper, faster than container ships</span>

====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Strait is a key transit link and tunneling solves weather concerns</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reality, of course, </span>__the world is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not flat and two-dimensional like the wall map</span>
**__, a safe and comfortable environment for tunneling crews__.**

===Advantage 1 –Relations=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Now is the key time to reinvigorate Russia-U.S. Relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright & Ivanov</span>**—Fmr. US Sec. of State & Fmr. Russian Foreign Minister—**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">December 30, 2012</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Madeleine & Igor, NYT, A New Agenda for U.S.-Russia Cooperation (Amended), </span>**[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/31/opinion/31iht-edalbright31.html?_r=0|**http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/31/opinion/31iht-edalbright31.html?_r=0**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Accessed 1-8-13]</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last couple of weeks, </span>**__we have been witnessing a rapid deterioration__**
**__in bilateral relations between Russia and the United States.__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Russian relations are deteriorating—the plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">KIRACOFE </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6/24/</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Clifford A. Kiracofe,  //teaches political science at Washington and Lee University and history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government,// June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]]</span>, DMintz]</span>
__In the interest of world peace and development, not to mention the US national interest__
**__to US-Russia relations must be overcome and show marked improvement__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> whatever the outcome of the US elections in November. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Russia cooperation is the best way to address nuclear terrorism</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ryan 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brigadier General Kevin Ryan, U.S.A (ret.) is Executive Director for Research at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. A career military officer, he has extensive service in air and missile defense, intelligence, and political-military policy areas. He served as Senior Regional Director for Slavic States in the Office of Secretary of Defense and as Defense Attaché to Russia. He also served as Chief of Staff for the Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command, “Preventing the Unthinkable,” Spring/Summer 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2011/20/ryan.php]]</span>) Gangeezy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second </span>__opportunity for the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__and Russia to cooperate in preventing__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as far as the nuclear terrorism threat goes. In that sense cooperation in this arena is much further along than cooperation on missile defense.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorism will escalate into extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis</span>**Morgan 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore points out what most</span>__terrorists__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">obviously</span>__already know about the nuclear tensions__
**__to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.__** 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian relations are key to solve every impact-alternative is crisis escalation and war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commission on US Policy Toward Russia 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(US Senate, “THE RIGHT DIRECTION FOR U.S. POLICY TOWARD RUSSIA,” March) </span>
**__Securing America’s vital national interests__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the complex, interconnected, and interdependent </span>
**__Failure could impose significant costs__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unfortunately, American perceptions of Russia vacillate between extremes of cultural relativism and economic universalism. Current attitudes towards Russian technological projects stems from an unresolved mix of contempt and fascination </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ENGERMAN 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7-11)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American ideas about Russia's predominantly peasant population also built on indigenous Russian</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">most chapters, biographical sections highlight the ubiquity of these beliefs, even among experts with discordant political views and divergent personal experiences.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Otherization makes extinction inevitable—survival is only possible by our unique connection to others</span>**
**KEEN 1986**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sam, author, contributing editor of Psychology Today, Faces of the Enemy: Reflections of the Hostile Imagination: The Psychology of Enmity, p. 135-136)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two major problems that will have to be solved if we are to survive</span>
__survive if we cannot get beyond hostility to kinship__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===Advantage 2: Climate=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability, pollution and warming</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ALEKSNADROV et al 1992</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregory N. Aleksnadrov, Leningrad Tech. Univ. Afzal Khan, Alaska Energy Authority Moe Aslam, Municipal Light and Power Peter Meisen, GENI Raghbir S. Basi, Alaska Pacific Univ. Brent Petrie, Alaska Energy Authority Lev S. Belyaev, Siberian Energy Institute Robert Retherford, P.E. Consultant Bob Bulmer, Alaska Dept. of Commerce Nikolai Voropai, Siberian Energy Institute Vladilen Fotin, Electrotechnical Institute Michael Wolfe, Int'l Energy Systems Consultant Vladimir Gatanov, HVDC Power Transmission Research Inst. Norio Yamamoto, Global Infrastructure Fund Japan (Attended 1/15 only) Dora Gropp, Chugach Electric Assoc. Victor Yershevich, Energoset Project “The Potential of an Electrical Interconnection Between Russia and North America” Held in Anchorage, Alaska, USA January 15-17, 1992, http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/newsletters/1992/the-potential-of-an-electrical-interconnection-between-russia-and-north-america.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent advances in extra high-voltage (EHV) AC and DC technology have extended the transmission limits thousands </span>
__efficient use of the remaining plans could reduce emissions of pollutants that cause global warming__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Warming Causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 5/9, James, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html]]</span>, “Game Over for the Climate” an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, 7/3, NIlango</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">GLOBAL warming isn’t a prediction</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of acting goes far higher the longer we wait — we can’t wait any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US air quality is improving now but pollution is on the brink</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitka 2012</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Mike Mitka, April 25, 2012, “US Air Quality Improves, But Polluted Air Still Threatens Millions,” JAMA, http://newsatjama.jama.com/2012/04/25/us-air-quality-improves-but-polluted-air-still-threatens-millions/)</span>
Air quality has improved significantly since 2001<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the association</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 of the 6 counties where all 3—ozone and short-term and year-round levels of particle pollution—are at unsafe levels</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollution Causes Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Driesen 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Driesen, Associate Professor at Syracuse University Law, 10 Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>
Air pollution can make life //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">unsustainable</span>// by harming the ecosystem upon 
environment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, air quality implicates both of these concerns.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to US and Russian energy economies – allows for a hydroelectric “power bridge”</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Razbegin 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf>//CS</span>
__The projected Bering Strait rail crossing will knit__ 
__networks of China and Japan can be hooked into the Russia-U.S.A. “power bridge.”__

===Advantage 3: SciFi=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Bering Strait tunnel is a unique act of imagination which recalls inspiring science fiction of the past—it’s a symbol of hope for global cooperation</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MORRISON 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, “A train trip from Moscow to New York?; The proposed construction of a tunnel linking the rail networks of Russia and North America is a brave new world indeed,” The Times, August 26, lexis)</span>
__Not since Yuri Gagarin orbited the Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 50 years ago </span>__have the Russians grabbed__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tunnel does open in 2045, I'll buy myself a train ticket to New York as a 90th birthday treat.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science fiction is an exploration of what changes are possible and the extent of humyn (sic) freedom</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">De Cock 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian is a professor in the School of Business and Economics at Swansea University, specializing in organizational behavior, change management, creative problem solving, and uncomfortable last names, “Jumpstarting the future with Fredric Jameson Reflections on capitalism, science fiction and Utopia” Journal of Organizational Change Management) BW </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bullshit. You need to read more science</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">precisely this possibility which the semiotic square seems to promise”.</span>

==Inland Water Ways== 
===Plan:=== 

====PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase capital investment in inland waterway infrastructure in the United States.==== 

===Advantage: Soybeanz=== 

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Inadequate funding system has left inland waterways in disrepair --- it’s only matter a of time before a major failure</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Boselovic, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (3/18/2012, Len, “Locked and Dammed: The region's 23 locks and dams are on the brink of failure,” [[http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/environment/locked-and-dammed-the-regions-23-locks-and-dams-are-on-the-brink-of-failure-517289/?print=1]], JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">While Pittsburgh has some of the oldest locks and dams in the nation,.. …"We just need to get back to this mentality of being an investing nation. Great nations invest in themselves," he said.</span>


89% of soybeans travel through inland waterways—lock closure would cause spikes in price

<span style="font-size: 17px;">USB 12</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Crumbling Inland Waterway System Puts Farmers, Consumers at Risk, Jan 24, 2012 Soybean checkoff study finds that United States could lose global competitiveness, http://www.unitedsoybean.org/media-center/releases/crumbling-inland-waterway-system-puts-farmers-consumers-at-risk/</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Just on the Ohio River alone, the accumulated shipping delays at broken-down locks has more than tripled since 2000, rising from 25,000 hours to 80,000 annually… …As stipulated in the Soybean Promotion, Research and Consumer Information Act, USDA’s Agricultural Marketing Service has oversight responsibilities for USB and the soybean checkoff.</span>

====Scenario 1: China==== 

US soybeans are key-to Chinese food security

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Bloomberg, 12 </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Alan Bjerga and Whitney McFerron - Feb 17, 2012, U.S. Exporters Make Record Single-Day Soybean Sale to China</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2012-02-17/china-soybean-import-tops-one-day-record-as-ties-with-u-s-growers-expand.html]], </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Soybean exporters in the U.S., the world’s top shipper, sold 2.9… …People also are eating more meat, increasing the need for the oilseed to make livestock feed.</span>



Soybeans are the only internal link to Chinese food insecurity

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Dr. Wong and Dr. Huang , March 12 </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">John Wong, Yanjie Huang, China's Food Security and Its Global Implications China: An International Journal, Volume 10, Number 1, March 2012, pp. 113-124 (Article), is Professorial Fellow at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore and Yanjie Huang (eaihuan@nus.edu.sg) is Research Assistant at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">China’s soybean market can be singled out as the only case where imports have substituted… …an over-reliance on imported soybeans does “violate” the principle of self-sufficiency and pose some challenges to food security.</span>


Collapse of food security would destabilize China

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">American Interest 4/29 </span>**

<span style="font-size: 13px;">April 29, 2012, Uh Oh: World Food Prices Spike As Soy Harvest Collapses, http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/04/29/uh-oh-world-food-prices-spike-as-soy-harvest-collapses/</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Among the things we watch here at Via Meadia are trends in world food prices… …A lot of people are going to be hurting, and some of them will be hungry... …2012 could be even more… interesting than we thought.</span>



Chinese instability will trigger world war iii.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">THE STRAITS TIMES</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, June 28, </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, p. online </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">But imagine a China disintegrating- on its own, without neo-conservative or Central Intelligence Agency prompting, much less outright military invasion because the economy (against all predictions) suddenly collapses. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">That’s why wise policy encourages Chinese stability, security and economic growth … … the very direction the White House now seems to prefer. </span>

====Scenario 2: Brazil==== 

Brazilian soy crop down in SQ

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Reuters June 5th</span> (UPDATE 2-Brazil gov't cuts soy estimate, raises corn view, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/05/grains-brazil-idUSL1E8H529F20120605, P. online)

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Brazil's government trimmed its 2011/12 soybean crop estimate on Tuesday after drought ravaged output in the world's second biggest producer this season… … Brazil harvested a record 75.3 million tonnes the year before</span>


Decreased Soy from the US would also increase Brazilian soy

<span style="font-size: 17px;">STRI in 8</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Smithsonian Tropial Research Institute - Thursday, 10 January 2008, [[http://enviro.org.au/enews-description.asp?id=852]], </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The drop-off in US soy has helped to drive a major increase in global soy prices… …Just about everyone there attributes this to rising soy and beef prices." </span>



Soybean farming threatens the Brazilian rainforests biodiversity

**Casson in 3**

Anne, August, World Wildlife Fund, Oil Palm, Soybeans and Critical Habitat loss: A report prepared for the WWF Forest Conversion Initiative, http://www.wwf.ch/images/progneut/upload/oilpalmsoybeanscriticalhabitatloss25August03.pdf

<span style="font-size: 11px;">In Brazil, soybean plantations have also rapidly expanded into critical habitats such as the Cerrado ecoregion… …. It is estimated that only 35% of the Cerrado remains in a relatively natural state (Kaimowitz & Smith 2001). </span>



Loss of biodiversity Leads to Extinction.

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Dinner in ‘94</span>

David Dinner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology. “The Army and the Endangered Speciies Act: Who’s Endangering Who?. Military Law Review 143. 1994



<span style="font-size: 11px;">To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew 74 could save [hu]mankind may be difficult for some… …. Like a mechanic removing, one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, 80 [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__Advantage 2: HEG__</span>=== 

The U.S. is still in the lead – still dominates economically and militarily

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kagan 12</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Robert Kagan, //Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University//, January 17, 2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Brookings Institute,[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/01/17-us-power-kagan]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, DMintz]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Less than a decade ago, most observers spoke not of America’s decline but of its enduring primacy. In 2002, the historian Paul Kennedy… …. It is possible to imagine a time when this might no longer be the case, but that moment has not yet arrived.</span>



Waterway decline threatens US hegemony—key to world market competition

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Martin, 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> Cornel Martin, President and CEO, Waterways Council, "Inland Waterways Investment Is Critical to Economic Recovery - and it's Green” 2009 waterwayscouncil.org/Media%2520Center/articles/Page_%2520from_Cornel_OPED_Marex.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The New Year brings much uncertainty about the economy, the future of certain industries and businesses, the housing market, and a new administration’s plans… …America’s inland navigation system offers our country an opportunity to compete in the world market, but if we don’t make necessary investments now, our future as a world leader is in jeopardy.</span>



Maintaining growth differential is key to prevent a great power transition and maintain U.S. hegemony.

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Ashley J. </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, Spring </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, Senior Associate at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at the National Bureau of Asian Research, “Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Vol.4 No. 1, </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Precisely because the desire for dominance is likely to remain a permanent feature of US geopolitical ambitions… …, including the war on terrorism and managing threatening regional powers, and will ineluctably require — to return full circle — engaging the central tasks identified earlier as facing the new US administration.</span>


Solves middle east war

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brzezinski 12</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Zbigniew, US National Security Advisor to Jimmy Carter, Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, scholar at CSIS, Jan/Feb 2012, "8 Geopolitically Endangered Species," www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/8_geopolitically_endangered_species?page=0,7 SL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">8. ISRAEL and the GREATER MIDDLE EAST America's decline would set in motion tectonic shifts undermining the political stability of the entire Middle East… …a rising tide </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">of Islamic radicalism and extremism; a worldwide energy crisis; vulnerability of America's Persian Gulf allies.</span>


Middle Eastern war goes nuclear and draws in great powers
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Herbert I. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">London 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">, President Emeritus of Hudson Institute, “The Coming Crisis in the Middle East”, June 23, [[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7101&pubType=HI_Opeds]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The gathering storm in the Middle East is gaining momentum… …This is a description far more dire than any in the last century and, even if some believe my view is overly pessimistic, Arab and Jew, Persian and Egyptian, Muslim and Maronite tend to believe in its veracity. That is a truly bad sign.</span>

===ECON GROWTH=== 

The economy is recovering, but we’re not out of danger yet

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">HOMAN & CHADRA 5 – 17 – 12 Bloomberg Economics Reporters</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Timothy R. Homan and Shobhana Chandra, Confidence Sinks As U.S. Job Market Progress Stalls: Economy, </span>[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/jobless-claims-in-u-s-were-unchanged-at-370-000-last-week.html|__http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/jobless-claims-in-u-s-were-unchanged-at-370-000-last-week.html__]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Consumer confidence fell last week to the lowest level in almost four months and more people than forecast filed claims for unemployment… …Their impasse raises the prospect of an election-year showdown on the federal debt. </span>



New infrastructure investment is crucial - modern U.S. waterways are key to economic competitiveness – most efficient method of commerce*

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Cornell </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Martin</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, 2-21-</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, is president and CEO of the Waterways Council Inc., Journal of Commerce, Vol. 12 Issue 8, “WATERWAYS DESERVE FUNDS,” p. 35, Ebsco Host</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11px;">THE RELEASE OF the president's fiscal 2012 budget on Valentine's Day and its historically low funding level for the U.S... …The beneficiaries of the water-ways system are many because rivers provide stable pools of water for industrial, municipal and agri-cultural use, generate hydropower, provide flood protection, create rec-reational opportunities, and enhance.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 17px;">Agricultural competitiveness key to strong economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 17px;">NCbiofuels 12</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">(organization which has as its goal the awareness of biofuel and agricultural industries) "Agriculture - The Cornerstone Of Our Old (And New) Economy." //Agriculture - The Cornerstone Of Our Old (And New) Economy//. NCbiofuels, 27 June 2012. Web. 28 June 2012. <http://ncbiofuels.net/biofuels-nc-blog/643-agriculture-the-cornerstone-of-our-old-and-new-economy.html>.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11px;">America may not currently be as aware of the economic value of agriculture as we should be, but America is changing… … Developing the biofuels industry will create massive demand for agricultural products (specifically biomass for biofuel production) and that demand will create potentially thousands of new rural jobs. </span>**



<span style="font-size: 17px;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions</span>

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Royal 10 –</span> **Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214**

**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict… …DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing /that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.. </span>**

**Economic collapse risks extinction.**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Austin 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? The Great Depression showed how social and global chaos followed hard on economic collapse… …. The result may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang. </span>

==Solvency== 

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Federal leadership key</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Jackson ‘7</span>**

USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM by Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The inland waterway system of the United States stands as a minimally exploited system that... …expanding container-onbarge opportunities to alleviate congestion and increase capacity of the freight transportation system at the national level..</span>


Funding k2 solve shutdowns and delays

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Mitchell 6/13</span>

[[http://blog.al.com/press-registerbusiness/2012/06/waterway_association_we_need_m.html]], Waterway Association: We need more money Published: Wednesday, June 13, 2012, By Ellen Mitchell, Press-Register

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Funding for the operation and maintenance of waterways is not getting the support needed to adequately improve the infrastructure… …through other U.S. waterways to move cargo from the Mississippi River to Mobile and further east.</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==Past 2NRs:== 
===Washburn Rural=== 
Security w/ Econ Turns
Managerialism
====<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">**Wichita East**</span>==== 
Priv CP w/ Elections Net Ben (Obama Good-GW)
Security
XO w/ Elections Net Ben (Obama Good-China Bashing)
===St. Marks=== 
Gender
Framework
Fiscal Cliff
===KCKCC=== 
Gender
Security
Methodology CP w/ Frame Work
===T-High=== 
Spending
Gender
===CFL Qualifier=== 
Fiscal Cliff
===NFL Qualifier=== 
Fiscal Cliff
===DCI=== 
Debt Ceiling
Gender
===State=== 
Debt Ceiling
Gender
T-Investment
Heg Turns