[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NOTE:</span>= 
If you have any questions or need more cites email me at flora5796@gmail.com

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>= 

==1AC Cites: Most Updated Version== 
====Plan Text:==== 
The United States federal government should implement a system of megaports.

====Advantage 1: Terrorism==== 

Gaps in security infrastructure make devastating attacks on ports imminent
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AAPA 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports”, The Maritime Executive, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among the materials........in our national defense.</span>


Nuclear Terrorism prompts global nuclear retaliation
Robert <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ayson</span>**__,__** 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>, Centre for Strategic Studies, Victoria University of Wellington (NZ), “After a Nuclear Terrorist Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, 33, DOI: 10.1080/1057610X.2010.483756

The most important and challenging.....force is a rare commodity

Empirics prove- nuclear retaliation will happen
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Corr 4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anders Corr- Social Scientist at US Army, Associate at Booz Allen Hamilton, Senior Scientist at ARES Corporation, Peer Reviewer at Journal of Conflict Resolution. Education: studied at Harvard University and Yale University. “Retaliation Against Nuclear Terror: A Negligence Doctire.” [[http://www.foreignpolicysociety.org/workingpapers/WP7--Corr.pdf]])</span>

If a smuggled <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">nuclear</span> explosive......offensive military retaliation.



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**A Terrorist Attack on a Port would be 100 times worse than a nuclear war**</span>

<span class="Heading4Char">Rugy</span>, November **2007** [Veronique de, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, specifically researching homeland security, “Is Port Security Funding Making us Safer?” http://web.mit.edu/cis/pdf/Audit_11_07_derugy.pdf, PWS]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two types.......from U.S. shores</span>

=====Scenario 1: LNG===== 

**<span class="Heading4Char">Port attacks will hit key LNG assets</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Parfomak and Frittelli, 2007** (Paul W. and John, Resources, Science, and Industry Division of the Congressional Research Service, “Maritime Security: Potential Terrorist Attacks and Protection Priorities”, Congressional Research Service, January 9,</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl33787.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Liquefied Natural Gas......the general population</span>



**<span class="Heading4Char">That triggers explosions fifty-five times the size of Hiroshima</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Lovins and Lovins, 2001</span>** (Amory, Co-founder of the Rocky Mountain Institute, Holder of Six Honorary Doctorates, Hunter, former CEO of the Rocky Mountain Institute, J.D. from Loyola University School of Law, Brittle Power, p. 87-88)</span>

LNG is less than half as dense...fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.




=====Scenario 2: CBW's===== 

Ports will be the target – Ships too hard to hit
Naval Studies Board 2004 (Committee for an Assessment of Naval Forces' Defense Capabilities Against Chemical and Biological Warfare Threats, National Research Council; Naval Forces’ Defense Capabilities Against Chemical and Biological Warfare Threats; http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11034&page=46)

Ships at sea.....this kind.

Navy’s Limited readiness for CBW greatly increases the risk and impact of an attack
Naval Studies Board 2004 (Committee for an Assessment of Naval Forces' Defense Capabilities Against Chemical and Biological Warfare Threats, National Research Council; Naval Forces’ Defense Capabilities Against Chemical and Biological Warfare Threats; http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11034&page=46)

The Navy appears...improve readiness.

Causes extinction – There’s an expert consensus
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kellman 8</span> [<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Barry, Director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law and author of //Bioviolence—Preventing Biological Terror and Crime//; “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat,” The Futurist, May-June 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">]</span>


What might bioviolence accomplish......bioviolence is simply untenable.

=====Scenario 3: EMP attack===== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Club K cargo containers will be used – detection is the only way to deter the usage</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Szaszdi 11 [Lajos, Ph.D from the Catholic University of America in World Politics, non staff member at the Heritage Foundation,[[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/22/the-club-k-a-deadly-%E2%80%9Cpandora%E2%80%99s-box%E2%80%9D-of-cruise-missiles/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">]</span>

Russia's military-industrial.......opened in anger against them.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An EMP attack would kill millions – Outweighs a nuclear attack</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gertz 05 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Bill Gertz is national security editor and a national security and investigative reporter for The Washington Times. He has participated in the National Security Studies Program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies and Syracuse University Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">US Seen Vulnerable to Space ‘Pulse’ Attack. Washington Times. </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">11/22/5.</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washtimes.com/national/20051121-103434-8775r.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>

The United States is highly....in our most populous city

====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 2: Trade</span>==== 


<span class="Heading4Char">US competitiveness on the decline – infrastructure is a key indicator</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hariani 9-5 (Ansuya, economic and investment writer at CNBC, "US Slips Down the Ranks of Global Competitiveness,” September 5, 2012, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48905756]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The United States....respectively.</span>


Seaport infrastructure is key to the economy- increases global competiveness.

<span class="Heading4Char">Bridges,</span><span class="date1">**10/26/11** [Jerry, </span>[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/189829-seaport-infrastructure-improvements-are-critical-to-economic-recovery]]<span class="date1">, “Seaport infrastructure improvements are critical to economic recovery,” Jerry Bridges is </span><span class="author">Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities,]</span>

For centuries....... competitiveness.


Offshore ports improves shipping expenses and efficiency

<span class="Heading4Char">Float</span> Inc, Sept 17, 20<span class="Heading4Char">02</span>, Implementing the Beyond the Horizon Strategy, (Corporation providing services that include research, design and development of marine oriented products and specializes in very large floating platforms)http://www.floatinc.org/BtHSep02.pdf

There are additional....changing role or mission.


=====Scenario 1: Econ===== 

2 Internal Links:

First exports:

Increased efficiency means for more exports and increased trade – 15, 000 jobs for ever billion in exports
**Nagle, GMU economics masters, 2012**
(Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation”, 5-7, http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf, DOA: 7-12-12)

For centuries....movement



Reliable ports is key to sustainable exports-that solves economic recovery
Calhoun<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Waterways Council Inc. chairman, 20</span>11 (Rick, “Dredging for Prosperity”, Marine Log, August, proquest)

Just like the nation....economic recovery.

Six mega ports are enough to solve, the pay for them.
[[mailto:wampler1@llnl.gov|Stephen Wampler]], JULY 2, 2010, (Staff Writer) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory News, Plan floated to ship cargo inspection offshore. https://newsline.llnl.gov/_rev02/articles/2010/jul/07.02.10-ports.php)

In their presentation......shortening the payback period.


Trade deficit wrecks the economy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weller et al., Center for American Progress senior fellow, 2011</span>
(Christian, “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, 2-9, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html]], DOA: 7-13-12)

The United States....economic growth


2nd: Port Attack

An attack on a port would cause an economic depression.
Hank <span class="Heading4Char">Glauser</span>, April 4, 20<span class="Heading4Char">11</span>, Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory [[https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">From the CBP.......in our ability to trade</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10, director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010</span>
(Jedediah, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215, ldg)

Less intuitive...those views

Only USFG can solve – Both Legally and is key to coordination
Dr. Michael J**. Hillyard**, (April 20**05**), President, Rockwell University, The Atlantis Garrison: A Comprehensive, Cost Effective Cargo and Port Security Strategy, [[http://www.ciaonet.org.mutex.gmu.edu/olj/si/si_4_4/si_4_4_him01.pdf]]

Establishing the offshore ports.......unified enterprise.


=====Scenario 2: Relations===== 

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">U.S. Strength in international trade is the vital internal link to free trade – the alternative is chaos </span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Panitchpakdi</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 4 (DG Supachai, Secretary General for the UN conference on Trade and Development, February 26, 2004, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?,” World Trade Organization,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

I can sum up....prosper any other way.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Free Trade is essential for ensuring international coalitions that increase relations and increase hegemony**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Denney and Gleason, 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven C. Denney is a master’s candidate at the Graduate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from Harding University. Brian D. Gleason is a master’s candidate at the Gradate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. “The Political Economy of Trade Policy: A Realist Perspective,” [[http://sinonk.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/the-political-economy-of-trade-policy-steven_c_denney-brian_d_gleason.pdf%20Accessed%207/1/12|http://sinonk.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/the-political-economy-of-trade-policy-steven_c_denney-brian_d_gleason.pdf Accessed 7/1/12]] BJM</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kirshner's critique....KORUS FTA.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Heg prevents extinction</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett 11</span>** (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>)

Events in Libya........pacific century now unfolding.

Relations & cooperation prevent extinction – economic collapse, prolif, disease, & terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wenzhong 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zhou, PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7, http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.html, accessed 7-3, JG)</span>

China's development needs.....international community


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Griffin High School</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Port Security-</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 1: Terrorism (Retaliation, CBW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2: Asymmetric Warfare (Heg, Econ)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 3: Wind (Warming)</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chattahoochee </span>High School== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Terrorism (Retaliation, CBW's)
Advantage 2: Trade (Relations, Econ)
Advantage 3: Wind (Warming)

==Alpharetta High School== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Terrorism (CBW's, EMP'S, Retaliation)
Advantage 2: Trade (Economy, Relations)
Advantage 3: Wind ( Warming)

==Carrollton High School== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Terrorism (LNG, CBW's, EMP's)
Advantage 2: Trade (Economy, Relations)
Advantage 3: Wind (Warming)

==Grady High School== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Terrorism (EMP's)
Advantage 2: Trade (Relations)
Advantage 3: Nuclear (Water Shortages, China)

==Jackson High School== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Trade (Econ, relations)
Advantage 2: Terrorism (LNG, CBW, EMP)

==Barkley Forum - Emory== 
Port Security-
Advantage 1: Trade (Econ, relations)
Advantage 2: Terrorism (LNG, CBW, EMP)
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative- Griffin HS]]Negative</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Griffin High School</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 2 vs. Calhoun MS (Next Gen- terrorism, aerospace, economy)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Elections Da (Obama Good)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Debt Da</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- 50 States Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- China Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- T infrastructure investment requires building or maintenance of physical assets</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs. Carrollton JM ( Hydrogen Gas Pumps- oil dependency, global warming)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- 50 States Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- China Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Elections Da (Obama Good)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Debt Da</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- T transportation infrastructure refers to specific supbsectors of transportation, distinct from water and energy</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chattahoochee High School</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs. Westminster PY (CCS- environmental leadership, warming)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-Copper DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-Wind Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-Elections (Obama Good)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- T pipelines are not transportation infrastructure</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4 vs. Alpharetta GR ( Next Gen- economy, heg)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- T infrastructure investment requires building or maintenance of physical assets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Security K</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-China Cp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-Copper DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-Elections (Obama Good)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 6 vs. John's Creek FD (Next Gen- warming, monitoring)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- T infrastructure investment requires building or maintenance of physical assets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Copper DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Security K</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Elections (Obama Good)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- China Cp</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alpharetta High School</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 2 vs. Johns Creek AT (Next Gen- warming, oil)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- Security K</span>
-China Cp
- Elections (Obama Good)
- <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">T infrastructure investment requires building or maintenance of physical assets</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4 vs. Johns Creek SS (Duck & Cover)</span>
- Policy Framework
- T categories
- States Cp
- Security K

==Carrollton High School== 

Round 2 vs. Alpharetta GR (Next Gen- Econ, heg)
- Sunsets Cp
- Sequestration DA
- Copper DA
- Security K
- T assets

Round 4 vs, Hooch AL (Port Security- Coast Guard, Attacks)
-Security K
- DOD Tradeoff DA
- Fiscal Cliff DA
- Sunsets Cp

==Grady High School== 
Round 1 vs. Roswell MR (Port Dredging - Trade, Navy)
- Hagel DA
- DOD Tradeoff DA
- China Cp

Round 4 vs. Pace LS (Title XI- Econ, Navy)
- T-vehicles
-China Cp
- Hagel DA

Round 5 vs. Woodward (Surface Transportation- heg, econ stim)
- China Cp
- DOD Tradeoff
- Hagel DA

==Jackson High School== 
Round 1 vs. Central ZM (Nextgen- heg, econ)
- China Cp
-DOD tradeoff
- Hagel DA

==Barkley Forum - Emory== 
Round 1 v. Katy Taylor KR (Anti Aesthetics)
- Framework
- 50 states cp
- China cp
- Ableism K

Round 4 vs. Cathedral Prep BD (HSR- oil, econ)
-Immigration Reform DA
-Trade-off DA
-China Cp

Round 5 vs. Pace CK (Evacuation plans)
- Immigration Reform DA
- China Cp
-States CP
- T categories
=Requested Cites:= 
==Copper DA- 1NC Shell== 

A. China’s reduced demand has stabilized the copper market. World stores are low leaving the market vulnerable to demand shocks.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lefeuvre 9/12 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Copper: No Longer A China Story? September 12, 2012, Evariste Lefeuvre is the Chief Economist of Natixis North America’sEconomic research department in New York. His primary mission is to promote Natixis’s economic research to clients in North America http://seekingalpha.com/author/evariste-lefeuvre)</span>


Chin'a copper supply........very low level.

B. Plan uses copper
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chemistryexplained.com April 09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://www.chemistryexplained.com/elements/C-K/Copper.html#ixzz27QopVw1t)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most important.....U.S. coins are made.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Japan and China dispute over copper in seabed off Senkaku islands; would only be made worse by increased copper demands</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Muncaster 6/9/12</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Technology writer at Freelance, Contributor at Canvas Magazine http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/09/06/rare_earth_deep_sea_china_japan/)</span>


**__Japan and China’s maritime.....__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Japan and Diaoyu in the People’s.</span>



D. That will lead to armed conflict and shooting wars
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayward 9/19/12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Hayward began his blogging career as a guest writer at Hot Air under the pen name "Doctor Zero," producing a collection of essays entitled "Doctor Zero: Year One." His work has also appeared at the Daily Caller, Death By 1000 Papercuts, and the New York Post. His writing has been cited at Tea Party gatherings across the country, and quoted on the air by commentators such as Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin. His journey from prolific evening commenter in blog forums, to full-time professional writer, took just under two years. http://www.humanevents.com/2012/09/19/meawhile-china-prepares-for-war-with-japan/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I’m sure this didn’t.....bankrupt American ally to take them back.</span>


E. War goes Nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 9/14</span>
(VIEW FROM ASIA SEPTEMBER 14, 2012, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">3:24 (AM http://rendezvous.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/14/rising-tension-and-stakes-in-japan-china-island-dispute/) </span>

Rising Tension........East China Sea.

==Debt Disad- 1NC Shell== 
A. Transportation infrastructure spending increases the debt
Staley 12 (<span style="color: #333333;">Samuel, PhD, “Highway construction as stimulus? Not so fast.” </span><span style="color: #3b5998; text-decoration: initial;">[[@http://reason.org/news/show/highway-construction-as-stimulus-no]]</span><span style="color: #333333;">)</span>

The model.....less expensive.

B. Every dollar of debt increases the chances of US-China trade war
Rumbelow 11 (Helen, staff writer, the Australian, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/pentagon-prepares-for-economic-warfare/story-e6frg6so-1226118380617)JFS]]</span>

<span style="color: blue;">Yet this was............West isn't winning</span>


C. That destroys the global economy and causes US-China war
Droke 10 (Clif, Editor – Momentum Strategies Report, “America and the Next Major War’, Green Faucet, 3-29, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314]]</span>)

It's evident......coming conflict.

D. US-Sino War results in extinction
**Cheong 2k** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Ching, , Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” 6/25, pg Lexis</span>)

The high intensity....destruction of civilization.

==Sunset Cp- 1NC Shell== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should [plan] as temporary-effect legislation mandating a review in five-years to determine the policy’s effectiveness. Based on the review, the policy can be re-authorized, altered, or terminated</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span>**

Counterplan is competitive—questions of policy timing are even more important than questions of content.
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gersen and Posner 2005 </span>(<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">Jacob and Eric, Assistant Professor of Law, The University of Chicago. Kirkland and Ellis Professor of Law, The University of Chicago, “Timing Rules and Legal Institutions,” Harvard Law Review, Vol. 121</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

Most fights about........warrant an independent inquiry.


Counterplan Solves—Sunset clauses are key for transportation policy
Surface Transportation Policy Partnership 2002 <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(STPP is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization funded by individual donations and a range of national and regional foundations including Agua Foundation, the Fannie Mae Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the Heinz Foundation, the Hewlett Foundation, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Joyce Foundation, the James Irvine Foundation, the Kirsch Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, the McKenna Foundation, the David & Lucille Packard Foundation, the William Penn Foundation, the Pittsburgh Foundation, the Prince Charitable Trust, the Rausch Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Surdna Foundation., </span><span style="background-color: white;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.transact.org/library/reports_html/measuring_up/exec_sum.asp]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>

Third-party monitoring........accountability assurances.














[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]