[[toc]]
=Valley - Affirmative= 
We begin with old Bull Lee. Like the old man we have no aspirations to the heights of political power...we aren’t the ass kissers putting up bridges and rail to appease our political task masters...we kiss ass for wholly different reasons...are at home in the feted darkness...if an act of politics must be done then ELECT ME COMMISSIONER OF SEWERS. Now from the mouth of the Bull:
William S. Burroughs in 1975 (Harpers Magazine. Available on-line: [[http://harpers.org/archive/1975/03/0022214]])
Both in this life or any previous incarnations I have been able to check out, I never wanted to be President. This innate decision was confirmed when I became literate and saw the President pawing babies and spouting bullshit. I attended Los Alamos Ranch School, where they later made the atom bomb, and bombs bursting in air over Hiroshima gave proof through the night that our flag was already there. Then came the Teapot Dome scandal under President Harding, and I remember the unspeakable Gaston Means, infamous private eye and go-between in that miasma of graft, walking into a hotel room full of bourbon-drinking, cigar-smoking lobbyists and fixers, with a laundry hamper. “Fill it up boys, and we talk business.” I do not mean to imply that my youthful. Idealism was repelled by this spectacle. I had by then learned to take a broad general view of things. My political ambitions were simply of a humbler and less conspicuous caliber. I hoped at one time to become commissioner of sewers for St. Louis County–$300 a month, with the possibility of getting one’s shitty paws deep into a slush fund–and to this end I attended a softball game where such sinecures were assigned to the deserving and the fortunate. Everybody I met said, “Now I’m old So-and-so, running for such and such, and anything you do for me I’ll appreciate.” My boyish dreams fanned by this heady atmosphere and three mint juleps, I saw myself already in possession of the coveted post, which called for a token appearance twice a week to sign a few letters at the Old Court House; while I’m there might as well put it on the sheriff for some marijuana he has confiscated, and he’d better play ball or I will route a sewer through his front yard. And then across the street to the Court House Café for a coffee with some other lazy bastards in the same line of business, and we wallow in corruption like contented alligators. I never wanted to be a front man like Harding or Nixon–taking the rap, shaking hands, and making speeches all day, family reunions once a year. Who in his right mind would want a job like that? As commissioner of sewers I would not be called upon to pet babies, make speeches, shake hands, have lunch with the queen; in fact, the fewer voters who knew of my existence, the better. Let kings and Presidents keep the limelight. I prefer a whiff of coal gas as the sewers rupture for miles around–I have made a deal on the piping which has bought me a $30,000 home, and there is talk in the press of sex cults and orgies carried out in the stink of what made them possible. Fluttering from the roof of my ranch-style house, over my mint and marijuana, Old Glory floats lazily in the tainted breeze. But there were sullen mutters of revolt from the peasantry: “Is this the American way of life?” I thought so, and I didn’t want it changed, sitting there in my garden, smoking the sheriff’s reefers, coal gas on the wind sweet in my nostrils as the smell of oil to an oil man or the smell of bullshit to a cattle baron. I sure did a sweet thing with those pipes, and I’m covered, too. What I got on the Governor wouldn’t look good on the front page, would it, now? And I have my special police to deal with vandalism and sabotage, all of them handsome youths, languid and vicious as reptiles, described in the press as no more than minions, lackeys, and bodyguards to His Majesty the Sultan of Sewers. The thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts. Then I met the gubernatorial candidate, and he looked at me as if trying to focus my image through a telescope and said, “Anything I do for you I’ll depreciate.” And I felt the dream slipping away from me, receding into the past, dim, jerky, far away–the discrete gold letters on a glass door: William S. Burroughs, Commissioner of Sanitation. Somehow I had not intersected. I was not one of them. Perhaps I was simply the wrong shape. Some of my classmates, plump, cynical, unathletic boys with narrow shoulders and broad hips, made the grade and went on to banner headlines concerning $200,000 of the taxpayers’ money and a nonexistent bridge or highway, I forget which. It was a long time ago. I have never aspired to political office since. The Sultan of Sewers lies buried in a distant 1930s softball game. What would you do if you were in the President’s place? You would be inexorably pressured by the forces and the individuals that made you President, and by your own desire to be President in the first place; so you would wind up doing just what they all have done. It’s enough to stop any sane man from wanting to be President.
Don’t confuse us for sane people...but we are done with the form of politics that reeks of bullshit but through the passage of vast amounts of time has become so accustomed to its stench that it no longer can smell itself. The resolution, debate, and transportation all see themselves at Icarian heights but they too must come to grips with the dark underside of their own notions of elevated action. The sewers are the place where everything goes once degraded...even Kings...even their killers. By plumbing the depths of knowledge in the sewers we can see these degraded things for what they are and even more can find abased actions which the enlightened have cast out or FLUSHED. It is in this soiled knowledge that we choose to invest. Now...quickly into the labyrinth.
This is Victor Hugo (Le Miserables 1862. Chapter 2. Ancient History of the Sewers):
Let the reader imagine Paris lifted off like a cover, the subterranean net-work of sewers, from a bird's eye view, will outline on the banks a species of large branch grafted on the river. On the right bank, the belt sewer will form the trunk of this branch, the secondary ducts will form the branches, and those without exit the twigs. This figure is but a summary one and half exact, the right angle, which is the customary angle of this species of subterranean ramifications, being very rare in vegetation. A[n] more accurate image of this strange geometrical plan can be formed by supposing that one is viewing some eccentric oriental alphabet, as intricate as a thicket, against a background of shadows, and the misshapen letters should be welded one to another in apparent confusion, and as at haphazard, now by their angles, again by their extremities. Sinks and sewers played a great part in the Middle Ages, in the Lower Empire and in the Orient of old. The masses regarded these beds of decomposition, these monstrous cradles of death, with a fear that was almost religious. The vermin ditch of Benares is no less conducive to giddiness than the lions' ditch of Babylon. Teglath-Phalasar, according to the rabbinical books, swore by the sink of Nineveh. It was from the sewer of Munster that John of Leyden produced his false moon, and it was from the cess-pool of Kekscheb that oriental menalchme, Mokanna, the veiled prophet of Khorassan, caused his false sun to emerge. The history of men is reflected in the history of sewers. The Germoniae narrated Rome. The sewer of Paris has been an ancient and formidable thing. It has been a sepulchre, it has served as an asylum. Crime, intelligence, social protest, liberty of conscience, thought, theft, all that human laws persecute or have persecuted, is hidden in that hole; the maillotins in the fourteenth century, the tire-laine of the fifteenth, the Huguenots in the sixteenth, Morin's illuminated in the seventeenth, the chauffeurs [brigands] in the eighteenth. A hundred years ago, the nocturnal blow of the dagger emerged thence, the pickpocket in danger slipped thither; the forest had its cave, Paris had its sewer. Vagrancy, that Gallic picareria, accepted the sewer as the adjunct of the Cour des Miracles, and at evening, it returned thither, fierce and sly, through the Maubuee outlet, as into a bed-chamber. [58] Steps on the Aventine Hill, leading to the Tiber, to which the bodies of executed criminals were dragged by hooks to be thrown into the Tiber. It was quite natural, that those who had the blind-alley Vide-Gousset, [Empty-Pocket] or the Rue Coupe-Gorge [Cut-Throat], for the scene of their daily labor, should have for their domicile by night the culvert of the Chemin-Vert, or the catch basin of Hurepoix. Hence a throng of souvenirs. All sorts of phantoms haunt these long, solitary corridors; everywhere is putrescence and miasma; here and there are breathing-holes, where Villon within converses with Rabelais without. The sewer in ancient Paris is the rendezvous of all exhaustions and of all attempts. Political economy therein spies a detritus, social philosophy there beholds a residuum. The sewer is the conscience of the city. Everything there converges and confronts everything else. In that livid spot there are shades, but there are no longer any secrets. Each thing bears its true form, or at least, its definitive form. The mass of filth has this in its favor, that it is not a liar. Ingenuousness has taken refuge there. The mask of Basil is to be found there, but one beholds its cardboard and its strings and the inside as well as the outside, and it is accentuated by honest mud. Scapin's false nose is its next-door neighbor. All the uncleannesses of civilization, once past their use, fall into this trench of truth, where the immense social sliding ends. They are there engulfed, but they display themselves there. This mixture is a confession. There, no more false appearances, no plastering over is possible, filth removes its shirt, absolute denudation puts to the rout all illusions and mirages, there is nothing more except what really exists, presenting the sinister form of that which is coming to an end. There, the bottom of a bottle indicates drunkenness, a basket-handle tells a tale of domesticity; there the core of an apple which has entertained literary opinions becomes an apple-core once more; the effigy on the big sou becomes frankly covered with verdigris, Caiphas' spittle meets Falstaff's puking, the louis-d'or which comes from the gaming-house jostles the nail whence hangs the rope's end of the suicide. a livid foetus rolls along, enveloped in the spangles which danced at the Opera last Shrove-Tuesday, a cap which has pronounced judgment on men wallows beside a mass of rottenness which was formerly Margoton's petticoat; it is more than fraternization, it is equivalent to addressing each other as thou. All which was formerly rouged, is washed free. The last veil is torn away. A sewer is a cynic. It tells everything. The sincerity of foulness pleases us, and rests the soul. When one has passed one's time in enduring upon earth the spectacle of the great airs which reasons of state, the oath, political sagacity, human justice, professional probity, the austerities of situation, incorruptible robes all assume, it solaces one to enter a sewer and to behold the mire which befits it. This is instructive at the same time. We have just said that history passes through the sewer. The Saint-Barthelemys filter through there, drop by drop, between the paving-stones. Great public assassinations, political and religious butcheries, traverse this underground passage of civilization, and thrust their corpses there. For the eye of the thinker, all historic murderers are to be found there, in that hideous penumbra, on their knees, with a scrap of their winding-sheet for an apron, dismally sponging out their work. Louis XI. is there with Tristan, Francois I. with Duprat, Charles IX. is there with his mother, Richelieu is there with Louis XIII., Louvois is there, Letellier is there, Hebert and Maillard are there, scratching the stones, and trying to make the traces of their actions disappear. Beneath these vaults one hears the brooms of spectres. One there breathes the enormous fetidness of social catastrophes. One beholds reddish reflections in the corners. There flows a terrible stream, in which bloody hands have been washed. The social observer should enter these shadows. They form a part of his laboratory. Philosophy is the microscope of the thought. Everything desires to flee from it, but nothing escapes it. Tergiversation is useless. What side of oneself does one display in evasions? the shameful side. Philosophy pursues with its glance, probes the evil, and does not permit it to escape into nothingness. In the obliteration of things which disappear, in the watching of things which vanish, it recognizes all. It reconstructs the purple from the rag, and the woman from the scrap of her dress. From the cess-pool, it re-constitutes the city; from mud, it reconstructs manners; from the potsherd it infers the amphora or the jug. By the imprint of a finger-nail on a piece of parchment, it recognizes the difference which separates the Jewry of the Judengasse from the Jewry of the Ghetto. It re-discovers in what remains that which has been, good, evil, the true, the blood-stain of the palace, the ink-blot of the cavern, the drop of sweat from the brothel, trials undergone, temptations welcomed, orgies cast forth, the turn which characters have taken as they became abased, the trace of prostitution in souls of which their grossness rendered them capable, and on the vesture of the porters of Rome the mark of Messalina's elbowing.
Finally, but for shit life...this is our final descent...welcome to the darkest corners of debate...
This is Antonin Artaud:
There where it smells of shit

it smells of being.

Man could just as well not have shat,

not have opened the anal pouch,

but he chose to shit

as he would have chosen to live

instead of consenting to live dead.
Because in order not to make caca,

he would have had to consent

not to be,

but he could not make up his mind to lose

being,

that is, to die alive.
There is in being

something particularly tempting for man

and this something is none other than

CACA.

(//Roaring here.//)
To exist one need only let oneself be,

but to live,

one must be someone,

to be someone,

one must have a BONE,

not be afraid to show the bone,

and to lose the meat in the process.
Man has always preferred meat

to the earth of bones.

Because there was only earth and wood of bone,

and he had to earn his meat,

there was only iron and fire

and no shit,

and man was afraid of losing shit

or rather he //desired// shit

and, for this, sacrificed blood.
In order to have shit,

that is, meat,

where there was only blood

and a junkyard of bones

and where there was no being to win

but where there was only life to lose.

* o reche modo
* to edire
* di za
* tau dari
* do padera coco
At this point, man withdrew and fled.
Then the animals ate him.
It was not a rape,

he lent himself to the obscene meal.
He relished it,

he learned himself

to act like an animal

and to eat rat

daintily.
And where does this foul debasement come from?



The fact that the world is not yet formed,

or that man has only a small idea of the world

and wants to hold on to it forever?
This comes from the fact that man,

one fine day,

//stopped//

the idea of the world.
Two paths were open to him:

that of the infinite without,

that of the infinitesimal within.
And he chose the infinitesimal within.

Where one need only squeeze

the spleen,

the tongue,

the anus

or the glans.
And god, god himself squeezed the movement.
Is God a being?

If he is one, he is shit.

If he is not one

he does not exist.
But he does not exist,

except as the void that approaches with all its forms

whose most perfect image

is the advance of an incalculable group of crab lice.
"You are mad Mr. Artaud, what about the mass?"
I deny baptism and the mass.

There is no human act,

on the internal erotic level,

more pernicious than the descent

of the so-called jesus-christ

onto the altars.
No one will believe me

and I can see the public shrugging its shoulders

but the so-called christ is none other than he

who in the presence of the crab louse god

consented to live without a body,

while an army of men

descended from a cross,

to which god thought he had long since nailed them,

has revolted,

and, armed with steel,

with blood,

with fire, and with bones,

advances, reviling the Invisible

to have done with GOD'S JUDGMENT.

=Valley - Negative= 
===== ===== 
==Van Gogh Kritik== 
We begin with a mirror…but not just any mirror. This mirror does not reflect things as they appear at first glance, but reflects things as they are. Much like Freud’s reflection in the mirrored glass of a train car, the image is not one of beauty and virility but instead one of decline, decay, and ultimately violence. Like Freud the affirmative will be tricked by the eye…they will not see themselves in the mirror but rather be disgusted by the images that stare them in the face. Rational society is built upon this fundamental misapprehension: the denial of the dark underbelly of our existence. We turn away from polite society in an attempt to see humanity and our politics for what they are…we turn to Vincent Van Gogh in an attempt not to resist the darkness present just under the surface of reality, but rather to plunge into it. It is this destructive moment of chaos that certifies our mortality and turns to a life stripped from all utopianism and finds consolation in it…even in our madness, our violence, our joy, and ultimately our death.

Bataille in 1987 (Georges, Visions of Excess: Selected Essays 1927-1939. Translated by Alan Stoekl. Pg. 61-72)

The Annales medicao-psychologiques presents the following facts on the subject of “Gaston F. . .,age 30, embroidery designer, admitted to the Saint-Anne Hospital on January 25, 1924. . .” On the morning of December 11, he was walking on the Boulevard de Menilmontant, and having arrived at the Pere-Lachaise cemetery, he stared at the sun, and, receiving from its rays the imperative to tear off his finger,without hesitation, without feeling and pain, he seized between his teeth his left index finger, successively broke through the skin, the flexor and extensor tendons, and the articular ligaments at the level of the phalangeal articulation; using his right hand, he then twisted the extremity of the dilacerated index finger, severing it completely. He tried to flee from several policemen, who nevertheless succeeded in overpowering him, and took him to the hospital. . . The young automutilator, beyond working as an embroidery designer, was a painter in his spare time. There are few details concerning the tendencies revealed in his painting, but we know that he had read the art criticism of Mirbeau. His anxieties also led him to such subjects as Hindu mysticism and the philosophy of Fredrich Nietzsche. In the days that preceded the automutilation, he drank several glasses of rum or cognac. He still suspects that he was influenced by the biography of Van Gogh, in which he has read that the painter, during a spell of madness, had cut off his ear and sent it to a girl in a house of prostitution. It was then that, walking along the Boulevard de Menilmontant on December 11, he “asked the sun for advice, got an idea into his head, stared at the sun to hypotnize himself, guessing that its answer was yes.” He thereby seemed to receive approval. “Lazy man, get out of your sorry state” it seemed to be telling him, through thought transmission. “It did not seem very hard,” he added, “after contemplating suicide, to bite off a finger. I told myself: I can always do that.” The fact that Gaston F. was influenced by Van Gogh is worth noting only for the sake of completeness. Once a decision is reached with the violence necessary for the tearing off of a finger, it entirely eludes the literary suggestions that may have preceded it; the order that the teeth had to carry out so brusquely must appear as a need that no one could resist. Moreover, the coincidence of the two painters’ gestures regains its strange freedom at the moment when the same external force, independently chosen on both sides, intervenes in the activity of teeth or razor: no biography of Van Gogh should induce the Pere-Lachaise mutilator’s absurd recourse to the blinding rays of the sun, in order to carry out a sacrifice no one could bear to see without screaming. . . It is relatively easy to establish the extent to which Van Gogh’s life was dominated by the overwhelming relations he maintained with the sun, yet this question has never before been raised. The sun paintings by the Man with the Severed Ear are sufficiently well known and sufficiently unexpected to have disconcerted many; they only become intelligible when they are seen as the very expression of the personality (or, as some would say, of the sickness) of the painter. Most were done after Van Gogh’s mutilation (on Christmas night, 1888). The obsession, however, appears in two sketches (La Faille, 1374, 1375) done during the Paris period (1886-88). The period of Arles is represented by the three Sowers (La Faille, 422, June 1888; 450 and 451, August 1888), but these three paintings still show only the sunset. The sun appears “in all its glory: only in 1889, during the painter’s stay in the mental hospital in Saint-Remy, in other words, after his mutilation (see La Faille, 617, June 1889; 628, September 1889 and 710, 713, 720, 729, 736, 737—all without an exact date). The correspondence of this period indicates that the solar obsession had finally reached its high point. It is at this time that he uses the expression “the sun in all its glory” in a letter to his brother and that he probably practiced staring at this blinding sphere from his window (which certain doctors in the past held to be a sign of incurable madness). After the departure from Saint-Remy (January 1890) an until his suicide (July1890) the sun disappears almost entirely from the paintings. But in order to show the importance and the development of Van Gogh’s obsession, it is necessary to link suns with sunflowers, whose large disk haloed with short petals recalls the disk f the sun, at which it ceaselessly and fixedly stares throughout the day. This flower is also simply known (in French) by the name “the sun”; in the of painting it is linked to the name of Van Gogh, who wrote that he had a little of the sunflower (in the same way that Berne “has” the bear, or Rome “has” the she-wolf). As early as the Paris period, he had depicted a sunflower elevated on its stalk, isolated in a tiny garden; if most of the vases of sunflowers were painted at Arles in August 1888 was living with him, had just completed a portrait that shows Van Gogh painting sunflowers. It is probable that at this time Van Gogh was working on a variant of one of the paintings of August (he was working, as he often did, from memory, following Gauguin’s example). The close association between the solar flower obsession and the most exasperated torment becomes all the more expressive when the heightened fancy of the painter sometimes leads to representation of the flower as withered and dead (La Faille 452, 453 and fig. 1, p. 10). No one else, it seems, has ever painted wilted flowers, and Van Gogh himself painted all other flowers as fresh. This double bond uniting the sun-star, the sun-flower, and Van Gogh can moreover be reduced to normal psychological theme in which the star is opposed to the withered flower, as are the ideal term and the real term of the ego. This is what appears fairly regularly, it seems, in the different variants of the theme. Speaking in a letter to his brother about a painting he liked, he expressed the wish that it be placed between two vases of sunflowers, like a clock between two candelabra. It is possible to see the painter himself as an overwhelming incarnation of the candelabrum of sunflowers, attaching to his hat a crown of lighted candles and going out under this halo at night in Arles (January or February 1889), under the pretext, as he said, of painting a countryside at night. The very fragility of this miraculous hat of flames without a doubt expresses the striving for dislocation that Van Gogh obeyed each time he came under the influence of a fiery focal point. For example when he represented a candlestick placed on the seat of Gauguin’s empty chair. . . A letter from the painter to his brother, dated December 1888 (Brieven aan zijn Broeder, no. 563) mentions for the first time “Gauguin’s armchair, red and green night effect, walls and floor red and green again, on the seat two novels and a candle. . .” Van Gogh adds in a second letter, written on January 17, 1890 (Brieven aan zijn Broeder, no. 571): “I should like De Haan to seek a study of mine of a lighted candle and two novels (one yellow, the other pink) lying on an empty armchair (really Gauguin’s chair), a size 30 canvas, in red and green. I have just been working again today on its pendant, my own empty chair, a white chair with a pipe and a tobacco pouch. [This is the the painting reproduced in La Faille as no. 498.] In these tow studies, as in others, I have tried for an effect of light by means of color. . . “ These two paintings are especially significant in that they date from the period of the mutilation. One need only look at the reproductions of the paintings to see that they represent not just an armchair or a chair, but the virile personae of the two painters. Due to a lack of information, it is difficult to interpret these paintings with perfect certainty; one cannot, however, fail to be struck by a contrast to Gauguin’s advantage: an unlit pipe (an extinguished and suffocating hearth) is opposed to a lit candle, a tawdry pouch of tobacco (a dessicated and calcified substance) is opposed to two novels coverd with brightly colored paper. The difference is all the more charged with the troubling elements in that it corresponds to the period in which Van Gogh’s feelings of hatred for his friend were so extreme that they led to a definitive break, but the hatred directed against Gauguin is only one of the most bitter forms of an inner rending whose theme is generally found in all of Van Gogh’s mental activity. Gauguin played for his friend the role of an ideal assuming the most exalted aspirations of Van Gogh’s ego, even to the point of its most insane caonsequences: hateful and despairing humiliation, with its disconcerting counterpart, the close identification of the one who humiliates with the one who is humiliated. Even the ideal carries within itself something of the deformities of which it is the exasperated anthesis: the candle does not solidly adhere to the armchair, where its position is precarious and even shocking; the sun in its glory is doubtless opposed to the faded sunflower, but no matter how dead it may be this sunflower is also a sun, and the sun is in some way deleterious and sick: it is sulfer colored [il a la couleur d soufre], the painter himself writes twice in French. This equivalence of opposing elements still characterizes, in the Armchair of Gauguin, the return of the theme in a new system of relations: in relation to the illuminated gas jet the unfortunate candle plays the same humiliating role that the dead pipe plays in relation to the candle; the upturned gas jet only elevates a little more a break that is, fundamentally, the sign of irreducible heterogeneity of the lacerated (and unrestrained) elements of Van Gogh’s personality. The relations between this painter (identifying himself successively with fragile candles and with sometimes fresh and sometimes faded sunflowers) and an ideal, of which the sun is the most dazzling form, appear to be analogous to those men that maintained at one time with their gods, at least so long as these gods stupefied them; mutilation normally intervened in these relations as sacrifice: it would represent the desire to resemble perfectly an ideal term, generally characterized in mythology as a solar god who tears and rips out his own organs. In this way the theme connects with Gaston F.’s mutilation, and its meaning can be emphasized through a third example, in which a man of fire orders a woman to off her ears in order to offer them to him. A 34 year old woman, seduced and made pregnant by her employer, gave birth to an infant who died a few days after its birth. After this the unfortunate woman suffered from a persecution mania accompanied by uncontrollable body movements and religious hallucinations. She was placed in a mental hospital. One morning, a guard found her tearing out her right eye: the left ocular globe was completely removed, and in the empty socket shreds of conjunctiva and cellular tissue could be seen, as well as adipose tissues; on the right there was a very pronounced exophtalmos. . . When interrogated as to the motive for her act, the patient stated that she had heard the voice of God and, some time later, had seen a man of fire: “Give me your ears, split open your head,” the phantom told her. After hitting her head against the walls, she tried to tear off her ears, then decided to gouge out her eyes. The pain caused by her first efforts was extreme, but the voice urged her to overcome the pain and she did not give up. She claims to have lost consciousness at that point and cannot explain how she managed to completely tear out her left eye. . . This case is especially meaningful in that the substitution of eyes for ears, due to the lack of a sharp instrument, leads from the mutilation of relatively unimportant parts (such as a finger or an ear) to the Oedipal enucleation, in other words to the most horrifying form of sacrifice. But how is it possible that gestures incontestably linked to mental disorder (even if they can never be seen as the symptions of a specific mental illness) may be spontaneously designated as the adequate expression of a veritable social function, of an institution as clearly defined, as generally human as sacrifice? The interpretation cannot, however, be contested when it is considered as an immediate association, entirely lacking any scientific elaboration. Even in antiquity, the insane were known to have characterized their mutilations in this way: Areteus writes of sick people he saw tearing off their own limbs because of religious feelings and in order to pay homage to gods who demanded this sacrifice. But it is no less striking that, in our day, with the custom of sacrifice in full decline, the meaning of the word, to the extent that it implies a drive revealed by an inner experience, is still as closely linked as possible to the notion of a spirit of sacrifice, of which the automutilation of madmen is only the most absurd and terrible example. It is true that this demented part of the sacrificial domain, the only one that has remained accessible to us, to the extent that it belongs to our own pathological psychology, cannot simply be opposed to its counterpart, religious sacrifices of men and animals: the opposition even exists within religious sacrifices of men and animals: the opposition even exists within religious practice, which itself confronts classic sacrifice with the most varied and insane forms of automutilation. In this respect it is the bloody orgies of Islamic sects that appear at the present time with the most dramatic and significant forms: the participants, collectively raised to the height of religious frenzy, end up at the horrible omophagous sacrifice, as well as at direct or indirect mutilations, smashing each other on the head with clubs or axes, throwing themselves on swords, or gouging out their eyes. Whatever the role played by acquired skills, for example in enucleation, the necessity of throwing oneself or something of oneself out of oneself remains the psychological or physiological mechanism that in certain cases can have no other end than death. The celebrations held by fanatics moreover only reenact in an attenuated from, sometimes in the same regious, the gallinitiation right of the priests of Cybele who, overcome by a fit of fury, where delirious for three days at a time, performing wild leaps and dances, brandishing weapons and cups, striking each other mercilessly, and arriving, while in an incredible exaltation, at the sacrifice of their own virility through the use of a razor, a shell, or a stone. The circumcision rite, in most cases, does not result in such sense of delirium; it represents a less exceptional from of the religious ablation of a part of the body, and even though the patient himself does not act, this rite can be seen as a kind of collective automutilation. We know that it is practiced in more or less all parts of the world, but the Israelites, by Muslims, and by a very large number of the indigenous populations of Africa, Oceania, and America. It is sometimes accompanied by real tortures that can result in death, as, for example, among the Becwanas of southern Africa. Of course, any practice as difficult to explain rationally as this has given rise to numerous interpretations: the best known, which attributes a desire for hygiene to the primitive peoples who developed this innovation, has long since been discarded; on the other hand the one that presents this mutilation as sacrifice, even if such a generalization is debatable, is incontestably based on a number of positive examples. Besides, whatever may be the sacrificial nature of circumcision, it must be seen above all as an initiation rite, and as such it must be rigorously assimilated to other mutilations carried out in the same circumstances. In particular, the tearing out of a tooth replaces circumcision in certain parts of New Guinea and Australia. The rupture of personal homogeneity and the projection outside the self of a pert of oneself with their rage and pain, appear thus to be linked regularly to the expiations, periods of mourning, or debaucheries that are openly evoked by the ceremony marking the entry into adult society. Less widespread that circumcision, the practice of the ablation of a finger is also much less well known; each example is quickly passed over by the different authors, who limit themselves in general to the indication, in a sentence, of the habitual occasions for the mutilation. It is fairly frequently a matter of death and the manifestations of despair that follow it; however in India one finds it connected, for the woman, to the birth of a child, and sickness play the same role in the Tonga Islands. Among Blackfoot Indians, the finger is offered to the morning star in a propitiation sacrifice. In the Fiji Islands the propitiation could even be addressed to a living man: when a subject gravely offended his chief, he cut off his little finger and presented it to the chief in a hollowed-out piece of bamboo, in order to obtain his pardon. It is surprising that this form of mutilation is found in most parts of the world: in Australia, in New Guinea, in the Tonga and Fiji Islands; in Paraguay, in Brazil, and on the northwestern coast of North America; in Africa among the Pygmies of Lake Ngami, the Hottentots, the Bushmen. In Greece as well a stone finger set up over tumuli in the countryside indicated that even in the second century A. D. the custom might not have always been unknown there. “As you go from Megalopolis to Messene,” writes Pausanias, after advancing about seven stades, there stands on the left of the highway a sanctuary of the goddesses. They call the goddesses themselves, as well as the district around the sanctuary, Maniae (Madnesses). In my view this is a surname of the Eumenides; in fact they say that it was here that madness overtook Orestes as punishment for shedding his mother’s blood. Not far from the sanctuary is a mound of earth, of no great size, surmounted by a finger made of stone; the mane, indeed, of the mound is the Tomb of the Finger. Here, it is said, Orestes on losing his wits bit off one finger of one of his hands. Adjoining this place is another, called Ace (Remedies) because in it Orestes was cured of his malady. Here too there is a sanctuary for the Eumenides. The story is that, when these goddesses were about to put Orestes out of his mind, they appeared to him black; but when he had bitten off his finger they seemed to him again to be white and he recoverd his senses at the sight. The strange practice of the ablation of the finger seems to be particularly frequent in a region as archaic as Australia, which does not know sacrifice in the classic sense of the word. And this fact is doubtless all the more remarkable in that it is difficult to deny the existence of the same rite in the Neolithic period: in the had-patters obtained in caves by applying the hand to the wall and surrounding it with paint, one or several phalanges are missing. Analogous practices found at the present time among the insane would thus appear to be not only generally human, but also very primitive; madness would only remove normal obsticles to an impulse as basic as its opposite, the impulse to eat. Even if there is an egoism that accompanies the appropriation of food and wealth, the movement that pushes a man in certain cases to give himself (in other words, to destroy himself) not only partially but completely, so that a bloody death ensues, can only be compared, in its irresistible and hideous nature, to the blinding flashes of lightning that transform the most withering storm into transports of joy. In ritual forms of communal sacrifice, in any case, and animal can be substituted for the victim—a cowardly gesture. Only a pitiful, substituted victim “penetrates into the perlous domain of sacrifice; it dies there,”according to Hubert and Mauss, “and indeed it is there in order to die. The sacrifice remains protected.” The freedom from “all selfish calculation,” from all reserve, remains nevertheless as the limit of these efforts to remain outside sacrifice, to the extent that nightmare creatures, such as gods, are charged with carrying to the very end of what ordinary men are happy to dream about: “the god who sacrifices himself gives himself irrevocably.” Write Hubert and Mauss. “This time all intermediaries have disappeared. The god, who is at the same time the sacrifice, is one with the victim and sometimes even with the sacrifice. All the differing elements that enter into ordinary sacrifice here enter into each other and become mixed together. But such mixing is possible only for mythical, that is ideal beings.” Hubert and Mauss neglect here examples of the “sacrifice of a god” that they could have taken from cases of automutilation—and through which alone sacrifice loses its character as a mere performance. There is, in fact, no reason to separate Van Gogh’s ear or Gaston F.’s finger from Prometheus’s famous liver. If one accepts the interpretation that identifies the purveying eagle (the aetos Prometheus of the Greeks) with the god who stole fire from the wheel of the sun, then the tearing out of the liver presents a theme in conformity with the various legends of the “sacrifice of god.” The roles are normally shared between the human form of a god and his animal avatar; sometimes the man sacrifices the animal, sometimes the animal sacrifices the man, but each time it is a case of automutilation because the animal and the man form a single being. The eagle-god who is confused with the sun by the ancients, the eagle who alone among all beings can contemplate while staring at “the sun in all its glory,” the Icarian being who goes to seek the fire of the heavens is, however, nothing other than an automutilator, a Vincent Van Gogh, a Gaston F. All the wealth he derives from the mythical delirium is limited to the incredible vomiting of the liver, ceaselessly devoured and ceaselessly vomited by the gaping belly of the god. If one followed these associations, the use of the sacrificial mechanisms for various ends, such as propitiation or expiation, would be seen as secondary, and one would only retain the elementary fact of the radical alteration that suddenly arises in collective life: for example, the death of a relative, initiation, the consumption of the new harvest. . .such an action would be characterized by the fact that it would have the power to liberate heterogeneous elements and to break habitual homogeneity of the individual, in the same way that vomiting would be opposed to its opposite, the communal eating of food. Sacrifice considered in its essential pahase would only be the rejection of what had been appropriated by a person or by a group. Because everything that is rejected from the human cycle is altered in an altogether troubling way, the sacred things that intervene at the end of the operation—the victim struck down in a pool of blood, the severed finger or ear, the torn-out eye—do not appreciably differ from a vomited food. Repugnance is only one of the forms of stupor caused by a horrifying eruption, by the disgorging of a force that threatens to consume. The one who sacrifices is free—free to indulge in a similar disgorging, free, continuously identifying with the victim, to vomit his own being just as he vomited a piece of himself or a bull, in other words free to throw himself suddenly outside of himself, like a gall or an aissaouah. Still, one can doubt that even the most furious of those who have ever torn and mutilated themselves amid screams and to the beat of a drum have abused this marvelous freedom to the same extent of Vincent Van Gogh, who carried his severed ear to the place that most offends polite society. It is admirable that in this way he both manifested a love that refused to take anything into account and in a way spat in the faces of all those who have accepted the elevated and official idea of life that is so well known. Perhaps the practice of sacrifice has disappeared from the earth because it was not able to be sufficiently charged with this element of hate and disgust, without which it appears in our eyes as servitude. The monstrous ear sent in its envelope, however, abruptly leaves the magic circle where the rites of liberation stupidly aborted. It leaves along with the tongue of Anaxarcus of Abdera, bit off and spat blood in the face of the tyrant Nicoreaon, and with the tongue of a zeno of Elea spat in the face of Demylos. . .both of these philosophers have been subjected to atrocious tortures, the first crushed while still alive in a mortar.

And, our project of sacrificial doubling marks the boundary where the coherence of political criticism breaks down. We confront rational existence with its opposite in the form of avant-garde literature in order to enact a sacrificial death of the 1AC. This death should not be viewed as an execution but rather as a self-mutilation. This process of auto-mutilation or self-destruction creates in its wake a subversiveness that denies the will to positivist utopianism present in the 1AC placing us in the center of a struggle between productive political action and the inescapable negativity that prefigures all of our associations with the world. You can’t learn this shit in school…only debate provides us with the space to deny the law of the land by reading the very texts that our law makers would have burned…

Stoekl in 1986 (Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. xi-xix)

It has become a commonplace of criticism to argue that modernist literature is about language itself. Avant-garde textual practice in some way fundamentally disrupts the quotidian usefulness and precision of language; behind the facade of utility we find another language, which is the real realm of modernity. Language becomes a universe unto itself, an absolute realm that refers to the senselessness of its own origins. This article of modernist faith is accurate, up to a point. Each of the authors dealt with in this book—Georges Bataille (1897-1962), Maurice Blanchot (b. 1907), Raymond Roussel (1877-1933), Michel Leiris (b. 1901), and Francis Ponge (b. 1899)—posits a realm of language that not only calls attention to its own workings, but shows that what is often considered most peripheral is really the central phenomenon of language. Thus both Roussel and Leiris, for example, attempt to see the fundamental statements of language as functions of puns: their writing is, at least to a certain extent, generated out of phonic similarities between words, similarities that might then uncover rather bizarre links between the meanings of words. Others, like Blanchot and Ponge, see a profound silence or death at the heart of writing, and write what amounts to a silencing of language as we know it. These projects tend to cross over: thus Roussel and Leiris are concerned, in one way or another, with the silence of their language, just as Blanchot and Ponge are occupied with the phonic or written configurations of the words they use, and with the multiple meanings—and problems—that lie behind each word. It is not hard to see these avant-garde realms of language as Utopias: they are realms where language as it should be—not as it is—is displayed. Marxist critics, among them Lukacs, were quick to point out that the apparent disruptions of modernism were in fact an admission of sterility, the carrying out of a revolution on an abstract ideal plane, where risks— and benefits—amounted to zero. In this view, avant-garde practice is restricted to an elite social sphere, since it can have little to say to people confronted with the problems of everyday life; it finally becomes a reactionary tool—its formal disruptions are merely reflections of bourgeois decay and are eminently appropriable by certain forces of order.1 Other critics, such as Julia Kristeva, argued that avant-garde formal subversion was inherently revolutionary, not reactionary: they held that the disruptions of language were the product of a predenotative "semiological flux"—that is, of a state of language outside the repressive strictures of logic and signification—and that the avant-garde text returned to liberate these forces in language and society. In this view, the most important avant-garde texts brought off a dialectical union between logic/denotation and the liberated flux of a subversive force of signification. But on the other hand, Kristeva maintained, certain writers, such as Louis- Ferdinand Celine, fundamentally misunderstood the revolutionary implications of their language practice and mistakenly associated it with fascism.2 There may, in fact, be a third possibility. As we read these five authors, we will attempt to see not only the Utopian denial or denegation of various political problems, but their return as well. Modernist texts may be the locus of an irresolvable struggle between different ideological forces, rather than the repository of a single one: we will attempt to read the space where that struggle occurs, where it is denied, and, conversely, where it can be read, perhaps through its very denial. To read a space between political positions and political rewritings, one need not be "neutral" oneself. Yet, as we shall see, the violence of inward conflict in the texts we propose to read cannot simply be exiled from critical consideration. These five authors, in different ways, focus on the problem of automutilation and sacrifice. This phenomenon of inner sacrifice is by no means a dead letter for criticism itself today: in fact it may be the most important one that we as readers of "literature" face. The inner violence of major characters (on a thematic level) mirrors the self-directed violence of language (in silence, in wordplay, in writing) in the modernist novels, autobiography, and poetry we propose to examine. Thus the models of a Utopian future depicted in these writings double the Utopias of language worked out by the writings on a formal level. The Utopian future that is most explicitly prefigured by Bataille— but that also lurks under the surface, so to speak, in the other writers—is one which would attempt to imagine, somehow implemented in society, the radical negativity and unrecoverable (but crucial) violence that occurs between sacrificer and victim, or ultimately, as we shall see in our reading of Bataille, between two opposing ideological forces that collide head on. But the question always returns: what will be the political manifestation of the squandered energy of sacrifice in society? Can fiction or poetry, as Utopian texts, somehow foresee it? The irony here is that the critic who would read these writings closely and perhaps dismiss their Utopian desire for strategic destruction is inescapably formed by a method of interpretation that was itself the result of the intervention (proposed by our authors) of sacrifice/doubling/automutilation. This method is, of course, deconstruction. By calling these writings "urtexts of deconstruction" we do not wish to imply that there are not other' 'urtexts'' as well: Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, and Heidegger are a few names that come to mind as authors of such "urtexts." But these authors are (in a different way) authors of "urtexts" of existentialism as well, whereas the authors treated in this book were totally unacceptable to larger literary and philosophical movements (such as existentialism),3 and they constitute a specific and crucial moment in contempory French literature and philosophy s out of which appeared the writings of critics who, in the United States at least, have come to be called "poststructuralists" (Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida, Gilles Deleuze, to cite three names). It at first seems strange to attempt to place in literary history (or in the history of philosophy) critics who are engaged in the critique of a history (or histories) based on metaphysical or dialectical models of causation, production, or presence. As is by now well known, the very model of literary influence has been put into question by these influential writers. But this (non)influence extends back in time as well: the interest in the model of sacrifice that is exhibited in the "urtexts of deconstruction" is much more than a quirk of 1930s or 1940s intellectual life; instead it is an affirmation of a dualist view of historical progress, in which productive history is itself opened out at key junctures by a negativity that escapes appropriation. We face the somewhat paradoxical situation, then, of considering a group of authors whose "influence" has been to point toward the impossibility of a coherent theory of influence. There are other "influences" as well: the privileging, in one way or another, of writing or inscription over speech, of force over dialectical articulation, of writing referring to its own status as anterior heterogeneous force. Perhaps the very critique of history that comes out of a reading of these "urtexts" has condemned them to exile from established histories of twentieth-century French literature. Of course (as we all know), symbolism came first, then surrealism, then existentialism, then the New Novel. Necessarily falling between the cracks of this history are the authors we shall read in this book. There is a certain logic to this: one simply cannot teach Bataille's obscenity or Blanchot's opacity in a high school. These then, as well as others (Celine, Artaud, Klossowski) are necessarily minor authors, not because they lack "importance" but because of a subversiveness that can never be erected and displayed as a law of the land. Yet, ironically, each of these authors would join his subversion to a view of a transformed society: this Utopian vision is one of the impossible establishment of a subversive principle (Bataille's expenditure, Blanchot's silence, Roussel's textual machine, etc.) in conjunction with a society or social experience that somehow embodies this subversion. It is that Utopian instant of conjunction, the violent meeting of irreconcilable forces, that is the moment of sacrificial death (the conjunction of sacrificer and sacrificed), as are also those doubles of sacrificial doubling, the "difference and repetition" of Deleuze, the "differance" or "dissemination" of Derrida. Thus the minor subversion of the "urtexts" that we mentioned a moment ago is soon transformed into the inescapable subversion of our contemporaries. (They in turn reflect back on their urtexts and reveal them to be inescapable as well.)

This process of struggle and continual sacrifice denies the statement of a political system that sees itself as morally superior in any way. The denial of the double nature of our existence, of the inherent negativity present in all things forces the affirmative to suture over the wounds created by our auto-mutilation proposing a position that is violently innocent. This process of moral superiority and denial of negativity leads to fascism. Only the process of continual auto-destruction staves off this fate.

Stoekl in 1986 (Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. 130-1)

We have examined texts of this sort in this book, and our method of reading owes much to (and perverts much of) Marin's method in Utopiques. It is degenerate avant-garde writing that attempts to explode the pure rationalism of a future society with all that escapes it: the result may often be sinister (as in the case of Celine's pamphlets).5 But the position or vantage point from which we write cannot offer any political or moral superiority. It is not more "human" than another position. The State that recognizes and would inevitably rationalize excess is sundered, and must (in spite of itself) face its own self-betrayal. It cannot establish itself in a region of pristine omniscience, and in this way it is different from a simple knowledge at the end of history. At the end of history, as foreseen by Bataille, dialectically nonrecuperable negativity is "recognized"— but that recognition itself is liable to be betrayed by what it impossibly recognizes.6 In the same way, the intellectual who would "utilize" this sundered absolute knowledge will be unable to definitively lose his or her guilt. To that extent the gap between our Bataillean metatext and the avant-garde texts we read is less than the gap between Marin's Marxism and the utopianism of More. Strictly speaking our double bind rigorously repeats the one faced by these avant-garde Utopias, these urtexts of deconstruction. The "ideology" we read, however, in these works comes from their refusal to recognize their own doubled positions, the betrayal and guilt of inherent negativity, and the repetitious necessity of analysis. This Utopian ideology is the unwriteable space in the text that embraces types of silence (Blanchot, Ponge), or loquacity (Leiris), or various repressive fictional alternatives—the mechanization of corpses and language, for example (Roussel). These are the alternatives to selfmutilation that in the end are even more guilty than that mutilation itself, because they would suture over the mutilation and substitute a position that is violently innocent. Fascism is always the most extreme example of this tendency: there the most aggressive destruction and self-destruction (on the part of the executioner or writer) is covered over or repressed by an utterly banal and finally irrational justification. (The most extreme example of this is, again, the pamphleteering of Celine, which conceals an irresolvable struggle between Marxism and an orgiastic violence behind an insipid but hallucinatory harangue.) Yet to think that we could ever simply leave behind any guilty ideology is as Utopian as the espousal of that ideology, because Marxism (or a rationalized model of any type, including Bataille's Utopia, at the end of La Part maudite, where negativity is somehow, in the future, recognized) will always see what defies it as an irrational, fascistic betrayal—and there is no higher vantage point from which we could prove Marxism wrong and argue for our own "human" perspective. Even though our viewpoint might be "dialectically" an "advance" over Marxism, it ultimately lacks the recuperative stability of the "Aufhebung." It is a dialectical advance that recognizes, by rewriting the dialectic, a radically defiant or unrecuperable negativity. To that extent, it is both a dialectical advance over Marxism, and there fore a continuation of the rationalizing tendency of Marxism (in theory and practice), and a defiant betrayal of Marxism (as well as of itself) in a repetitious dyadic struggle whose negativity cannot be simply integrated or put to work. In the same instant, at a crucial point, our viewpoint is both a dialectical move and a subversion of all dialectic. At that moment, as critical doubles of Bataille, we incessantly betray our own methodology (and thus we betray Bataille). In and out of the text.

Finally, we return to Bataille. Van Gogh is not just some Dutch painter who cut off his ear, but rather a person who reached the boiling point where the proposed stability of the world explodes rousing us from sleep putting us into contact with the very chaos that makes life worth living.

Bataille and Michelson in 86 (Van Gogh as Prometheus Author(s): Georges and Annette Source: October, Vol. 36, Georges Bataille: Writings on Laughter, Sacrifice, Nietzsche, Un- Knowing (Spring, 19), pp. 58-60 Published by: The MIT Press Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/778550]])

Vincent Van Gogh belongs not to art history, but to the bloody myth of our existence as humans. He is of that rare company who, in a world spellbound by stability, by sleep, suddenly reached the terrible "boiling point" without which all that claims to endure becomes insipid, intolerable, declines. For this "boiling point" has meaning not only for him who attains it, but for all, even though all may not yet perceive that which binds man's savage destiny to radiance, to explosion, to flame, and only thereby to power.

====== ====== 
===== ===== 
==Caucus Aff== 
==On the Road== 

They danced down the streets like dingledodies, and I shambled after as I’ve been doing all my

life after people who interest me, because the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who

are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones

who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman

candles exploding like spiders across the stars and in the middle you see the blue centerlight pop

and everybody goes «Awww!» (On the Road, 6)

We affirm a journey into the unknown – a halting of our fear of madness and the unexplored.

There is potential in the process of madness – madness as breakthrough, madness as undoing of

our own self-inflicted defeatism. We should abandon a search for certainty and stability, and

instead affirm the mixing and confusing of the concepts we hold sacred, and affirm the free space

which emerges when we have no destination.

Deleuze and Guattari 1972 (Gilles and Felix; Anti-Oedipus) 131-132

The schizo knows how to leave: he has made departure into something as simple as being

born or dying. But at the same time his journey is strangely stationary, in place. He does

not speak of another world, he is not from another world: even when he is displacing

himself in space, his is a journey in intensity, around the desiring-machine that is erected

here and remains here. For here is the desert propagated by our world, and also the new

earth, and the machine that hums, around which the schizos revolve, planets for a new sun.

These men of desire-or do they not yet exist? -are like Zarathustra. They know incredible

sufferings, vertigos, and sicknesses. They have their specters. They must reinvent each

gesture. But such a man produces himself as a free man, irresponsible, solitary, and joyous,

finally able to say and do something simple in his own name, without asking permission; a

desire lacking nothing, a flux that overcomes barriers and codes, a name that no longer

designates any ego whatever. He has simply ceased being afraid of becoming mad. He

experiences and lives himself as the sublime sickness that will no longer affect him. Here,

what is, what would a psychiatrist be worth? In the whole of psychiatry only Jaspers, then

Laing have grasped what process signified, and its fulfillment-and so escaped the

familialism that is the ordinary bed and board of psychoanalysis and psychiatry. "If the

human race survives, future men will, I suspect, look back on our enlightened epoch as a

veritable age of Darkness. They will presumably be able to savor the irony of this situation

with more amusement than we can extract from it. The laugh's on us. They will see that

what we call 'schizophrenia' was one of the forms in which, often through quite ordinary

people, the light began to break through the cracks in our all-too-closed minds…. Madness

need not be all breakdown. It may also be breakthrough…. The person going through egoloss

or transcendental experiences may or may not become in different ways confused.

Then he might legitimately be regarded as mad. But to be mad is not necessarily to be ill,

notwithstanding that in our culture the two categories have become confused.... From the

alienated starting point of our pseudo-sanity, everything is equivocal. Our sanity is not

'true' sanity. Their madness is not 'true' madness. The madness of our patients is an artifact

of the destruction wreaked on them by us and by them on themselves. Let no one suppose

that we meet 'true' madness any more than that we are truly sane. The madness that we

encounter in 'patients' is a gross travesty, a mockery, a grotesque caricature of what the

natural healing of that estranged integration we call sanity might be. True sanity entails in

one way or another the dissolution of the normal ego."* The visit to London is our visit to

Wasikowski, Kellie_2014 Friday, November 2, 2012 2:15:14 PM CT 70:cd:60:85:7c:ec

Pythia. Turner is there. Looking at his paintings, one understands what it means to scale

the wall, and yet to remain behind; to cause flows to pass through, without knowing any

longer whether they are carrying us elsewhere or flowing back over us already. The

paintings range over three periods. If the psychiatrist were allowed to speak here, he could

talk about the first two, although they are in fact the most reasonable. The first canvases are

of end-of-the-world catastrophes, avalanches, and storms. That's where Turner begins. The

paintings of the second period are somewhat like the delirious reconstruction, where the

delirium hides, or rather where it is on a par with a lofty technique inherited from Poussin,

Lorrain, or the Dutch tradition: the world is reconstructed through archaisms having a

modern function. But something incomparable happens at the level of the paintings of the

third period, in the series Turner does not exhibit, but keeps secret. It cannot even be said

that he is far ahead of his time: there is here something ageless, and that comes to us from

an eternal future, or flees toward it. The canvas turns in on itself, it is pierced by a hole, a

lake, a flame, a tornado, an explosion. The themes of the preceding paintings are to be

found again here, their meaning changed. The canvas is truly broken, sundered by what

penetrates it. All that remains is a background of gold and fog, intense, intensive, traversed

in depth by what has just sundered its breadth: the schizo. Everything becomes mixed and

confused, and it is here that the breakthrough-not the breakdown-occurs.

Great laughter rang from all sides. I wondered what the Spirit of the Mountain was thinking, and

looked up and saw jackpines in the moon, and saw ghosts of old miners, and wondered about it.

In the whole eastern dark wall of the Divide this night there was silence and the whisper of the

wind, except in the ravine where we roared; and on the other side of the Divide was the great

Western Slope, and the big plateau that went to Steamboat Springs, and dropped, and led you to

the western Colorado desert and the Utah desert; all in darkness now as we fumed and screamed

in our mountain nook, mad drunken Americans in the mighty land. We were on the roof of

America and all we could do was yell, I guess - across the night, eastward over the Plains. (On

the Road, 35)

Unfortunately, like Sal in the beginning of his journey we far to often want to follow one great

line across America or one singular line of logic. Sal realizes the errors of his ways and diverges

from this one great line and instead affirms a rhizomatic form of travel that affords him the space

to invent himself and a form of writing that breaks with inhibition and therefore the restrictions

on our own ability to describe our beautiful world. This is the basis for freedom.

ABEL, ’02 (Abel, Marco. MFS Modern Fiction Studies. 2nd ed. Vol. 48. N.p.: n.p., 2002.

227-56. Project MUSE. Web. 1 Oct. 2012)

Most importantly, Deleuze's vocabulary constitutes a formidable immanent link between his

thought and Kerouac's poetics 5 —an aesthetics of writing that emerged most famously, though

admittedly not most conclusively, in On The Road. 6 Significantly, one of the most central

sentences of the novel occurs early on. Reflecting on the awkward start of his first road trip, Sal

Paradise insightfully narrates that "it was my dream that screwed up, the stupid hearthside idea

that it would be wonderful to follow one great red line across America instead of trying various

roads and routes" (13; emphasis added). Indeed, it is precisely the physical following and

aesthetic mapping of the various roads and routes—or Deleuzean lines of flight—that

Wasikowski, Kellie_2014 Friday, November 2, 2012 2:15:14 PM CT 70:cd:60:85:7c:ec

characterize the entire narrative. From the beginning, On The Road produces the road narrative

as rhizomatic. 7 As a horizontal, rhizomatic mapping of the literary, cultural, and political

American landscape, the novel does more than just reject an arborescent—that is, a more

vertical, hierarchical, goal-oriented, or, if you will, tourist—model of traveling. Exceeding the

level of content—its four trips through the country—the novel also begins to invent a style of

literary writing that rejects what Kerouac elsewhere describes as "the conventional English

sentence [. . .] so ironbound in its rules, so inadmissible with references to the actual format of

my mind [. . .] that I couldn't express myself through that form any more" (Good Blonde 145).

Or, as Dean puts it in On The Road, "Man, wow, there's so many things to do, so many things to

write! How to even begin to get it all down and without modified restraints and all hung-up on

like literary inhibitions and grammatical fears . . ." (7).

Kerouac's refusal to participate in the dominant literary tradition or abide by its rules has proven

to be at the heart of many critical receptions of On The Road. On the one hand, Kerouac is

condemned by critics such as Norman Podhoretz or Leslie Fiedler for producing naïve

autobiography, which they all the more despise for its allegedly apolitical or, worse, conservative

conception of the socio-political plane. 8 On the other hand, the novel is often seen as a "call to

arms" (Birkets 74) or hailed as a "rallying point for the elusive spirit of the rebellion" of the

immediate post-war period (Ossterreicher 5). Despite the obvious differences in these judgments

of Kerouac's work, however, both imply that Kerouac and his novel speak "for" someone: either

for the dispossessed that need to be rallied to rebel against, for instance, Eisenhower smugness,

[End Page 230] or, alternatively, for the conservative status quo that attempts to fend off cultural

and political change. Either way, Kerouac is read as a spokesperson, a representative for a

particular group.

The novel's particular stylistics is often viewed accordingly: either as a condemnable

aestheticizing of social relations that ideologically conceals the "true" conditions of American

reality, or as a subversive poetics that initiates the dawn of a new, progressive, freer age.

Indicative of a tradition of literary criticism that views language representationally, both sides of

the debate ignore key moments in the novel itself—moments that immanently reject both major

arguments and instead suggest a poetics at work that evokes Deleuze's conception of a

minoritarian (literary) practice.

I realized that I had died and been reborn numberless times but just didn’t remember especially

because the transitions from life to death and back to life are so ghostly easy, a magical action for

naught, like falling asleep and waking up again a million times, the utter casualness and deep

ignorance of it. I realized it was only because of the stability of the intrinsic Mind that these

ripples of birth and death took place, like the action of wind on a sheet of pure, serene, mirrorlike

water. I felt sweet, swinging bliss, like a big shot of heroin in the mainline vein; like a gulp

of wine late in the afternoon and it makes you shudder; my feet tingled. I thought I was going to

die the very next moment. But I didn’t die, and walked four miles and picked up ten long butts

and took them back to Marylou’s hotel room and poured their tobacco in my old pipe and lit up.

(On the Road, 101)

We will refer to this process of being born, dying, and living again becoming. Kerouac’s work is

a machine that produces becoming. Not a starting point or a destination but rather a process

without end.

Wasikowski, Kellie_2014 Friday, November 2, 2012 2:15:14 PM CT 70:cd:60:85:7c:ec

ABEL, ’02 (Abel, Marco. MFS Modern Fiction Studies. 2nd ed. Vol. 48. N.p.: n.p., 2002.

227-56. Project MUSE. Web. 1 Oct. 2012)

Rejecting the standard interpretive approaches to Kerouac based on critical paradigms

such as psychobiography, history, or ideology—all of which frame a text on the level of

"representation" and search for "meaning"—Deleuze conceives of Kerouac's work as productive

and is instead interested in what it does. 3 Asserting together with Guattari that "no art is

imitative" (Plateaus 304), Deleuze responds to Kerouac's [End Page 228] spontaneous prose as

constituting a literary machine that produces affects, not a signifying, representational system

that requires an interpretative search for hidden meanings. 4 Thus radically disavowing the very

basis of most literary criticism—the holy trinity of signification, Oedipus, and economical

determinism—Deleuze offers the concept of "becoming," something that "is never

imitative" (305), as a means of responding to a text such as On The Road. As Deleuze writes

with his one-time co-author Claire Parnet, "To write is to become, but has nothing to do with

becoming a writer" (Dialogues 43). That is, to use a different Deleuzean example, a becomingdog

does not require that one actually must bark or wag one's tail. Becoming is not about

attaining an object or end. Instead, becoming is akin to entering a zone of proximity, "an

encounter between two reigns, a short-circuit, the picking-up of a code where each is

deterritorialized. In writing one always gives writing to those who do not have it, but the latter

give writing a becoming without which it would not exist, without which it would be pure

redundancy in the service of the powers that be" (44). Or, as Deleuze and Guattari put it in their

most rhizomatic book, A Thousand Plateaus, "a line of becoming has neither beginning nor end,

departure nor arrival, origin nor destination [. . .]. A line of becoming has only a middle. The

middle is not an average; it is fast motion, it is the absolute speed of movement. [. . .] A

becoming is neither one nor two, nor the relation of the two; it is the in-between, the border or

line of flight or descent running perpendicular to both" (293). Deleuze's vocabulary, far from

being willful obscurantism as is sometimes alleged, precisely renders the experience of, in our

case, writing and reading. In conjunction with

So in America when the sun goes down and I sit on the old broken-down river pier watching the

long, long skies over New Jersey and sense all that raw land that rolls in one unbelievable huge

bulge over to the West Coast, and all that road going, all the people dreaming in the immensity of

it, and in Iowa I know by now the children must be crying in the land where they let the children

cry, and tonight the stars’ll be out, and don’t you know that God is Pooh Bear? the evening star

must be drooping and shedding her sparkler dims on the prairie, which is just before the coming

of complete night that blesses the earth, darkens all rivers, cups the peaks and folds the final

shore in, and nobody, nobody knows what’s going to happen to anybody besides the forlorn rags

of growing old, I think of Dean Moriarty, I even think of Old Dean Moriarty the father we never

found, I think of Dean Moriarty. (On the Road, 178)

And this process of becoming is essential to casting off the Oedipal yoke. Oedipus is the figure

of power and the process of colonization. By resisting our becoming we engage in a process of

micro-fascism where we police ourselves for the benefit of power. In this sense absent the

process of becoming we desire our own oppression and therefore produce structures that

Wasikowski, Kellie_2014 Friday, November 2, 2012 2:15:14 PM CT 70:cd:60:85:7c:ec

actualize our oppression. Becoming opens up the space for the individual and therefore society at

large to create new social and political organizations.

Mark Seem 72 (AO xx-xxiii)

To be anti-oedipal is to be anti-ego as well as anti-homo, willfully attacking all reductive

psychoanalytic and political analyses that remain caught within the sphere of totality and unity,

in order to free the multiplicity of desire from the deadly neurotic and Oedipal yoke. For Oedipus

is not a mere psychoanalytic construct, Deleuze and Guattari explain. Oedipus is the figurehead

of imperialism, "colonization pursued by other means, it is the interior colony, and we shall see

that even here at home ... it is our intimate colonial education." This internalization of man by

man, this "oedipalization," creates a new meaning for Suffering, internal suffering, and a new

tone for life: the depressive tone. Now depression does not just come about one fine day, Anti-

Oedipus goes on, nor does Oedipus appear one day in the Family and feel secure in remaining

there. Depression and Oedipus are agencies of the State, agencies of paranoia, agencies of power,

long before being delegated to the family. Oedipus is the figure of power as such, just as neurosis

is the result of power on individuals. Oedipus is everywhere. For anti-oedipalists the ego, like

Oedipus, is "part of those things we must dismantle through the united assault of analytical and

political forces."4 Oedipus is belief injected into the unconscious, it is what gives us faith as it

robs us of power, it is what teaches us to desire our own repression. Everybody has been

oedipalized and neuroticized at home, at school, at work. Everybody wants to be a fascist.

Deleuze and Guattari want to know how these beliefs succeed in taking hold of a body, thereby

silencing the productive machines of the libido. They also want to know how the opposite

situation is brought about, where a body successfully wards off the effects of power. Reversing

the Freudian distinction between neurosis and psychosis that measures everything against the

former, Anti Oedipus concludes: the neurotic is the one on whom the Oedipal imprints take,

whereas the psychotic is the one incapable of being oedipalized, even and especially by

psychoanalysis. The first task of the revolutionary, they add, is to learn from the psychotic how to

shake off the Oedipal yoke and the effects of power, in order to initiate a radical politics of desire

freed from all beliefs. Such a politics dissolves the mystifications of power through the kindling,

on all levels, of anti-oedipal forces-the schizzes-flows-forces that escape coding, scramble the

codes, and flee in all directions: orphans (no daddy-mommy-me), atheists (no beliefs), and

nomads (no habits, no territories).

A schizoanalysis schizophrenizes in order to break the holds of power and institute

research into a new collective subjectivity and a revolutionary healing of mankind. For we are

sick, so sick, of our selves!

It is actually not accurate to say that Deleuze and Guattari develop the schizoanalytic

approach, for, as they show, it has always been at work in writers like Miller or Nietzsche or

Artaud. Stoned thinking based on intensely lived experiences: Pop Philosophy.

To put it simply, as does Miller, "everybody becomes a healer the moment he forgets

about himself." And Miller continues: "Reality is here and now, everywhere, gleaming through

every reflection that meets the eye ... , Everybody is a neurotic, down to the last man and

‘woman. The healer, or the analyst, if you like, is only a super-neurotic.... To be cured we must

rise from our graves and throw off the cerements of the dead. Nobody can do it for another-it is a

private affair which is best done collectively."5 Once we forget about our egos a non-neurotic

form of politics becomes possible, where singularity and collectivity are no longer at odds with

each other, and where collective expressions of desire are possible. Such a politics does not seek

Wasikowski, Kellie_2014 Friday, November 2, 2012 2:15:14 PM CT 70:cd:60:85:7c:ec

to regiment individuals according to a totalitarian system of norms, but to de-normalize and deindividualize

through a multiplicity of new, collective arrangements against power. Its goal is the

transformation of human relationships in a struggle against power. And it urges militant groups,

as well as lone individuals, to analyze and fight against the effects of power that subjugate them:

"For a revolutionary group at the preconscious level remains a subjugated group, even in seizing

power, as long as this power itself refers to a form of force that continues to enslave and crush

desiring-production. . .. A subject-group, on the contrary, is a group whose libidinal investments

are themselves revolutionary, it causes desire to penetrate into the social field, and subordinates

the socius or the forms of power to desiring-production; productive of desire and a desire that

produces, the subject-group always invents mortal formations that exorcize the effusion in it of a

death instinct; it opposes real coefficients of transversality to the symbolic determinations of

subjugation, coefficients without a hierarchy or a group superego." There can be no revolutionary

actions, Anti-Oedipus concludes, where the relations between people and groups are relations of

exclusion and segregation. Groups must multiply and connect in ever new ways, freeing up

territorialities for the construction of new social arrangements. Theory must therefore be

conceived as a toolbox, producing tools that work; or as Ivan Illich says, we must learn to

construct tools for conviviality through the use of counterfoil research." When Illich speaks of

"convivial reconstruction," he is very close to Deleuze and Guattari's notion of a "desiringrevolution."

What is that feeling when you’re driving away from people and they recede on the plain

till you see their specks dispersing? - it’s the too-huge world vaulting us, and it’s good-by. But

we lean forward to the next crazy venture beneath the skies. (On the Road, 92)

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]