[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===The Jerk AC=== 

Ought=obligation

Stuckler defines UHC:

[<span style="line-height: 1.5;">University of Oxford, UK. 2. London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK This paper is one of several in a series commissioned by the World Health Organization for the First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research. </span>
http://www.pacifichealthsummit.org/downloads/UHC/the%20political%20economy%20of%20uhc.PDF]

"Universal Health Care"
AND
is often overlooked.

V-J

J highest obligation of governments. Rawls:

[John Rawls, A Theory of Justice, 1971, p. 3]

Justice is the first
AND
advantages of social life.

Equal opportunity needed to avoid arbitrariness. Arneson:

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">[Arneson, Richard, "Equality of Opportunity", </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2008/entries/equal-opportunity/>.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Equality of opportunity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">dictate further outcomes.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">S- Promoting Equality of Opportunity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">EOO necessary for human worth. Rawls:</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[John Rawls, A theory of Justice. P 73.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px;">s</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">http://books.google.com/books?id=b7GZr5Btp30C&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q=fair%20equality%20of%20opportunity&f=false</span></span>]


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Lucida,Arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">I should now like</span>
AND
main forms of human good.

Analytic Preempts



C1: racial minorities. 

Don't have equal access to health care in squo. American College of Physicians:

[RACIAL AND ETHNIC DISPARITIES IN HEALTH CARE, UPDATED 2010. A Position Paper of the American College of Physicians May 13, 2010. [[http://www.acponline.org/advocacy/where_we_stand/access/racial_disparities.pdf]]]

Racial and ethnic minorities
AND
16% of whites.

AND, UHC saves dozens of thousands of black lives a year. Leonard:

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">[Leonard, Dr. David J. "Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2)."</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">The Huffington Post</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 07 Sept. 2012. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html>.]</span>

A consequence of
AND
human right of life.

AND, infant mortality. ACP 2:

[RACIAL AND ETHNIC DISPARITIES IN HEALTH CARE, UPDATED 2010. A Position Paper of the American College of Physicians May 13, 2010. [[http://www.acponline.org/advocacy/where_we_stand/access/racial_disparities.pdf]]]

It should be noted
AND
of the white population.




C2: The Poor

No social mobility for poor without UHC. Marshall gives 4 warrants:

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Marshall, William P [UNC law prof]. “National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture” . Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35: 2012.]</span>

Enter healthcare
AND
as a nation.

UHC solves- Daniels:

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Norman Daniels (Tufts University). Justice, Health, and Health Care. American Journal of Bioethics, 2001 - Taylor & Francis.]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Some economists and philosophers</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
disproportionately on the ill.




C3: Disabled people

Marshall 2:

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Marshall, William P [UNC law prof]. “National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture” . Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35: 2012.]</span>

There is no equal opportunity
AND
continue to function.

==='Murica AC=== 

Ought = M obligation

V-M

S- Consistency with democratically favored policies. 5 warrants:

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">First, government action can only be morally justified if it uses an optimal decision-making process. Christiano writes: </span>


[Christiano, Thomas (University of Arizona). Democracy, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Jul 27, 2006. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/democracy/#NonInsVal]



But one need not
AND
decision making process.

AND, democracy is the most optimal decision-making process. Christiano 2:

Epistemologically, democracy is
AND
guide decision-makers.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Second, democracy is necessary to ensure that each person is in control of her own life. Christiano 3:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Some argue that</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
this larger environment.

AND, M can't exist if people are slaves.

Third, democracy necessary to treat people as equals. Christiano 4:

Many democratic theorists
AND
cases of disagreement.

Fourth, people in democracy more likely to use M to guide actions (it's original purpose). Christiano 5:

Many have endorsed
AND
forms of rule.

Fifth, democracies morally valuable even if they sometimes do bad things. Christiano 6:

Thinkers such as
AND
activities they share.

C1: UHC is democratically favored policy.

58% support, 38% oppose according to Kaiser Health Tracking Poll.

[<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Kaiser Health Tracking Poll: July 2009. http://www.kff.org/kaiserpolls/upload/7943.pdf]</span>

Having a national health plan
AND
Medicare-for-all.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND, this is true even when taxes are mentioned. CBS Poll:</span>

[<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">Levi, Michelle. "Poll: Majority Would Pay Higher Taxes For Universal Health Care." </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">CBSNews</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">. CBS Interactive, 6 Apr. 2009. <http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-4923731-503544.html>]</span>

A majority of Americans
AND
with higher incomes.

Etc...

==Negative== 

===Ought=can NC=== 

V-M

Morality can only obligate action if the agent is capable of performing that action. Streumer:

[Streumer, Bart. Reasons and Impossibility. Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition Vol. 136, No. 3 (Dec., 2007) (pp. 351-384)<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/40208804]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">The argument from tables and chairs</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
(R) is true.

Analytics about why ought=can because otherwise we have crazy unfulfillable obligations.

Standard- Rejecting impossible obligations

C1: US can't provide UHC

Tanner:

[Tanner, Michael D. "The Grass Is Not Always Greener: A Look at National Health Care Systems
Around the World." The Cato Institute. March 18, 2008.
http://www.cato.org/publications/policy-analysis/grass-is-not-always-greener-look-national-health-care-systems-around-world]


<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Universal Health Insurance</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">access to care.</span>

U.S. political climate makes this particularly impossible. Tanner 2:

[Tanner, Michael D. "The Grass Is Not Always Greener: A Look at National Health Care Systems
Around the World." The Cato Institute. March 18, 2008.
http://www.cato.org/publications/policy-analysis/grass-is-not-always-greener-look-national-health-care-systems-around-world]


Of course, there is no
AND
Americans can get something."

Thus, US can't guarantee UHC, & you negate.



=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==