<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>[[include component="page" wikiName="debatecoaches" page="space.template.Footer"]]
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cite Information</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For affirmative cites email colin.cozad@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For Negative cites email jakesoria62098@gmail.com</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wake Forest 1ac </span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Inherency</span>**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12px;">NextGen program is not getting sufficient funding now</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Jennifer Bogdan April 15, 2012/April 30 2012 (Press of Atlantic City, “Uncertainty about benefits, funds hurting Next Generation Air Transportation System, think tank study says” [[http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/communities/eht/uncertainty-about-benefits-funds-hurting-next-generation-air-transportation-system/article_606a1c4a-86a1-11e1-9a37-001a4bcf887a.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And status quo ATC programs fail</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ECT‘12 </span>(Eno Center for Transportation, “Excerpt from Eno Center for Transportation Report “. April. http://apps.mtc.ca.gov/meeting_packet_documents/agenda_1870/8-NextGen_-_Excerpt_from_Eno_Report.pdf)

----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px;">Economy</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US Economy is headed towards another recession</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Constable July 7 (2012, Simon Constable, columnist at Dow Jones Newswires and business journalist, “The Threat from a Recession,” Barron’s, http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424053111904317504577496670432140932.html?mod=BOL_twm_mw#text.print) Fresh data show the U.S. economy is weakening... ECRI states in a May report.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NextGen is the only way to boost the economy:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">3 Internal Links --</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Airport congestion kills US Economy - NextGen is key to solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schank 6/23/12 [Joshua L. Schank President & CEO Eno Center for Transportation http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement] ... we often think of be more involved.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. NextGen is key to creating Jobs</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Calio 11(Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future). With broad consensus the .... U.S. in our national ambition to win</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**3. NextGen creates a flexible air control system that facilitates growth and ends air congestion** JPDO 7 – Joint Planning and Development Office USFG “Business Case for the Next Generation Air Transportation System” 8/24/07). As a catalyst for ... serve (rather than to survive).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Air Mobility Essential to the National Economy** NSTC 10– National Science and Technology Council 10 Chaired by President Obama and VP Biden (Executive Branch to Coordinate Science and Technology Policy “National Aeronautics Research and Development Plan” [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/aero-rdplan-2010.pdf]] Feb 2010).</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mobility through the air is a key function of ... is essential to America’s economic success.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, economic Decline triggers multiple scenarios for extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows,’9 [Mathew Harris Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer Burrows Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]].]. Of course, the report encompasses more to ...... be increasingly difficult both within and between states in amore dog-eat-dog world.</span>

----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2 Internal Links</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Airline C02 emissions are the key contributors to climate change</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sewill 5</span> – Brendon, vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, “Fly Now, Grieve Later”, [[http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf]]
Aviation is the industry with the fastest¶ growing ...... <span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">aviation is set to become the world’s¶ dirtiest industry.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Contrails produced from aircraft exhaust cause climate change</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nojoumi et al. 08,</span> H. Nojoumi, I. Dincer, G. F. Naterer, Facutly of Engineering and Applied Science, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, 11-10-08, “Greenhouse gas emissions assessment of hydrogen and kerosene-fueled aircraft propulsion” http://ac.els-cdn.com/S0360319908015048/1-s2.0-S0360319908015048-main.pdf?_tid=03e6cdf7a240f9f4ea2a1390c2d2287e&acdnat=1342570116_5de56e2f9b825604398b5b024b8b4b28
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Condensation trails, or contrails, .... </span>in the case study. (see radiative forcing associated with various components in Fig. 9)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No alt causes – NextGen solves transportation emissions</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NEXA 11</span>(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2008 </span>**GAO advocated ....**__ __**emissions and greenhouse gasses**____<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
Anderegg et al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys .... <span class="underline0">attention to these groups of re- searchers in</span> future discussions in media, policy, and public <span class="underline0">forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span>.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The rate of warming is fast now – makes adaptation impossible</span>
The Daily Galaxy, “EcoAlert: Global Warming Threat Accelerating,” 12/7/2011, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/12/ecoalert-global-warming-threat-accelerating.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This stunning image of Alaska's annual walrus migration at top of page ....." says Grant Foster, lead author of the study.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We control several key positive feedbacks that will make warming escalate rapidly and uncontrollably once we hit the tipping point</span>
Venkataramanan and smitha ‘11(Department of Economics, D.G. Vaishnav College, Chennai, India Indian Journal of Science “Causes and effects of global warming p.226-229 March 2011 [[http://www.indjst.org/archive/vol.4.issue.3/mar11-pages159-265.pdf]] )
<span class="Underline">Green House Effect: When .... the amount of carbon in the atmosphere climbs!</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming is an existential risk – quickening reductions is key to avoiding extinction</span>
**Mazo 10 –** PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the .... cultural and political changes.


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The impact is rapid catastrophic climate change and extinction</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel ’07—Prof IR @ National War College (Terry, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, </span>there is one major existential threat<span class="Underline"> to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly .... </span><span class="Underline">to the United States, but potentially </span>to the continued existence of life on this planet


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Err on the side of scientific consensus – we access the largest most probable existential risk</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morgan, 2009</span>
(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>
__As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction .....__ __with our future at this game of Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the ards against our chances of survival?__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Joe </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Romm</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The world’s oceans may .....</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> need for reef and shell-building.</span>__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming turns their war scenarios – causes rapid escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kaku 11 Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12 BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in ..... </span>__runaway cycle of global warming.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US is key to solve environmental problems – reformed ATC makes the US an international green policy leader</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AOPA 9</span> – Aircraft Owners and Pilot Association, “NextGen funding would spur jobs”, 9/24, [[http://www.aopa.org/advocacy/articles/2009/091124nextgen.html]]
Moving forward with the new air traffic control ..... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be equal to “taking 2.2 million cars off the road for one year.”</span>

----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States Federal Government should increase funding for the Next Generation Air Transportation System.</span>
----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 4: Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Federal Government is key -- 2 reasons --</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strong Federal Leadership is the only way to complete the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ALPA 12 (Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Invest in NextGen to ... in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Federal investment critical to overcome current stalemates</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aviation system that is part of the life- .... timely manner if at all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New NextGen funding now would break the stalemate and finish NextGen within two years</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RAA 08 – Regional Airline Association (An airline association, “NextGen Stimulus Request” [[http://www.raa.org/Portals/0/News/equipaircrafttoreduceco2andcreatejobs010709_.pdf]] 2008)*ATC = Air Transportation System</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NextGen (Next Generation Air Transportation System) is the FAA’s plan for the ... next 17 years could actually happen in President-elect</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ft. Lauderdale 1ac</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Inherency</span>**
----

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12px;">NextGen program is not getting sufficient funding now</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Jennifer Bogdan April 15, 2012/April 30 2012 (Press of Atlantic City, “Uncertainty about benefits, funds hurting Next Generation Air Transportation System, think tank study says” [[http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/communities/eht/uncertainty-about-benefits-funds-hurting-next-generation-air-transportation-system/article_606a1c4a-86a1-11e1-9a37-001a4bcf887a.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And status quo ATC programs fail</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ECT‘12 </span>(Eno Center for Transportation, “Excerpt from Eno Center for Transportation Report “. April. http://apps.mtc.ca.gov/meeting_packet_documents/agenda_1870/8-NextGen_-_Excerpt_from_Eno_Report.pdf)
----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economy</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US Economy is headed towards another recession</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Constable July 7 (2012, Simon Constable, columnist at Dow Jones Newswires and business journalist, “The Threat from a Recession,” Barron’s, http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424053111904317504577496670432140932.html?mod=BOL_twm_mw#text.print) Fresh data show the U.S. economy is weakening... ECRI states in a May report.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NextGen is the only way to boost the economy:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">3 Internal Links --</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Airport congestion kills US Economy - NextGen is key to solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schank 6/23/12 [Joshua L. Schank President & CEO Eno Center for Transportation http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement] ... we often think of be more involved.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. NextGen is key to creating Jobs</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Calio 11(Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future). With broad consensus the .... U.S. in our national ambition to win</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**3. NextGen creates a flexible air control system that facilitates growth and ends air congestion** JPDO 7 – Joint Planning and Development Office USFG “Business Case for the Next Generation Air Transportation System” 8/24/07).</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> As a catalyst for ... serve (rather than to survive).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Air Mobility Essential to the National Economy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NSTC 10– National Science and Technology Council 10 Chaired by President Obama and VP Biden (Executive Branch to Coordinate Science and Technology Policy “National Aeronautics Research and Development Plan” [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/aero-rdplan-2010.pdf]] Feb 2010).</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mobility through the air is a key function of ... is essential to America’s economic success.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, economic Decline triggers multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows,’9 [Mathew Harris Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer Burrows Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]].]. Of course, the report encompasses more to ...... be increasingly difficult both within and between states in amore dog-eat-dog world.</span>
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2 Internal Links</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Airline C02 emissions are the key contributors to climate change</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sewill 5</span> – Brendon, vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, “Fly Now, Grieve Later”, [[http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf]]
Aviation is the industry with the fastest¶ growing ...... <span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">aviation is set to become the world’s¶ dirtiest industry.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Contrails produced from aircraft exhaust cause climate change</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nojoumi et al. 08,</span> H. Nojoumi, I. Dincer, G. F. Naterer, Facutly of Engineering and Applied Science, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, 11-10-08, “Greenhouse gas emissions assessment of hydrogen and kerosene-fueled aircraft propulsion” http://ac.els-cdn.com/S0360319908015048/1-s2.0-S0360319908015048-main.pdf?_tid=03e6cdf7a240f9f4ea2a1390c2d2287e&acdnat=1342570116_5de56e2f9b825604398b5b024b8b4b28
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Condensation trails, or contrails, .... </span>in the case study. (see radiative forcing associated with various components in Fig. 9)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No alt causes – NextGen solves transportation emissions</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NEXA 11</span>(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2008 </span>**GAO advocated ....**__ __**emissions and greenhouse gasses**____<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
Anderegg et al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys .... <span class="underline0">attention to these groups of re- searchers in</span> future discussions in media, policy, and public <span class="underline0">forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span>.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The rate of warming is fast now – makes adaptation impossible</span>
The Daily Galaxy, “EcoAlert: Global Warming Threat Accelerating,” 12/7/2011, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/12/ecoalert-global-warming-threat-accelerating.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This stunning image of Alaska's annual walrus migration at top of page ....." says Grant Foster, lead author of the study.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We control several key positive feedbacks that will make warming escalate rapidly and uncontrollably once we hit the tipping point</span>
Venkataramanan and smitha ‘11(Department of Economics, D.G. Vaishnav College, Chennai, India Indian Journal of Science “Causes and effects of global warming p.226-229 March 2011 [[http://www.indjst.org/archive/vol.4.issue.3/mar11-pages159-265.pdf]] )
<span class="Underline">Green House Effect: When .... the amount of carbon in the atmosphere climbs!</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming is an existential risk – quickening reductions is key to avoiding extinction</span>
**Mazo 10 –** PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the .... cultural and political changes.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The impact is rapid catastrophic climate change and extinction</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel ’07—Prof IR @ National War College (Terry, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, </span>there is one major existential threat<span class="Underline"> to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly .... </span><span class="Underline">to the United States, but potentially </span>to the continued existence of life on this planet

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Err on the side of scientific consensus – we access the largest most probable existential risk</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morgan, 2009</span>
(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>
__As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction .....__ __with our future at this game of Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the ards against our chances of survival?__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Joe </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Romm</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The world’s oceans may .....</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> need for reef and shell-building.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming turns their war scenarios – causes rapid escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kaku 11 Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12 BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in ..... </span>__runaway cycle of global warming.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US is key to solve environmental problems – reformed ATC makes the US an international green policy leader</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AOPA 9</span> – Aircraft Owners and Pilot Association, “NextGen funding would spur jobs”, 9/24, [[http://www.aopa.org/advocacy/articles/2009/091124nextgen.html]]
Moving forward with the new air traffic control ..... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be equal to “taking 2.2 million cars off the road for one year.”</span>
----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States Federal Government should increase funding for the Next Generation Air Transportation System.</span>
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 4: Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Federal Government is key -- 2 reasons --</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strong Federal Leadership is the only way to complete the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ALPA 12 (Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Invest in NextGen to ... in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Federal investment critical to overcome current stalemates</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aviation system that is part of the life- .... timely manner if at all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New NextGen funding now would break the stalemate and finish NextGen within two years</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RAA 08 – Regional Airline Association (An airline association, “NextGen Stimulus Request” [[http://www.raa.org/Portals/0/News/equipaircrafttoreduceco2andcreatejobs010709_.pdf]] 2008)*ATC = Air Transportation System</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NextGen (Next Generation Air Transportation System) is the FAA’s plan for the ... next 17 years could actually happen in President-elect</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Wake Forest**__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Round 1:**__ **Niles West MS -- Port Security**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**advantages: Economy, Terrorism** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1nc** - Politics (JV), States CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2nr** -- Politics (JV) and Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Round 3:**__ **Groves MC - Port Security**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**advantages: Terrorism, Human Trafficking** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1nc** - Politics (JV), T - Substantial, States CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2nr** - Politics (JV) and Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Round 5:**__ **Travis City Central SC - HSR**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**advantages**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">: Economy, Warming, Solvency </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1nc** - Politics (JV), T - Vagueness, States CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2nr** - T - Vagueness</span>

----
===__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ft. Lauderdale</span>__=== 

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 2: </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Palmetto High School - Military Ocean Terminals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">advantages: PACOM, Mobility </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc - </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Military, Spending DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2nr** - Spending DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Round 4**__ - **Ft. Lauderdale High School - HSR**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**advantages: Economy, Warming, Oil Dependence** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1nc -** T - Vagueness, States Cp, Spending DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2nr** - States Cp, Spending DA, Case</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Topicality</span>= 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Vagueness (HSR)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc Shell</span>**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Violation – the aff just specifies HSR which doesn’t exist</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">David Randall Peterman, ET AL, Coordinator Analyst in Transportation Policy William J. Mallett Specialist in Transportation Policy John Frittelli Specialist in Transportation Policy, CRS, Congressional Research Service, December 8, 2009, “High Speed Rail (HSR) in the United States”,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There is no authoritative definition of ..... or urban development.4</span>
----
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Substantial</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc Shell</span>**
----
**A substantial investment is over 20%**
**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)//EM//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>__C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount .....__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the first day of such period.</span>//

//**Transportation infrastructure investment is $48.1 billion**//
//**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)//EM
__This report responds to two GAO mandates under ....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>
----
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">T - </span><span style="line-height: 20px;">Excludes</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Military </span></span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">1nc Shell </span>**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure is physical capital that provides public services – it excludes the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fourie 6 – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">One way to define infrastructure is to describe it in terms of its characteristics .... while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating private economic activity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Musick, 10 – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist, this report focuses on two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources .. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">operations (such as those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Counterplans </span>= 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">States CP</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc Shell</span>**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The 50 state governments, the territories, and Washington DC should invest in a __national network of inter-city high speed passenger rail__ , audit their transportation programs to maximize efficiency, eliminate duplication and waste, and authorize any necessary increase in user fees to finance the plan.The 50 states and all relevant territories should enact legislation to facilitate interstate cooperation and provide for multijurisdictional planning on transportation infrastructure investments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">States solve – reforms overcome solvency deficits</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Puentes, 11- senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Robert, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">III. A New State Approach An emphasis on fiscal …., that vote came in November 2008, right it the middle of the economic downturn. 23 Governors should encourage this kind of self help.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Disadvantages</span>= 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spending DA </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc Shell</span>**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Government cutting Transportation Spending Now</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Ehl 2012 (Larry Ehl, 9/19/2012, Transportation Issues Dailey, "Details of Possible $1.5 Billion Funding cuts to road, transit, and rail", http://www.transportationissuesdaily.com/details-of-possible-1-5-billion-funding-cut-to-roads-transit-and-rail/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Preliminary estimates released by the White House last Friday ...... </span><span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">but note this is all subject to change, whether or not Congress acts </span>

<span class="IntenseEmphasis">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Transportation Projects Cause Massive Government Spending</span>**</span>
<span class="IntenseEmphasis">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Utt, 2011</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">– </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(12/13/11, Ronald, Ph.D. in Economics from Indiana University and Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow for the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “Infrastructure ‘Crisis’ is About Socialism,” The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2011/12/infrastructure-crisis-is-about-socialism)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">We constantly hear that America has an infrastructure crisis and that calamity will result if we don't address it .... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">our infrastructure crisis is really a crisis of monopoly socialism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failure to maintain fiscal discipline collapses investor confidence and causes economic collapse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Washington Post, 1-7, 11, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/07/AR2011010701826.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic decline causes war – studies prove</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, economic Decline triggers multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows,’9 [Mathew Harris Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer Burrows Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]].]. Of course, the report encompasses more to ...... be increasingly difficult both within and between states in amore dog-eat-dog world.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Politics</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jackson Vanik</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc Shell</span>**
----
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Will pass- Capital key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Reuters 8/21</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[8/21/12, [[http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/sns-rt-us-usa-russia-tradebre87k0xn-20120821,0,1978782.story]]]</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A U.S. business group</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> on Tuesday </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">said they were hopeful Congress would approve a bill .... </span>____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">days left before the elections</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, he said.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New transportation funding is politically unpopular – drains capital</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PC Key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">NYT 8/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[New York Times, 8/11/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/opinion/sunday/trade-relations-with-russia.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Since 1992, American presidents have waived application of the law and granted Russia temporary, normal trade status, which allows l... He should make good on that promise.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Key to Russia econ</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ICTSD 3-21</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[US Lawmakers Begin Debate on Russia Trade Restrictions, Bridges Weekly Trade News Digest, International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development, Volume 16 • Number 11 • 21st March 2012, [[http://ictsd.org/i/news/bridgesweekly/128997/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A few days prior to the Senate hearing, a letter signed by opposition … only darken Russia’s political future, hamper its economic development, and frustrate its democratic aspirations,” they said, suggesting instead that Washington implement legislation along the lines of the proposed Magnitsky bill.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Filger 9 (Sheldon, Columnist and Founder – Global EconomicCrisis.com, “Russian Economy Faces Disasterous Free Fall Contraction”, [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]])</span>
I<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">n Russia, historically, economic health … be that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Competitiveness Impact</span>**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failure to repeal Jackson-Vanik locks U.S. companies out of the Russian market --- undermines competitiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wall Street Journal, 4/6/2012 (U.S. Risks Missing Boom in Russia, p. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304177104577312260501829328.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia is on the cusp of joining the World Trade Organization after a two-decade journey, a landmark move to integrate the emerging economy into the international trading system. There's one problem for U.S. companies: They may be left out of the parade. Election-year sparring could keep the U.S. from lifting long-standing restrictions on trade with Russia by the time the country joins the WTO this summer. .....U.S. to be on an equal footing."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Collapse of competitiveness undermines leadership --- nuclear war results</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Khalilzad 1995 (Zalmay – prominent scholar on Levinas and Foucault, Losing the Moment?, Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2, p. 64 and 72)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership ... power system.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[He continues…]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TheUnitedStates is unlikely to preserve itsmilitary and technologicaldominance if the U.S. economy .... endow Americans with a Japanese-style propensity to save, it can use tax policy to raise the savings rate.</span>