===Contact=== 
Hello! If you would like to contact someone pertaining to novice cites and past 2NRs, please contact Callie Chappell at calliechappell44@gmail.com, or just talk to the team that you are debating. If they refuse to disclose, tell them that Callie says they have to. :) 
=Affirmative= 
==1AC HSR== 
The closest version most novices are reading can be found on Callie and Mike's wiki (Traverse City Central-- Callie Chappell & Michael Payne)-- the Wake Forest 1AC. Most TCC novices are reading HSR. 
I'll put exact cites up as soon as possible. 
Thanks! 
=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__China Fund CP__</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government _ with those funds.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The counterplan competes – tests ‘its’ in the resolution – refers to possession and the necessity of U.S. investment</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Also severs certainty – the world of the counterplan reserves the possibility of the U.S. saying no – aff certainty is key to avoid aff conditionality which means they can no link out of any DA – crushes ground</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Richter, ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many Americans might be surprised ... outcome can be avoided.”</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disadvantages </span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson-Vanik</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A __new political climate__ ensures the plan is un-popular—empirically proven.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 2</span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 –[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">President Obama barely mentions the need ... perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Narrow agenda key to productive session. Empirically, Obama overreaching threatens to collapse lame-duck.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miniter-investigative journalist-12 </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leading from Behind: The Reluctant President and the Advisors Who Decide for Him p.85</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">After the historic defeat, ... </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">take any more political risks</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failure makes Russia lashout</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Milov et al </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3/14</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">/12 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Sergey Aleksashenko Political Council member, People’s Freedom Party (Parnas) Alexander Lebedev</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Independent businessman and politician Vladimir Milov Leader, “Democratic Choice” movement Alexey Navalny Attorney and civil activist Boris Nemtsov Co-chairman, People’s Freedom Party (Parnas), "Solidarity” movement Ilya Ponomarev State Duma member, Just Russia Party Vladimir Ryzhkov Co-chairman, People’s Freedom Party (Parnas) “Remove Russia from Jackson-Vanik!”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Removal of Russia from the provisions of the Cold War era Jackson-Vanik Amendment has long been an issue of political debate. Although the outdated nature and irrelevance of the amendment is widely recognized, some politicians in the United States argue that the removal of Russia from Jackson-Vanik would help no one but the current Russian undemocratic political regime. That assumption is flat wrong. Although there are obvious problems with democracy and human rights in modern Russia, the persistence on the books of the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> __Jackson-Vanik__Amendment does not ... </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson-Vanik</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">!</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Causes nuclear war and extinction</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Israelyan 98 Victor was a Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist. The Washington Quarterly, Winter)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The__ first and by far ... until we all fall down together." n12</span>