<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[toc]]


</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contact Information</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I'll post the affirmative every time it changes, and neg strats. email me daehyun97@gmail.com for additional cite requests unless your name is Adam Hoffman.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[media type="custom" key="22141638" width="60" height="60"]]</span>

=<span style="text-align: left;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="text-align: left;">1AC GDS</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Deterrence</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 1 is Deterrence**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Conflict is emerging in the South Sea as China expands its military – escalating tensions and competing resource claims make miscalculation likely**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Westhead 7/14** (Rick Westhead, writer for Foreign Affairs, staff writer/South Asia Bureau Chief for the Toronto Star, The Star, 7/14/12, “Battle for the Pacific: Naval arms race in the China Sea”, http://www.thestar.com/news/world/article/1225396--battle-for-the-pacific-naval-arms-race-in-the-china-sea)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A 21st-century Great Game ... as its first aircraft carrier.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Realignment to Guam solves hostilities – geography ensures effective de-escalation and robust deterrence</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Kamiya 12** (Matake Kamiya, is Professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. He was a main author of the report Strategic Implications of an Ongoing Buildup of the US Bases in Guam for Japan, which the Research Institute for Peace and Security published in 2007, ASIANZ Online, 6/20/12, “The Relocation of US Marines from Okinawa to Guam: Strategic Implications for Japan”, http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya | AK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Since the announcement of the ... alliance with the United States.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Guam is vital to all aspects of American primacy and deterrence in East Asia- readiness, deterrence, and power projection, and military readiness</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Caryl 7** (Christian Caryl, Newsweek International, “America's Unsinkable Fleet”, http://www.newsweek.com/id/68465/output/print)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">So why all the fuss ... to being in the headlines.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Specifically, realignment to Guam is vital to prevent conflict over the South China Sea**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Freedberg 12** (Sydney J. Freedberg, national security expert, frequent contributor to the National Journal, founder of Learning From Veterans, AOL Defense, 7/27/12, “Pentagon, Congress Must Break 'Logjam' Over Japan, Guam Bases: CSIS”, http://defense.aol.com/2012/07/27/pentagon-congress-must-break-logjam-over-japan-guam-bases-c)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">"These plans are at the ... the region," the report warns.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Territorial disputes snowball into nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Chakraborty 10** (Tuhin Subhro Chakraborty, Research Associate at Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies (RGICS), his primary area of work is centered on East Asia and International Relations. His recent work includes finding an alternative to the existing security dilemma in East Asia and the Pacific and Geo Political implications of the ‘Rise of China’. Prior to joining RGICS, he was associated with the Centre for Strategic Studies and Simulation, United Service Institution of India (USI) where he examined the role of India in securing Asia Pacific. He has coordinated conferences and workshops on United Nation Peacekeeping Visions and on China’s Quest for Global Dominance. He has written commentaries on issues relating to ASEAN, Asia Pacific Security Dilemma and US China relations. He also contributed in carrying out simulation exercise on the ‘Afghanistan Scenario’ for the Foreign Service Institute (FSI). Tuhin interned at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), Sapru House, wherein he worked on the Rise of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) military budget and its impact on India. He graduated from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi and thereafter he undertook his masters in East Asian Studies from University of Delhi. His areas of interest include China, India-Japan bilateral relations, ASEAN, Asia Pacific security dynamics and Nuclear Issues, The United States Service Institution of India, 2010, “The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight”, http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The first ASEAN Defence Ministers ... turning into a nuclear conflict.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">That draws in great powers and escalates to World War III</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Waldron 97** (Arthur Waldron, is professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an AEI adjunct scholar. His most recent book is From War to Nationalism: China's Turning Point, 1924-1925 (Cambridge, 1996), American Enterprise Institute, 3/1/97, “How Not to Deal with China”, http://www.aei.org/issue/foreign-and-defense-policy/regional/asia/how-not-to-deal-with-china-issue/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which, ... Japan--or the United States.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Nationalism and resource competition make it an existential theater of conflict – short-circuits their rationality warrants**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Gosnell and Orzetti 12** (Rachael Gosnell, Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy, former Combat Systems Officer at U.S. Navy AND Michael Orzetti, Second Lieutenant, U.S. Marine Corps, Master’s Candidate at Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and a 2011 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, Proceedings Magazine—U.S. Naval Institute, April 2012, Vol. 138/4/1310, “Now Hear This – Is Great-Power War Still Possible?”, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-04/now-hear-great-power-war-still-possible | AK)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The Center for Naval Analyses ... U.S. policymakers must plan accordingly.</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Scenario 2 is military readiness</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**It’s key to hegemony**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Perry 6** (William J. “The US Military: Under Strain and at Risk”, January, http://globalsecurity.org/military/library/report/2006/us-military_nsag-report_01252006.htm)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In the meantime, the United ... and respond to some contingencies.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**But concentrating our forces in Japan devastates it**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Meyer 9** (Carlton Meyer, former U.S. Marine Corps officer who participated in military exercises in Korea, has written dozens of articles for military magazines, g2mil, 2009, “Outdated U.S. Military Bases in Japan”, http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Keeping military families, aircraft, and ... far from the Asian mainland.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The plan solves – Guam is comparatively the best staging point to maintain readiness and freedom of action**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**DoN 10** (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Two: Marine Corps Relocation – Guam, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTION”, http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_2/Vol_02_Ch01_Purpose-Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf | AK)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Response Time Basing locations in ... forces that meets all criteria.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Hegemony solves all great power conflict**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Kagan 12** (Robert Kagan, senior fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution and member of the Foreign Policy Advisory Board of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Former Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Co-founder of the Foreign Policy Initiative, adjunct professor of history at Georgetown University, 2/11/12, “Why the World Needs America”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">History shows that world orders, ... order came into being.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Primacy eliminates the only rational incentives for conflict – empirical and statistical data</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Owen 11** (John Owen, Associate professor in the University of Virginia's Department of Politics, recipient of fellowships from the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, and the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, and the Center of International Studies at Princeton, PhD in international relations from Harvard, February 11, 2011, “Don’t Discount Hegemony, www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Andrew Mack and his colleagues ... for liberal democracy remains strong.</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Alliance</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 2 is japan**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Relations are at a defining moment – negotiations are pushing Japan to shoulder the cost of realignment**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Japan Times 12** (Japan Times, 3/25/12, “Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines’ transfer to Guam, http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Washington is pushing Tokyo to ... slashed to just 4,700 marines.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The perception of new funding is key – lack of status quo support sends the wrong signal to Japan</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Bordallo 5/23** (Madeleine Z. Bordallo, congresswoman for the United States, representing Guam, 5/23/2012, “STATEMENT ON THE SENATE CUTS TO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS ON GUAM”, http://bordallo.house.gov/press-release/statement-senate-cuts-military-construction-projects-guam)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Congresswoman Madeleine Z. Bordallo today ... the requirements of section 2207.”</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The plan eases the financial burden on Japan and sends a strong signal of commitment to the buildup</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Calvo 12** (Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, former Senator within the Legislature of Guam, Office of Governor Eddie Baza Calvo, 5/23/12, “NEWS: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start”, http://governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start/ | AK)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The Governor’s main point – it’s ... is serious about this commitment.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Realignment is vital to the alliance – realignment overhauls and ensures robust cooperation on future issues</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Xinhua 12** (Xinhua News, 4/27/12, “U.S. pleased by agreement to relocate 9,000 Marines off Okinawa”, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-04/27/c_131555911.htm | AK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Xinhua) -- U.S. ... to grow on the island.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Realignment is sufficient to solve the alliance</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Talmadge 12** (Eric Talmadge, Associated Press, Navy Times, 2/7/12, “U.S., Japan mull sending 4,700 Marines to Guam”, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/02/ap-us-japan-mull-sending-4700-marines-to-guam-020712/ | AK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Though it leaves the Okinawa ... congested part of the island.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Relocation is the crucial prerequisite to cooperation on all other issues – overcomes alt causes</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Barnes 12** (Julian E. Barnes, Pentagon reporter at the Wall Street Journal, Yuka Hayashi, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, Wall Street Journal, 4/27/12, “U.S. and Japan Agree on Deal To Move Forces”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303990604577368563724460628.html | AK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The U.S. and Japan reached ... effective, and fiscally sustainable agreement."</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Cooperation over the plan is key to an effective alliance – key to regional stability and solving transnational threats</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Nye 8** (Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057 ghs-ef)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Many analysts currently detect malaise ... Japan-U.S. alliance look more promising.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Draws in great powers and causes extinction**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Cheong 2K** (Ching Cheong, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a ... see the destruction of civilization.</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Guam Road Network.**</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 3 is Solvency -**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Guam Road Network is crucial – absent new road infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**DoN 10** (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf | AK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1.1 PURPOSE OF AND NEED ... further detail in Section 2.5.1.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Futenma will be closed regardless of the plan – the two issues have been delinked**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Bloomberg 12** (Sachiko Sakamaki and Takashi Hirokawa, staff writers for Bloomberg, Bloomberg, 2/8/12, “U.S. Troop Shift To Guam May Ease Tensions With Japan Over Okinawa Bases”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-japan-to-announce-troop-relocation-plan.html)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The U.S. and Japan agreed ... at Keio University in Tokyo.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The GRN remains the ONLY barrier to realignment-squo solves other problems</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Kan 12** (Shirley A. Kan is a specialist in Asian Security affairs, “Guam: US Defense Deployments”, March 29 2012, Congressional Research Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf ||DK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Nonetheless, despite Japan’s dispute over ... for the relocation to Guam.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Absent the plan, relocation is impossible</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**ADC 12** (Association of Defense Communities, 5/23/12, “Guam Needs Guarantee for Infrastructure Funding, Governor Says”, http://www.defensecommunities.org/headlines/guam-needs-guarantee-for-infrastructure-funding-governor-says/#)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Despite a reduction in the ... defense authorization bill, reported kuam.com.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Realignment will fail without the plan – road infrastructure is key</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**GAO 8** (Government Accountability Office, “DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Planning Efforts for the Proposed Military Buildup on Guam Are in Their Initial Stages, with Many Challenges Yet to Be Addressed” http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In addition, DOD and government ... significantly with the military buildup.</span>
==<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">1AC Blake</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">**Risk Analysis**</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Advantage 1 is Risk Analysis**</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Status quo government analysis results in policy failure – cost-benefit analysis is key</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Peters 7** (Mary Peters, Chair, et al., National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, Final Report - Volume III: Section 1 - Technical Issues Papers, Analysis of Future Issues and Changing Demands on the System, Part K. Planning and Implementation of Transportation Infrastructure Projects, Commission Briefing Paper 4K-05, “Benefit-Cost Analysis in Public Sector Infrastructure Investment Decisions,” prepared by: Section 1909 Commission Staff, 1-10-2007,http://transportationfortomorrow.com/final_report/volume_3_html/technical_issues_papers/paper8fcc.htm?name=4k_05)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Application of BCA to U.S. … made solely on economic grounds.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The plan is key – only an NIB overcomes political and institutional barriers to effective cost-benefit analysis**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Istrate & Puentes 10** (Emilia Istrate, senior research associate and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Policy Program, The Brookings Institution, Ph.D. Public Policy, George Mason University, specialization in regional economic development, and holds graduate degrees in international studies from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, Austria and the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS); and Robert Puentes, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program and Director of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, M.P., University of Virginia, B.S. Old Dominion University; “Investing for success,” US Infrastructure, Issue 3, Q1 2010,http://www.americainfra.com/article/Investing-for-success/)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">In short, the federal budgeting … reform federal investment in infrastructure.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An NIB is unique – spills over to other federal agencies**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Andersen 11** (Norman Andersen, President and CEO of CG/LA Infrastructure, “The Case for the Kerry-Hutchinson Infrastructure Bank,” Progressive Policy Institute, 3-25-2011, http://progressivepolicy.org/the-case-for-the-kerry-hutchison-infrastructure-bank)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As a small business owner … good deal for every citizen.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">That’s vital to prepare for existential risks – provides a terminal filter to the probability and magnitude of all impacts</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Roberts 8** (Patrick S. Roberts, Fellow with the Program on Constitutional Government at Harvard University, Assistant Professor with the Center for Public Administration and Policy in the School for Public and International Affairs at Virginia Tech, Ph.D. in government from the University of Virginia and former postdoctoral fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, “Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” Homeland Security Affairs, 4(1), Jan 2008, http://www.hsaj.org/pages/volume4/issue1/pdfs/4.1.5.pdf)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Posner makes a persuasive case … which risks to prepare for.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Existential Risks are inevitable-Benefit-cost analysis is key to create useful policies**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Bostrom 8** (Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, “Global Catastrophic Risks,” 2008, http://www.global-catastrophic-risks.com/docs/global-catastrophic-risks.pdf //DK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Other global catastrophic risks …and improving the human condition.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">We control impact framing</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">First, time-frame is irrelevant – multiplying probability by magnitude is the only way to accommodate uncertainty</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Rees 8** (Sir Martin J. Rees, Professor of Cosmology and Astrophysics and Master of Trinity College at the University of Cambridge, Astronomer Royal and Visiting Professor at Imperial College London and Leicester University, Director of the Institute of Astronomy, Research Professor at Cambridge, “Foreward,” Global Catastrophic Risks, Edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan M. Cirkovic, Published by Oxford University Press, ISBN 9780198570509, 2008, p. x-xi)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">These concerns are not remotely … from scientists, policy-makers and ethicists.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Second, Disjunction outweighs conjunction – the aff outweighs their internal link chain on probability**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Yudkowsky 8** (Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, 2008,http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">More generally, people tend to … an awkward and unpoetic-sounding prophecy.</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Economy</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 2 is the economy**</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">It will falter now</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Walter 11/13**—Wall Street Journal (Mathew, Global Economic Growth Seen Slowing, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324439804578115210316458402.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">As emerging-market nations ease … year from 5.5% this year.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Two internal links –**</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">First - stimulus – fractional reserve banking means the plan’s key to solve – we provide a backstop to the fiscal cliff</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Lawrence 11/19**—MS from Stanford (John, "How to Go Over the Fiscal Cliff and Still Avoid Recession", San Diego Free Press, http://sandiegofreepress.org/2012/11/how-to-go-over-the-fiscal-cliff-and-still-avoid-recession/-http:sandiegofreepress.org/2012/11/how-to-go-over-the-fiscal-cliff-and-still-avoid-recession/)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The deal that Congress and …economy on a sounder footing.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The plan restores investor confidence and generates thousands of jobs – their turns are wrong**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Skidelsky & Martin 11** (Robert, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, “For a National Investment Bank”, http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But could a National Investment … pension funds and other long-term investors.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">And, an NIB is critical – the plan is easy on the deficit and doesn’t crowd-out private sector spending</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Skidelsky & Martin 11** (Robert, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, “For a National Investment Bank”, http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">President Obama is in a … bring to the broader economy.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Deficit spending doesn’t lead to inflation, austerity does – their authors are hacks</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Green 12** (Harlan, Broker, Economics @ Santa Barbra, As Editor/Publisher of Popular Economics, February 15, 2012, “Where is the Inflation”, http://populareconomicsweekly.blogspot.com/2012/02/where-is-inflation.html)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">If we would listen to … expect much hiring from them.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Second – supply chain resiliency – infrastructure investments are necessary to remedy status quo decline</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Ehl 12** (Larry, Transportation Issues Daily, 5-15-2012, “Congress Reauthorizes Export-Import Bank, Will It Reauthorize Freight Transportation Funding?”, http://www.transportationissuesdaily.com/congress-reauthorizes-export-import-bank-will-it-reauthorize-freight-transportation-funding/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Earlier today the Senate reauthorized … market share from U.S. ports.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">That’s key to all sectors of the economy – federal approach is key</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Lamb-Hale 10** (Nicole Y., Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce , “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S> Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The Obama Administration is deeply … to which it is connected.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for conflict**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Gartzke 11** (Erik, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF, February 9, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Almost as informative as the … war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**It’s reverse-causal – economic decline magnifies every conflict scenario**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Duncan 12** – chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12 [Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The political battle over America’s … approximately 60 million people.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Strong Statistical support</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Royal 10** — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Less intuitive is how periods … considered ancillary to those views.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**And, alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Barnhizer 6** — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The scale of social needs, … destructive consequences of our behavior.</span>

===<span style="text-align: left;">Plans We've Read</span>=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States based on a National Infrastructure Bank model via the Export-Import Bank.</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Executive Branch of the United States should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States based on a National Infrastructure Bank model via the Export-Import Bank.**</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Expanding the ExIm Bank solves best-efficient funding and avoids politics-current adoption nonuq’s your da’s.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Snyder 11 – editor of Streetblog (Tanya, 10/7/11, “Does the Elusive Infrastructure Bank Already Exist?” http://dc.streetsblog.org/2011/10/07/does-the-infrastructure-bank-of-our-dreams-already-exist/#more-116670)KX</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Last week, three Washington heavy-hitters … can then take credit for).</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Squo investment fails and the plan is key to solve—take outs are wrong</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Crooks and Quadt 12** (Ed,- is vice president at Booz Allen Hamilton Consulting and Michelle,- principal at Booz Allen Hamilton http://gov.aol.com/2012/04/20/rethinking-infrastructure-funding/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">COMMENTARY: For quite some time … get the job done right.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Your turns are wrong and the NIB model is key</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**McConaghy & Kessler 11** --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf ||DK)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">There are too many cost … fully bridge the infrastructure gap.</span>
==<span style="text-align: left;">1AC Pennsbury/Harvard</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Economy</span>=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Contention 1 is the economy</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**It will falter now – government stimulus is necessary**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Harrison 1/14** – founder of Credit Writedowns and a former career diplomat, investment banker and technology executive with over twenty years of business experience, regular economic and financial commentator on BBC World News, CNBC Television, Business News Network, CBC, Fox Television and RT Television, holds an MBA in Finance from Columbia University and a BA in Economics from Dartmouth College (Edward, “Why the US economic crisis is a depression and not a recession?, http://www.creditwritedowns.com/2013/01/hitting-debt-ceiling-us-economic-depression.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">So where are we, then? We…we are headed in this direction.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Two internal links –</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**First – Stimulus – the plan restores investor confidence and generates thousands of jobs – their turns are wrong**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Skidelsky & Martin 11** (Robert, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, “For a National Investment Bank”, [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But could a National Investment Bank also help … pension funds and other long-term investors.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">And, an NIB is critical – the plan is easy on the deficit and doesn’t crowd-out private sector spending</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Skidelsky & Martin 11** (Robert, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, “For a National Investment Bank”, [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">President Obama is in a bind. He … would bring to the broader economy.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Second – Crumbling transportation infrastructure hamstrings growth**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Donohue 11** (Thomas, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, September 8, 2011, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure” , [[http://news.yahoo.com/highway-jobs-via-better-infrastructure-204004682.html]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As Obama and Congress talk jobs, …f anyone is up to the challenge, we are.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for conflict**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gartzke 11** (Erik, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF, February 9, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Almost as informative as the decline in warfare … war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**It’s reverse-causal – economic decline magnifies every conflict scenario**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Duncan 12** – chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12 [Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The political battle over America’s future …t killed approximately 60 million people.</span>
===<span style="text-align: left;">P3’s</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 2 is Public private partnerships:**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Support for EXPANDED P3s is high, but lack the necessary capacity – a national infrastructure bank serves as a critical model and spills over to other federal agencies**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Likosky et al 11** - senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Likosky, Michael. Josh Ishimatsu. Joyce Miller. “RETHINKING 21ST - CENTURY GOVERNMENT: PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND THE NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BANK”. June, 2011. [[http://www.ssrc.org/workspace/images/crm/new_publication_3/%7B2c5cfcc9-6b9e-e011-bd4e-001cc477ec84%7D.pdf]])</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">In an era of severe budgetary constraints, … the laying of fiber-optic cables around the globe.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Although there are P3’s now, they are few and far in between – the plan is key**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Istrate and Puentes 11** (December 9 2011, Emilia Istrate, senior research associate and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Policy Program, The Brookings Institution, Ph.D. Public Policy, George Mason University, specialization in regional economic development, and holds graduate degrees in international studies from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, Austria and the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS); and Robert Puentes, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program and Director of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, M.P., University of Virginia, B.S. Old Dominion University | December 9, 2011 9:59am “A Path to Public Private Partnerships for Infrastructure” http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/the-avenue/posts/2011/12/09-infrastructure-puentes-istrate , nkj)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">So what to do? To paraphrase the … amount of infrastructure PPPs around the world.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The plan sends a key signal to spur effective p3’s**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Puentes 12**--- Senior Fellow, Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings (7/16/2012, Robert, “What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?”[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-avenue/105017/what-would-infrastructure-bank-really-do]], JMP)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Third is that the establishment of ...development of the public-private partnership market.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">That creates a critical spillover – federal action is modeled</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Marks 11**, guest editor of Infrastructure Journal and partner in Milbank Tweed Hadley and McCloy’s Global Project Finance, 4/11/2011</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Allan, “U.S. Infrastructure: Challenges, Politics and Opportunities,” http://www.milbank.com/images/content/6/6/6634/MARKS-US-Infrastructure-Infrastructure-Journal-04-11-2011-.pd.pdf)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The federal governmentthrough TIFIA … best to fund infrastructure investments over the long term.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Scenario 1 is Space:</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Partnerships are key to fill in gaps in government budgets**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Taylor 8** (Tom, Lunar Transportation Systems, Vice president and senior member, “Outreach Development Public Private Partnership for Space Exploration”, [[http://tinyurl.com/Outreach-Development-Public-Pr]])</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Continuing innovation and technology development … operation after NASA moves on to explore the universe.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Space exploration costs are unsustainable now-the private sector is key</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Seck 8/26** (Naomi, “Space race, on a budget, was not how Armstrong saw it,” [[http://phys.org/news/2012-08-space-armstrong.html]], jkim)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">More than 40 years after Neil Armstrong …, which are trying to build cheaper shuttle alternatives.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Low cost orbital access solves extinction – resource wars, accidents, global war**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Collins and Autino 10** - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The major source of social friction, … ameliorate many problems in the world today.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Scenario 2 is Cyber Security:</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The threat of a devastating cyber-attack is real – P3’s are critical to solve cyber security cooperation</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Farrell 11 </span>**- deputy chief of staff for the US Air Force; Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security, Harvard University (“To Improve Cyber-Security, U.S. Needs Cohesive Public-Private Partnership”. February, 2011. http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/February/Pages/ToImproveCyber-Security,USNeedsCohesivePublic-PrivatePartnership.aspx)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">For the Pentagon, which operates … are transported by private companies.”</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Cyberattacks are coming and cause war – destroys the grid</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Habiger 10 </span>**(Eugue, Retired Air Force General, Cyberwarfare and Cyberterrorism, The Cyber Security Institute, 2/1, p. 11-19)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">However, there are reasons to believe that …us significantly more at risk of a major war.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Old defense doesn’t apply---Stuxnet changed the game</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Gross 11**** Michael Joseph, Vanity Fair contributing editor, he covers topics including politics, technology, and national security, has also written extensively for The New York Times, The Boston Globe, and GQ, attended Williams College, and later studied at Princeton Theological Seminary. After graduating, he wrote speeches for Massachusetts Governor William Weld, “A Declaration of Cyber-War”, April, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2011/04/stuxnet-201104?currentPage=all]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Regardless of how well it worked, …, and there is no turning back.</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States based on a National Infrastructure Bank model via the Export-Import Bank.**</span>
===<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**ExIm Bank expansion solves best-fast, politically popular, and budget-neutral**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Schweitzer et al 11** – Howard Schweitzer, the first chief operating officer of the Treasury Department’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, was senior vice president and general counsel of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 2005 to 2008. Mark L. Alderman was a member of the Obama-Biden presidential transition team. They are principals in Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies. Evan Bayh, a former U.S. senator from Indiana, is a senior adviser to Apollo Global Management (Howard Schweitzer, Mark L. Alderman and Evan Bayh, 9/29/11, “We already have the infrastructure bank we need” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/we-already-have-the-infrastructure-bank-we-need/2011/09/27/gIQA59TI8K_story.html)//KX</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Yet even if the president’s proposal … begin rebuilding America and creating jobs.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Your turns are wrong and the NIB model is key**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**McConaghy & Kessler 11** --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]] ||DK)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">There are too many cost overruns … capital to fully bridge the infrastructure gap.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Cost benefit Analysis takes out all your turns</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Istrate & Puentes 10 </span>**(Emilia Istrate, senior research associate and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Policy Program, The Brookings Institution, Ph.D. Public Policy, George Mason University, specialization in regional economic development, and holds graduate degrees in international studies from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, Austria and the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS); and Robert Puentes, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program and Director of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, M.P., University of Virginia, B.S. Old Dominion University; “Investing for success,” US Infrastructure, Issue 3, Q1 2010,[[http://www.americainfra.com/article/Investing-for-success/]])

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In short, the federal budgeting …reform federal investment in infrastructure.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Squo investment fails and the plan is key to solve—take outs are wrong</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Crooks and Quadt 12**** (Ed,- is vice president at Booz Allen Hamilton Consulting and Michelle,- principal at Booz Allen Hamilton http://gov.aol.com/2012/04/20/rethinking-infrastructure-funding/)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">COMMENTARY: For quite some time now, Americans … efficient National Infrastructure Bank we can get the job done right.</span>
==1AC Harvard Round 6 vs BCC BG== 
===**Alliance**=== 
**Contention one is the Alliance –**

**Relations are at a __defining moment__ – negotiations are pushing Japan unilaterally to shoulder the cost of realignment**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan Times 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Japan Times, 3/25/12, “Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines’ transfer to Guam, [[http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html]])</span>

Washington is pushing Tokyo to pay an additional $1 billion ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that this figure be slashed to jFust 4,700 marines.</span>

**Perception is __key__ – the plan __eases__ the financial burden on Japan and sends a strong signal of __commitment__ to an equal buildup**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvo 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, former Senator within the Legislature of Guam, Office of Governor Eddie Baza Calvo, 5/23/12, “NEWS: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start”, [[http://governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start/]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Governor’s main point – </span>it’s ... U.S. government is serious about this commitment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The plan is vital to relations – realignment overhauls the alliance and ensures robust and equal cooperation on future issues**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Xinhua News, 4/27/12, “U.S. pleased by agreement to relocate 9,000 Marines off Okinawa”, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-04/27/c_131555911.htm]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Xinhua) -- U.S. Defense Secretary Leon </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> apologized for the crime, tensions continued to grow on the island.</span>

**And, it resolves the __greatest impediment__ to effective bilateral cooperation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnes 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Julian E. Barnes, Pentagon reporter at the Wall Street Journal, Yuka Hayashi, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, Wall Street Journal, 4/27/12, “U.S. and Japan Agree on Deal To Move Forces”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303990604577368563724460628.html]] | AK)</span>

The U.S. and Japan reached agreement<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> militarily effective, and fiscally sustainable agreement."

**The current alliance is inherently unequal – forces Japan to abandon fellow Asian countries and become a satellite of the United States**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCormack 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gavan, Professor of Pacific and Asian History at Australian National University, degrees in Law, Arts, and History, from the University of Melbourne, former professor at the University of Leeds, La Trobe University, and the University of Adelaide, and coordinator of award-winning journal “Japan Focus”, “Client State: Japan in the American Embrace”, pgs. 56-57)</span>

When the postwar US-Japan relationship was...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was an alliance accomplished by bureaucratic stealth, this was it. </span>

**That constructs Japan as a puppet-state of the United States and prevents them from developing a sense of identity**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kingston 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeff, Director of Asian Studies at Temple University, Japan, “Japan, just a puppet of America?”, July 8th, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fb20070708a1.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prime Minister Shinzo </span>Abe and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> his predecessor Junichiro </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> compelling commentary on our very own Truman Show.</span>

**Strong relations key to cooperate over global warming- Japanese technology advances**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calder 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kent E., director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies. “Pacific Alliance” Page:168. 8/24/2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the present and prospective future ... Asia being the continent most disastrously affected.</span>

**Warming causes extinction - a preponderance of evidence proves it's real, anthropogenic, and outweighs other threats**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deibel 7</span>** — International Relations @ Naval War College (Terry, "Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic of American Statecraft," Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major ... to the continued existence of life on this planet<span class="StyleUnderline">. </span>

===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Guam Road Network.**

=1AC Solvency= 
**Contention 2 is Solvency –**

**The Guam Road Network is __crucial__ – absent new road infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoN 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, [[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.1 PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ROADWAY ... need for the proposed action is explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1. </span>

**The Final EIS solves every other type of infrastructure except transportation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SECNAVY 11</span>** (“Under SECNAV Releases Statement Following Visit To Guam,” Story Number: NNS110120-15, 1/20/2011, [[http://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=58119]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We hope these four pillars demonstrate our determination ...</span> government of Guam.

**A signal of federal commitment is necessary to generate the impetus for further action and unlock unspent funds**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montvel-Cohen 11</span>** (Sharla Torre Montvel-Cohen, 11/7/11, “With Past Appropriations Sitting Unused, Navy Needs Reassurance From Congress To Spend; Guam Projects Remain In Limbo” http://guambuildupnews.com/Buildup-News-Politics/With-Past-Appropriations-Sitting-Unused-Navy-Needs-Reassurance-from-Congress-to-Spend-Guam-Projects-Remain-in-Limbo.html) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">GUAM – </span>A little reassurance<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– not more ... and adjust its staffing plan to match. And so on.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Status quo politics makes it __try or die__ – in-round discussion of pragmatic solutions are critical to reverse trends and jumpstart reform</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis and Williams, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Tashma)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A primary goal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the research reported ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> policymakers have been impatient</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with difficult measurement. </span>

**That’s necessary to counter big business and wealthy lobbies which perpetuate anti poor policies in transportation**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barter 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Coordinator, Sustainable Transport Action Network for Asia and the Pacific </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">A Rahman, UNCHS (Habitat) Regional Symposium on Urban Poverty in Asia, Transport and Urban Poverty in Asia: A Brief Introduction to the Key Issues, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.fukuoka.unhabitat.org/docs/occasional_papers/project_a/06/transport-barter-e.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Recife Declaration includes a strong emphasis ... This is a serious obstacle to a gender-aware approach.</span>

**The state is inevitable and better than the alternative – engaging it is better than rejection**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Habermas 98</span>** [Jürgen Habermas teaches philosophy at the University of Frankfurt, “The European Nation-State: On the Past and Future of Sovereignty and Citizenship,” Public Culture10(2): 397–416]

Talk of overcoming the nation-state is ... extends beyond the level of the nation-state<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**The state is inevitable and an __indispensable__ part of the solution to warming** 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Eckersley 4</span>** Robyn, Reader/Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Melbourne, “The Green State: Rethinking Democracy and Sovereignty”, MIT Press, 2004, Google Books, pp. 3-8
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">While acknowledging the basis for this antipathy toward the nation- state, </span> ... potentially more significant ally in the green cause<span style="font-size: 4pt;">.17</span>

**Simulation and institutional deliberation are __valuable__ and motivate __effective responses__ to climate risks**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Marx et al 7</span>** (Sabine M, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions (CRED) @ Columbia University, Elke U. Weber, Graduate School of Business and Department of Psychology @ Columbia University, Benjamin S. Orlovea, Department of Environmental Science and Policy @ University of California Davis, Anthony Leiserowitz, Decision Research, David H. Krantz, Department of Psychology @ Columbia University, Carla Roncolia, South East Climate Consortium (SECC), Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering @ University of Georgia and Jennifer Phillips, Bard Centre for Environmental Policy @ Bard College, “Communication and mental processes: Experiential and analytic processing of uncertain climate information”, 2007, http://climate.columbia.edu/sitefiles/file/Marx_GEC_2007.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Based on the observation that experiential and ... process of individual and group decision-making.</span>

=<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="text-align: left;">T</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Maintenance</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**A. “Transport investment” must be new infrastructure – excludes repairs and maintenance**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Collenette 99** (Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual reporthttp://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf BK)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Whether made by business or government, ... on existing infrastructure, machinery and equipment.</span>
==<span style="text-align: left;">DAs</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">1NC Elections - Georgetown</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Obama winning now but its close – THE ONLY WAY THAT OBAMA WILL LOSE THE ELECTION IS IF HE MAKES A POLICY MISTAKE**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Lux 9/26** (Mike Lux, Huff Post Politics, “Winning the Election -- And a Successful Second Term,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/mike-lux/democrat-house-campaigns_b_1916069.html?utm_hp_ref=elections-2012)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I have been in politics ... the future of the country.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><<<SPECIFIC LINK>>></span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Independents are the largest voting bloc – new spending kills support</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Schoen 2/8** (Douglas Schoen, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-2012, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p.http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Neither party focuses onissues that ... 62 percent to 24 percent.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Romney election results in Iran strikes --- Obama reelection defuses the situation with diplomacy**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Daily Kos, 4/16/2012** (President Obama versus Romney on Iran, p. http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">3. Approach to foreign policy .., people with needless terrorism alerts.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Iran strikes escalates to a nuclear world war.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Chossudovsky 11**, 12/26/2011 (Michel, Preparing to attack Iran with Nuclear Weapons, Global Research, p. http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=28355)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">An attack on Iran would ... part of the Middle East.</span>
===<span style="text-align: left;">1NC Immigration Reform - Pennsbury</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Immigration will pass---it’s top of the docket and PC’s key**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gomez 1/25** Alan, USA Today, "Obama, members of Congress start immigration push", 2013, www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2013/01/25/obama-immigration-congress-legislation/1865129/</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Obama has vowed to make immigration ... it's clear that President Obama is determined to fix our long broken immigration system.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;"><<<LINK>>></span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**LAT 12** (11/9/2012, Carol J. Williams, “Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform,” </span><span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">[[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]]</span><span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">"Comprehensive immigration reform ... bigger plus than not," he said.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Relations averts South Asian nuclear war</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Schaffer-Spring 2** --- (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Washington's increased interest in India since the late 1990s ... depends critically on good relations with theUnited States.</span>

===Immigration Reform - Harvard=== 
**Immigration will pass---but it will be a fight**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Finnegan 2/15</span>** William, New Yorker, "The Republic Immigration Dilemma", 2013, www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/comment/2013/02/the-republican-immigration-dilemma.html
On Tuesday night, <span class="UnderlineChar">the …</span> checks, is, in any event, hardly amnesty.)


**PC’s key to successful immigration bill**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chertoff 2/14</span>** Michael, Former Secretary of Homeland Security in the Bush Administration, "Obama's immigration agenda", 2013, www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/michael-chertoff-obamas-immigration-agenda/2013/02/14/b07f85aa-763b-11e2-aa12-e6cf1d31106b_story.html
The <span class="UnderlineChar">balanced reform</span> outlined <span class="UnderlineChar">… is no better model for Obama</span>.

**<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><LINK></span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Comprehensive reform is key to Latin American stability</span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Gittelson 9</span>** (Citation: 23 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics & Pub. Pol'y 115 2009 THE CENTRISTS AGAINST THE IDEOLOGUES: WHAT ARE THE FALSEHOODS THAT DIVIDE AMERICANS ON THE ISSUE OF COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM Robert Gittelson has been a garment manufacturer in the Los Angeles area for over twenty-five years. His wife, Patricia Gittelson, is an immigration attorney with offices in Van Nuys and Oxnard, California. Robert also works closely with Patricia on the administrative side of her immigration practice. Throughout his career, Mr. Gittelson has developed practical, first-hand experience in dealing with the immigration issues that are challenging our country today.

In the alternative, should we … in our battle to secure our southern border?

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The impact is extinction</span>**
<span class="CiteChar">Manwaring 5</span> (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, venezuela’s hugo chávez, bolivarian socialism, and asymmetric warfare, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)

President Chávez also understands that …<span class="UnderlineChar"> security, peace, and prosperity.65</span>

===<span style="text-align: left;">Oil DA</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Prices high and stable – Gaza truce and peace**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**IOL 11/22** (IOL, owned and run by Independent Newspapers. The South African newspaper group publishes 15 national and regional newspapers, and several Cape-based community newspapers, “Oil prices stable after Gaza truce”, 11/22/12, http://www.iol.co.za/business/markets/commodities/oil-prices-stable-after-gaza-truce-1.1428940#.UMyp_G9qQQF)//AL</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">World oil prices steadied on Thursday ... said Sucden brokers analyst Myrto Sokou.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**That causes Saudi Arabia to flood the oil market and collapse prices**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**MORSE AND RICHARDS 2002** (Edward L. Morse is Executive Adviser at Hess Energy Trading Company and was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy in 1979-81. James Richard is a portfolio manager at Firebird Management, an investment fund active in eastern Europe, Russia, and Central Asia, Foreign Affairs, March/April)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A simple fact explains this conclusion: ... mainly to non-OPEC countries.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">And the plan hurts oil prices even without a flood</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**ZAKARIA 2004** - PhD in political science from Harvard and former managing editor of Foreign Affairs (Fareed, “Don’t Blame the Saudis,” 9/6, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">[[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/090604.html]]</span><span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The largest ingredient in current oil prices ... allows them to be classified as trucks.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**That crushes the Russian economy and undermines support for the regime**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**KRAMER 12** – New York Times writer and editor (ANDREW E. “Higher Oil Prices to Pay for Campaign Promises” New York Times March 16, 2012 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/17/business/global/vladimir-putins-big-promises-need-fueling-by-high-oil-prices.html?_r=2?pagewanted=print Putin Needs ajones)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">MOSCOW — In American presidential politics, ... never part of Mr. Putin’s stump speech.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Nuclear war</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**FILGER 2009** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In Russia historically, economic health and ... Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>
==<span style="text-align: left;">CPs</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">XO CP</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The President of the United States should <<<PLAN>>>.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Observation 1: Competition**</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">A. The federal government includes all three branches -- prefer a definition from legal code</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**US Code no date** (“United States Federal Government Law & Legal Definition,” http://definitions.uslegal.com/u/united-states-federal-government/)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The United States Federal Government … the US and iii) Judiciary.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Lousiana House of Representatives 5** (http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Resolution A legislative instrument that … introduction nor to governor's veto.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;"><<<NORMAL MEANS COMPETITION FOR SPECIFIC AFFS>>></span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Observation 2: Solvency**</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">XO gives prez power over transportation, environmental procedure, and solves funding</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Klein 12** (Joseph Klein, Harvard-trained lawyer and the author of Global Deception: The UN’s Stealth Assault on America’s Freedom and the new book, Lethal Engagement: Barack Hussein Obama, the United Nations & Radical Islam, March 19, 2012, “ther Obama Power Grab,” http://frontpagemag.com/2012/03/19/another-obama-power-grab/2/#bio)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The Obama administration issued a … and facilities, including construction materials.”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Each order is key – Obama has passed fewer orders than any other president but has been upfront to get the power of perception from each one**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Dorning 12** (Mike Dorning, staff writer for Bloomberg, March 1, 2012, “Obama's New Campaign Weapon: His Pen,” http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-03-01/obamas-new-campaign-weapon-his-pen)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">A tally of executive orders ... the slogan “We Can’t Wait.”</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Strong presidential powers are key to prevent cyberterror**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Kastenberg 09** (Lieutenant Colonel Joshua E, B.A., University of California, Los Angeles (1990); J.D., Marquette University (1996); LL.M., Georgetown University (2003)) is the Staff Judge Advocate, 332d Air Expeditionary Wing, Balad Air Base, Iraq. Prior to his current assignment, he served as Staff Judge Advocate, Joint Task Force-Global Network Operations, a standing joint task force under the command of United States Strategic Command. Under the Unified Command Plan, it is the sole cyber-defense operational command for the Department of Defense. He is a member of the Wisconsin Bar, “CYBERLAW EDITION: NON-INTERVENTION AND NEUTRALITY IN CYBERSPACE: AN EMERGING PRINCIPLE IN THE NATIONAL PRACTICE OF INTERNATIONAL LAW”, 64 A.F. L. Rev. 43, Lexis)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Of all the recent legal ... be necessary to national policy.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Cyberattacks are coming and cause war – destroys the grid**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Habiger 10** (Eugue, Retired Air Force General, Cyberwarfare and Cyberterrorism, The Cyber Security Institute, 2/1, p. 11-19)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">However, there are reasons to believe ... making us significantly more at risk of a major war.</span>

===Canada CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should ratify a treaty to recognize Canadian territorial claims to the Northwest Passage.**

**Recognition of Canadian Sovereignty in the NWP is the only way to solve the aff in the short term – increases joint icebreaking capabilities and naval power by giving the US powers in Canadian waters**
**<span class="CiteChar">McEvoy 12</span>** (Joshua McEvoy, staff writer for geopolitical monitor, 9/10/12, “Reluctant Allies: Canada, the US, and the Northwest Passage,” http://www.geopoliticalmonitor.com/reluctant-allies-canada-the-us-and-the-northwest-passage-4725/)

As University of British Columbia Arctic … the Arctic would serve long-term interests.

===Free Market CP=== 
**The United States federal government should:**

**--- devolve all control over the plan’s infrastructure to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on the plan’s infrastructure to the states**

**--- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in the plan’s infrastructure**

**--- grant states permission to transfer ownership of the plan’s infrastructure to the private sector**

**Solves the case --- the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization --- this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards 11** --- director of tax policy studies at Cato, before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]</span>

Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing The U.S. … has done with very favorable results.31

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston 10** --- applied micro-economist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]</span>, specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System, p. 2-3)//DH

Do the current problems with … significantly improve the system’s performance.

==<span style="text-align: left;">Ks</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Security K</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Welcome to hypermilitarism – “Solving hegemony” is just a paranoid grab for total security that leads to future militaristic interventions**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Rule 10** (James B, PhD Harvard, MA Oxford, BA Brandeis, “The Military State of America and the Democratic Left”, Dissent Vol. 57 No 1, Winter)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The invasion of Iraq was ... upon its own domestic life.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The pursuit of security locks us into an endless cycle of violence in the name of apocalypse prevention</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Coviello 1** (Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Perhaps. But to claim that ... can scarcely be done without.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The alternative is to vote negative to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question – framing comes first**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Cheeseman 96** (Graeme, Senior Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">This goal is pursued in ... to understand them, and why?</span>

===<span style="text-align: left;">Willson K</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Policy acting without prior, deep public dialogue is steeped in instrumental rationality. State action shatters social justice and true democracy.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Willson 1** (Richard Willson is a professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning, California State Polytechnic University, Transportation 28: 1–31, 2001 – http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Purpose of planning. The purpose ... part of the planning activity.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Thus the alternative: Reject the 1AC’s instrumental and scientific rationality and embrace communicative rationality.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Second- the alt unlocks solvency.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Willson 1** (Richard Willson is a professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning, California State Polytechnic University, Transportation 28: 1–31, 2001 – http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">For planning, however, gridlock is ... reason based on consensual discussion.1</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Third- Without the alt, extinction is inevitable. Only the alt can spillover and ensure transition**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Gare 3** (Arran, Swinburne University social sciences professor, Swinburne University, Melbourne, Australia, Ph.D. from Murdoch University, "Beyond Social Democracy? Beyond Social Democracy?" Democracy and Nature, 9(3), Nov 2003, via EBSCO database)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In the new order, the state’s role, along ... ecological conditions of their existence.</span>
===Bataille K=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Transportation infrastructure makes life devoid of death – this strategy is ultimately responsible for our repression of our transgressive use of excess</span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Merle 09</span>** (Julien Merle, Faculty of Architecture, Delft University of Technology, “Bataille’s Writings: (Un-)framing the transgression of architecture’s limits,” 2009, Edinburgh Architecture Research, http://ace.caad.ed.ac.uk/ear2009/upload/pdfs/015-Merlex.pdf)

For Bataille, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">architecture is …</span>disharmonious, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">as an economic loss. </span>

**Sacrificial theater offers a moment of transfiguration. Risk this intimate encounter with death to give your life meaning beyond mere existence and duration.**
**Liran <span class="CiteChar">Razinsky 2009 </span>**[The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, //SubStance// #119, Vol. 38, no. 2, 2009]

Thus we see that the stakes … inscribe it in the general order of things.

===<span style="text-align: left;">Strats</span>=== 
====<span style="text-align: left;">Georgetown</span>==== 
=====<span style="text-align: left;">Round 1 - Centennial HK (Climate Adaptation)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: Elections, XO CP, Willson K, Case</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Willson K, Case</span>
=====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Round 3 - Weston CT (NextGen)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: Elections, XO CP, Security K, Case</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Elections, Case</span>
=====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Round 6 - River Hill SS (Racial Deconstruction)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: Agonism FW, Cap K, Case</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Cap K</span>
====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Blake</span>==== 
=====<span style="text-align: left;">Round 1 - Greenhill DJ (HTF)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: Deficits PIC, Fiscal Cliff DA, T - financing, Willson K</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: T</span>
=====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Round 4 - Rowland Hall St. Marks BG (CCS)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: Albedo CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, T - pipelines, Bataille K</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Albedo CP, CO2 good turns, Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
=====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Round 6 - Maine East MK (HSR)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: XO, Fiscal Cliff DA, Willson K</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, case</span>
====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The 10th Annual Pennsbury Falcon Invitational in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania</span>==== 
=====<span style="text-align: left;">Round 2 - Strath Haven GS (Inland Waterways)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: T-maintenance, XO CP, Immigration Ptx DA, Oil DA, Food Prices bad, Stim bad</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: XO CP, Immigration ptx DA</span>
=====<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">Round 4 - Broad Run (Inland Waterways)</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1NC: T-plan flaw/maintenance, XO CP, Free Market CP, Immigration Ptx DA, Stim bad</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Free Market CP, Immigration Ptx DA</span>
====Harvard==== 

=====Round 2 - Alpharetta RH (Icebreakers)===== 
1NC: T-Vehicles/in, Immigration Ptx DA, Canada CP, XO CP, Renewables DA

2NR: Canada CP, Immigration Ptx DA

=====Round 4 - Pine Crest LM (Hydrogen Fuel Cell Buses)===== 
1NC: T-Vehicles, Free Market CP, Bataille K, Immigration Ptx DA, SMR Coal DA

2NR: Free Market CP, Synoptic Delusion

=====Round 5 - Berkely Prep DS (NIB)===== 
1NC: T/I PIC, France CP, Immigration Ptx DA, T-NIB isn't topical, Stimulus DA

2NR: Immigration Ptx DA, Case

=====Round 7 - Blake NS (LPOE's)===== 
1NC: T-LPOE, Free Market CP, Terror Talk K, Immigration Ptx DA

2NR: Terror Talk K

===<span style="text-align: left;">Additional Cites</span>=== 
====<span style="text-align: left;">Round 6 GDS Neg Vs. River Hill SS</span>==== 
=====<span style="text-align: left;">1NC</span>===== 
======<span style="text-align: left;">Framework</span>====== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Switch side debate is necessary for the creation of an agonistic debate community – the alternative is antagonism**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Arendt 5** (Hannah. The Promise of Politics. P. 18-19)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">More than his friend … which no rulership is needed.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The Aff’s embrace of identity politics is naïve – true equity requires Agonistic pluralism</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Deylami 4** (Shirin S. Deylami, Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, “(Un)Closeting Democracy: the Limits and Possibilities of Legalism in the Pursuit of Queer Politics”, AllAcademic)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Political Recognition and …unfair “special” protections. 13</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The fiction of harmony and universal inclusion within political spaces has lead to mass genocides, war, and absolute exclusion – acknowledging ideological distinctions through agonism is the only way to avoid inevitable destruction**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Rasch 5** (William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle South Atlantic Quarterly 104 (2) http://saq.dukejournals.org/cgi/reprint/104/2/253.pdf)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Schmitt, then, starts … nightmares of absolute exclusion.</span>
======<span style="text-align: left;">Cap K</span>====== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Whiteness theory improperly blames the white working class for racism, while ignoring overwhelming historical evidence that capital creates racism to discipline both classes. Only broad struggle against capitalism can dismantle racism**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Smith 6** (Sharon, Author of Women and Socialism: Essays on Women’s Liberation, “Race, class, and "whiteness theory"” International Socialist Review, Issue 46, http://www.isreview.org/issues/46/whiteness.shtml bb)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">But who is responsible … labor movement is to succeed.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Race framing directly tradesoff with a prioritization of class—vote negative to move past the politics of racial difference into a radical critique of the material conditions of racial oppression**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**McLaren and D’Anniballe 4** (Peter, Professor at the Graduate School of Education at UCLA, and Valerie “Class Dismissed? Historical materialism and the politics of ‘difference’”, Philosophy of Education Society of Australasia)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A radical political economy … fundamental agent of change.</span>

======<span style="text-align: left;">Case</span>====== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Turn—claiming this round is key to activism crushes their project**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Atchison and Panetta 9** – *Director of Debate at Trinity University and **Director of Debate at the University of Georgia (Jarrod, and Edward, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed., 2009, p. 317-334)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Debates as Sites of Community … collaboration, consensus, and coalition building.</span>

=====<span style="text-align: left;">2NC</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Role of the Ballot – The goal of critical pedagogy must primarily be to criticize the material conditions of capitalism**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**McLaren 5** (Peter, Professor at the Graduate School of Education at UCLA, Teaching against global capitalism and the new imperialism: a critical pedagogy, pg. 6-11)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As U.S. imperialism sinks its … and incarnations of imperialism worldwide.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Racism first obscures capitalism**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Hooks 2K** (prof of English city college 2000 bell where we stand: class matters page 5-6)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Racial solidarity, particularly the solidarity … is not a class-free society.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The affirmative’s passionate criticism of debate glosses over one fundamental problem—they have to be a debater to make this criticism. Like a husband who divorces his wife, but then acts like normal, enjoying their distance but shirking all responsibility. They use the activity to mediate their enjoyment of debate so they can enjoy it without the anxiety that could drive them to make it truly better, or even leave the activity**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Žižek 97**, Director of Humanities at the Birkbeck Institute, 97 [Slavoj, The Plague of Fantasies, p. 113-116]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">At the level of elementary … which sustains his disavowed passivity.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Intersectionality has historically footnoted the criticism of Capitalism—only a PRIORITIZATION of class struggle has the potential of universalizing our form of politics—all other forms of oppression are merely derivative**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**McLaren and D’Anniballe 4** (Peter, Professor at the Graduate School of Education at UCLA, and Valerie “Class Dismissed? Historical materialism and the politics of ‘difference’”, Philosophy of Education Society of Australasia)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In stating this, we need … of women’s labor. (Kovel, 2002, pp. 123–124)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Capitalism is the root cause of racism – the aff only masks the problems of racial disparity**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**LRP 2** (Statement of the League for the Revolutionary Party, “Black Liberation Through Socialist Revolution!” LRP-COFI.ORG, August 16, http://lrp-cofi.org/archive/reparations.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">American capitalism always has been … mass of people of color.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Racism originated with and is supported by Capitalism**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Taylor 2** (Alex, Scottish National Party Candidate and writer for Socialist Worker, 11/22, The Roots of Racism, http://www.socialistworker.org/2002-2/431/431_08_Racism.shtml)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Rather, racism originated with capitalism … traces of exploitation and racism.</span>
**<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">You have an ethical obligation to reject capitalism – it’s costs are beyond calculation</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Daly 4** (Glyn Daly, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northhampton, Conversations with Zizek p. 14-16)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">For Zizek it is imperative … forms of consumerism and lifestyle.</span>

=====<span style="text-align: left;">1NR</span>===== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Debate should be an academic exercise where the aff plays the role of the federal government and the Negative negates the plan. This creates a competitive space to imagine new ideas and translate them into practical suggestions—key to emancipatory change**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Andrews 6** (Peter, Consulting Faculty Member at the IBM Executive Business Institute in Palisades, New York, Executive Technology Report, August, Www-935.Ibm.Com/Services/Us/Bcs/Pdf/G510-6313-Etr-Unlearn-to-Innovate.Pdf)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">High stakes … of a new idea or approach).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Policy involvement is inevitable- we need to proactively engage in the language of policy making for movements to be effective**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Themba-Nixon 2K**, Makani. Executive Director of The Praxis Project, Former California Staffer, Colorlines. Oakland: Jul 31, 2000.Vol.3, Iss. 2; pg. 12</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">The flourish and … committed to making it so.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Political engagement in potentially flawed discourses is paramount – refusal to directly engage admittedly corrupt politics mirrors the practice of German leftists in the 1930’s – a practice that led directly to the rise of Hitler**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5; text-align: left;">**Wallace 96** (William, Prof. – London School of Economics, Review of International Studies, "Truth and Power, Monks and Technocrats: Theory and Practice in International Relations", 22:3, p. 307-309)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But if we cling …rather than to undermine it.32</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>