[[toc]]
=====Aff cites email: kvs6511@yahoo.com===== 

Neg cites email: adhiesp@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
1AC


=1AC – Mass Transit= 
==Inherency== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Our current transportation system is unequal and separated along both class and racial lines as the automobile expands, and the key solution, mass transit, is being ignored</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Quami, 11</span>** (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lexer Quami, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.urbanhabitat.org/18-2/intro|Autumn Awakening]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> | Vol. 18, No. 2– 2011 “Transportation Equity a Key to W `inning Full Civil Rights” (Lexer Quamie is a Counsel for the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights)</span>
Equity in transportation means a system that works for everyone and at many different levels
AND
advance a public health agenda by participating in the policy-making process.
==Contentions== 
===1. Automobility=== 
====Automobility causes alienation from the outside as well internal diremption==== 
(Joshua <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fischel</span>, Senior Project Manager at Thomson Reuters, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> “EDUCATION AFTER MODERNITY: DEWEY, DAVIDSON, AND THE PROSPECTS FOR OVERCOMING DIREMPTION”)
To be in communion with others while you’re driving in an automobile seems fatuous in
AND
together the shared world that people participate together in what Hegel called love.
====Diremption sets the stage for violence culminating in a structural genocide==== 
(Joshua <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fischel</span>, Senior Project Manager at Thomson Reuters, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> “EDUCATION AFTER MODERNITY: DEWEY, DAVIDSON, AND THE PROSPECTS FOR OVERCOMING DIREMPTION”)
Ultimately, Auschwitz is made possible because the world lacks love. Adorno (1967
AND
, what would education have to look like after Modernity, after diremption?
===2. Neoliberal Racism=== 
====<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The current federal posture reflects a brand of neoliberal racism that slashes services to those most dependent on public transit in favor of an elite class resulting in violence against the minorities. </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stephanie </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Farmer</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2011</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
Public transportation, as one crucial component of a city's transportation network, enables the
AND
to reduce the effects of hyper sociospatial racial segregation (Wilson, 1990).
====<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neoliberalism and racism are a deadly double edged sword: As profit takes priority over people’s lives, those lives are sacrificed and lose all their value and dignity. But transit apartheid is not inevitable; social justice could once again be a central aim of transit policy.</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Joe </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grengs</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2005</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
Imagine a bus stop in a typical working<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>class neighbourhood of inner<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>city
AND
has at the same time encouraged a shift in emphasis within the transit programme

====<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We must reject every single instance of racism to have any hope of one day breaking it down.</span>==== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Joseph</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barndt</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Co-Director, Crossroads, DISMANTLING RACISM,</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">1991</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, p. 155-156</span>
The limitations imposed on people of color by poverty, subservience, and powerlessness are
AND
of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue.

====<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space can be designed to promote interaction or competition. A neoliberal agenda destroys places for unique democratic engagement, we must refuse to turn a blind eye and instead face the environmental degradation and warfare that will become inevitable without the aff </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Harvey</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
At times of crisis, the irrationality of capitalism becomes plain for all to see
AND
class that am as its surrogate. is now actually seen to rule.

====And all the everyday violence in these issues must be prioritized in your calculations. They are the largest proximate cause of war- creates priming that psychologically structures the worst atrocities==== 
**__Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4__** (Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)
(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)

This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this
AND
including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">This unending war – invisible even to those it targets – is //worse than nuclear war//</span>**
Abu-Jamal 98<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Mumia, activist, “A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE” Column Written 9/19/98 , [[http://www.angelfire.com/az/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html]])</span>

We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation
AND
the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world.
==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thus, The plan; The United States Federal Government should substantially invest in a mass transit system</span>== 
===3. Solvency=== 
====Providing mass transit to the general public is the ONLY way to resolve the issues of environmental racism and discrimination==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sanchez at al 03</span>
(Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities” DM)
The reauthorization of the act provides Congress with an enormous opportunity to incorporate provisions that
AND
of these efforts are most effective and most likely to be successfully replicated.


====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND we implement best, federal government key as they have to repent for their previous mistakes. Mass transit provides a unique opportunity to build coalition between citizens and the federal government, that is key to challenging environmental racism. </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weir 01 </span>
(Margaret Weir, Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago in 1986. Her research and teaching fields include American political development, urban politics and policy, political sociology, and comparative studies of the welfare state, “<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">METROPOLITAN COALITION-BUILDING STRATEGIES” DM)</span>
Proclaiming that “we are all in it together,” urban advocates have for the
AND
bases of cooperation. The movement for “smart growth with equity” attem
pts such a redefinition of interests.6 The aim is to unite advocates for
AND
a direct stake in regional initiatives to insert equity concerns in transportation decisions.
====The federal government has a unique constitutional and moral obligation to extend the right of movement to lower classes, no other actor can solve.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dombroski 5 </span>(Matthew A., Columbia University Law School, J.D., Columbia Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 2 (Mar., 2005), pp. 503-536, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4099316)AH]]

Of course, the right to intrastate travel and the right to interstate travel need
AND
at least as great as the right to interstate travel. Various other sources
support the simple, unexamined assertion that the liberty to travel across state borders is
AND
right to move freely distinct from the right to interstate and intrastate travel.

====Creating a new mass transit system will foster a broader acceptance of people from every walk of life, and break down the reign of the automobile and the physical separation of classes for everyone– not just those who use the transit==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frug 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Gerald E Frug, Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law, Harvard University, “CITY SERVICES”, LexisNexis, 4/98, RM)</span>
Highway maintenance also raises broader issues than the need to fill potholes. Fixing the
AND
from the feeling of security I have associated with expanding cities' emergency services.

**The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible**
**__Simmons 99__** William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6
Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the
AND
left to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure

===4. Quality Control=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First is the interpretation: As policymakers the judges should evaluate only what is in the realm of probable not what is possible, because as we all know, anything is possible. Rescher in 83: </span>

Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983

A probability is a number between zero and one. Now numbers between zero and
AND
satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.
====Placing preservation of biological life above all other values internalizes oppression==== 
**Gur-Ze’ev** (Faulty of Education @ University of Haifa) **2**
(Ilan, Bildung and Critical Theory facing Post-modern Education, Journal of Philosophy of Education, 36:3, 391-408, available @ http://construct.haifa.ac.il/~ilangz/)

In their Dialectic of Enlightenment Adorno and Horkheimer argue that by the mid-twentieth
AND
to oppress and exploit in the most efficient manner; oppression is internalized.

# Stop conjuring bogeymen – failing to adhere to our standards creates policies based on fear rather than reason.
Stern in 99

Jessica Stern, Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and former National Security Council Member “The Ultimate Terrorists” 1999 http://www.hup.harvard.edu/features/steult/excerpt.html

Poisons have always been seen as unacceptably cruel. Livy called poisonings of enemies "secret crimes." Cicero referred to poisoning as "an atrocity." But why do poisons evoke such dread? This question has long puzzled political scientists and historians. One answer is that people's perceptions of risk often do not match reality: that <span class="DebateUnderline">what we dread most is</span> often <span class="DebateUnderline">not what actually threatens us most</span>**__.__**
When you got up this morning, you were exposed to serious risks at nearly
AND
mushroom cloud probably stays long in viewers' consciousness as an image of fear.


# It’s time to kill the bogeyman – a failure to do so creates decisional paralysis Rescher continues…


Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983

The stakes are high, the potential benefits enormous. (And so are the
AND
and a bad one). The price of absolute security is absolute stultification.

C. **Impact comparisons aren’t neutral. Stories of risk are tipped profoundly in favor of entrenched interests. Their framework produces all the impacts they read.**
**__Renn 08__** (Ortwin, Professor of Environmental Sociology and Technology Assessment at the University of Stuttgart, Risk Governance, 2008, p. 28)
Giddens's analysis of reflexive modernity is closely related to his 'structuration' theory (Giddens,
AND
methodology that is aimed at legitimizing ubiquitous exposure of society to incalculable risks.


D. Fairness – a failure to use our standards allows logical leaps using bad links all converging at the altar of…extinction

E. Education – by adhering to this high standard of argumentation, we elevate the educational value of all arguments allowing for the most real world appraisal of actions
F. **Establishing a framework in which life is worth living is a prerequisite to ethical decision-making**
**__Isaac 96__** (Jeffrey, Professor of Political Science, Indiana University, Bloomington, American Political Science Review, March 1996 v90 n1 p61(13))
Action, then, represents a kind of civic initiative whereby humans resist degradation and
AND
dignity - and not out of an existential attraction to limit-situations.


====No extinction—humanity resilient==== 
Bruce <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tonn</span>, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2005</span>, “Human Extinction Scenarios,” [[@http://www.budapestfutures.org/|www.budapestfutures.org/]] downloads/abstracts/Bruce% 20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)
The human species faces numerous threats to its existence. These include global climate
AND
. Humans appear to be resilient to extinction with respect to single events.
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]