=*NEW WIKI LINK*= 

[[Hydrogen Advantages WWLR|It kept crashing when i tried to edit, use this hyperlink]]

[[toc]]

reddy66@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Aviation AFF</span>== 

===1AC UT=== 


Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase investment for liquid hydrogen fuel compatible airport infrastructure at civil airports in the United States.

===Contention One is Emission Trading Scheme=== 

Investment in emissions reduction technologies are key to certainty and compliance with ETS
Jane A. **Leggett**, Specialist in Energy and Environmental Policy**, et al.,** Bart Elias Specialist in Aviation Policy Daniel T. Shedd Legislative Attorney, 6-11-**12**, ~~["Aviation and the European Union~’s Emission Trading Scheme," Congressional Research Service, [[http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc87221/m1/1/high_res_d/R42392_2012Jun11.pdf-http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc87221/m1/1/high_res_d/R42392_2012Jun11.pdf]]~~] E. Liu
The EU Commission has identified hundreds of U.S. aircraft operators that fly
AND
the risk to businesses that invest in advanced technologies that help reduce emissions.


===Scenario One is Trade=== 

Inability to cut aviation emissions causes disputes over ETS with Europe to go to the WTO – The US loses and its trade leadership is crushed
Nigel **Purvis**, founder, President and CEO of Climate Advisers, a Washington, DC-based consultancy specializing in U.S. climate change policy **and** Samuel **Grausz**, associate at Climate Advisers and manages its energy prac - tice. Samuel also holds a research position at Resources for the Future, 10-11-**12**, ~~["Air Supremacy The Surprisingly Important Dogfight over Climate Pollution from International Aviation," [[http://www.gmfus.org/archives/air-supremacy-the-surprisingly-important-dogfight-over-climate-pollution-from-international-aviation/-http://www.gmfus.org/archives/air-supremacy-the-surprisingly-important-dogfight-over-climate-pollution-from-international-aviation/]]~~] E. Liu
Risky. Unless Europe backs down or the United States blinks, the aviation dispute
AND
United States~’ ability to expand trade opportunities for U.S. companies.


Regardless of the decision, the ruling fractures WTO balance and legitimacy
Nigel **Purvis**, founder, President and CEO of Climate Advisers, a Washington, DC-based consultancy specializing in U.S. climate change policy **and** Samuel **Grausz**, associate at Climate Advisers and manages its energy prac - tice. Samuel also holds a research position at Resources for the Future, 10-11-**12**, ~~["Air Supremacy The Surprisingly Important Dogfight over Climate Pollution from International Aviation," [[http://www.gmfus.org/archives/air-supremacy-the-surprisingly-important-dogfight-over-climate-pollution-from-international-aviation/-http://www.gmfus.org/archives/air-supremacy-the-surprisingly-important-dogfight-over-climate-pollution-from-international-aviation/]]~~] E. Liu
Finally, this would be a no-win case for the WTO. With
AND
of WTO appellate body judges, to come up with a meaningful solution.


US trade leadership, multilateral institutions and liberalization are necessary to maintain global cooperation and peace
Supachai **Panitchpakdi**, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, 2-26-**04**, ~~["American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?," Speech, National Press Club — Washington D.C., http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm~~]
The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America~’s wider
AND
constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.


===Scenario Two is Relations=== 


Inability to resolve the ETS issue causes penalties that escalate to tariffs and a trade war
**Bloomberg**, 9-25-**12**, ~~["U.S. Airlines See EU Emissions Bill as Forcing Talks," Brian Wingfield, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-airlines-see-eu-emissions-bill-as-forcing-talks.html-http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-airlines-see-eu-emissions-bill-as-forcing-talks.html]]~~] E. Liu
"Our goal is to give the administration as many tools as possible to limit
AND
she said. "That where you would see the trade war erupt."


ETS disputes are highly likely to escalate – Economic distortions crush the European economy and relations with the US while undermining global trade and US soft power
Harold H. **Hinton**, Lt. Col., deputy commander, Army Air Operations Group, 7-2-**12**, ~~["The EU Emissions Trading Scheme: A Challenge to U.S. Sovereignty," Strategy Research Project, [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord%26metadataPrefix=html%26identifier=ADA561495-http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord%26metadataPrefix=html%26identifier=ADA561495]]~~] E. Liu
The EU ETS is not exclusively a bilateral issue between the United States and the
AND
. In light of this possibility, a recommended policy option is proposed.


EU collapse destroys the global economy and US recovery – International solutions are key
Nuno **Monteiro**, assistant professor of political science at Yale University **and** Thomas **Wright**, executive director of studies at The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, fellow at the Brookings Institution in the Managing Global Order project, 7-21-**11**, ~~["Europe~’s Contagion Effect: Prepare for a Global Economic Collapse," The National Interest, [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/europes-contagion-effect-prepare-global-economic-collapse-5640-http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/europes-contagion-effect-prepare-global-economic-collapse-5640]]~~] E. Liu
Europe is on the brink of a major financial disaster. Moody~’s has downgraded Irish
AND
sum, the US economy~’s fledgling recovery would be dead in the water.


Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare **Merlini**, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 20**11**, "A Post-Secular World?," Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of
AND
theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.


Multilateralism and US soft power are key to prevent global threats from terrorism, disease and global instability
Joseph **Nye**, professor of international relations at Harvard University, **08** (n.d.) ("American Power After the Financial Crises," [[http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533)-http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533)]]
Power always depends on context, and in today~’s world, it is distributed in
AND
even the largest country cannot achieve its aims without the help of others.

===Contention Two is Small Modular Reactors=== 

The plan is key to SMR efficiency – transportation investment of hydrogen is key to spillover
M. **Sjardin** et al, K.J. Damen, A.P.C. Faaij, Department of Science, Technology and Society, Copernicus Institute for Sustainable Development and Innovation, Utrecht University, Heidelberglaan 2, 3584 CS Utrecht, The Netherlands, 08-30-20**05**, "Techno-economic prospects of small-scale membrane reactors in a future hydrogen-fuelled transportation sector", [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544205002781-http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544205002781]] ~~[RR~~]
The small-scale membrane reactor has been evaluated in relation to its future economic
AND
more detailed model is developed to determine the possible impact of our assumptions.


Water shortages cause disease – SMRS are key to solve through scalable desalination
**Palley 11** (Reese Palley - 1945-1949 The New School for Social Research<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>1949-1952 The London School of Economics. Writer and historian) (The Answer: Why Only Inherently Safe, Mini Nuclear Power Plants Can Save Our World. Pg. 168-171)
Desalinization and World Water Shortage¶ In 1990 Florida, Georgia, and Alabama began
AND
biblical ability to "strike any local rock and have water gush forth."

Diseases cause extinction – New threats and adaptability block defenses
Arturo **Casadevall**, Professor and Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, New York, 2005 American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow, et al., Ferric C. Fang, Liise-anne Pirofski, 7-21-**11**, ~~["Microbial Virulence as an Emergent Property: Consequences and Opportunities," PLoS Pathogens, [[http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.1002136-http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.1002136]]~~] E. Liu
Although an existential threat from the microbial world might seem like science fiction, a
AND
development of predictive tools for identifying microbial threats is both desirable and important.


Key to deescalate conflicts
**Palley ~’11** Reese Palley, The London School of Economics, 2011, The Answer: Why Only Inherently Safe, Mini Nuclear Power Plans Can Save Our World, p. 168-71
The third world has long been rent in recent droughts, by the search for
AND
biblical ability to "strike any local rock and have water gush forth."

Water shortages cause central Asian war, Indo-Pak war, and mid-east war
**Hernandez** 9/28/**12** (Col Nelson E. Hernández is a Command pilot with more than 2,000 of flying hours, who has served in the El Salvador Air Force for 30 years. He graduated from the Salvadoran Military Academy in 1984, and has done studies in the United States for Pilot Training, Squadron Officer School, Air Command and Staff College and Air War College in Maxwell AFB, Alabama. Col Hernández has commanded several units in the Salvadoran Air Force from Squadron to Air Brigade level, and served as Chief of the General Staff during 2010 and 2011. He served in Iraq as a Chief Planner in the Multinational Force-Iraq staff in 2005, and is currently working at USCENTCOM as the El Salvador Representative and also as an Action Officer in the Combined Planning Group (CCJ5/CPG).) ("Water Security Conflicts: A Regional Perspective" http://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/water-security-conflicts-a-regional-perspective)
INTRODUCTION¶ On the 1st of April 2014, the world was caught off guard
AND
it is to succeed in developing economically and integrating into the regional economy.

Russian treaty obligations guarantee Central Asian escalation
**Blank 2k** (Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, "U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia", [[www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf-http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf]])
Washington~’s burgeoning military-political-economic involvement seeks, inter alia, to demonstrate
AND
, (5) neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation.

Indo-Pak water conflict goes nuclear
**Zahoor 11** (Musharaf, is researcher at Department of Nuclear Politics, National Defence University, Islamabad, "Water crisis can trigger nuclear war in South Asia," [[http://www.siasat.pk/forum/showthread.php?77008-Water-Crisis-can-Trigger-Nuclear-War-in-South-Asia-http://www.siasat.pk/forum/showthread.php?77008-Water-Crisis-can-Trigger-Nuclear-War-in-South-Asia]], AM)
South Asia is among one of those regions where water needs are growing disproportionately to
AND
dialogue will leave no option but to achieve the ends through military means.

Middle East war escalates and goes nuclear
**Steinbach 02** (John, Center for Research on Globalization, 3-3, http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html)
Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction in such an unstable region
AND
the deepening Middle East conflict could trigger a world conflagration." (44)


Blackouts are inevitable and dangerous now – Hydrogen adoption is key to cool supergrids which solve for grid resiliency
Paul M. **Grant**, worked for IBM for 40 years, starting in 1953 at age 17 as a pinsetter at the company bowling alley. After earning a Ph.D. in physics at Harvard University, he joined the San Jose Research Laboratory, where he participated in the discovery of hightemperature superconductivity. From 1993 to 2004, Grant was a science fellow at the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), **et al.,** Chauncey Starr, founder, Electric Power Research Institute, 1990 recipient of the U.S. National Medal of Technology, did early research on cryogenics, managed the atomic energy division of Rockwell International, co-founded the American Nuclear Society, and was president of EPRI for more than a decade. THOMAS J. OVERBYE, who holds the Fox Family Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, contributed to the official investigation of the 2003 North American blackout, 7-**06**, ~~["A Power Grid for the Hydrogen Economy," Scientific American (July 2006), 295, 76-83, [[http://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v295/n1/full/scientificamerican0706-76.html-http://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v295/n1/full/scientificamerican0706-76.html]]~~] E. Liu
On the afternoon of August 14, 2003, electricity failed to arrive in New
AND
economies are to move away from greenhousegas- emitting power plants and vehicles.


Blackouts cause nuclear meltdowns that irradiate and kill all life
**International Business Times** 20**11** "Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns," [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm-http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]]~~]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">All nuclear power plants are</span> operated <span style="font-size: 12pt;">in a near-meltdown status</span>. They operate at very high heat, relying on nuclear fission to boil water that produces steam to drive the turbines that generate electricity. Critically, the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear fuel is prevented from melting down through</span> the steady circulation of coolants which are pushed through the cooling system using very high powered <span style="font-size: 12pt;">electric pumps</span>. If you stop the electric pumps, the coolant stops flowing and the fuel rods go critical (and then melt down). This is what happened in Fukushima, where the melted fuel rods dropped through the concrete floor of the containment vessels, unleashing enormous quantities of ionizing radiation into the surrounding environment. The full extent of the Fukushima contamination is not even known yet, as the facility is still emitting radiation. It~’s crucial to understand that nuclear coolant pumps are usually <span style="font-size: 12pt;">driven by power from the electrical grid</span>. They are not normally driven by power generated locally from the nuclear power plant itself. Instead, they~’re connected to the grid. In other words, even though <span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear power plants are</span> generating megawatts of electricity for the grid, they are also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">dependant on the grid to run their own</span> coolant <span style="font-size: 12pt;">pumps</span>. If the grid goes down, the coolant pumps go down, too, which is why they are quickly switched to emergency backup power — either generators or batteries. As we learned with Fukushima, the on-site <span style="font-size: 12pt;">batteries can only drive the </span>coolant <span style="font-size: 12pt;">pumps for around eight hours.</span> After that, the nuclear facility is dependent on diesel generators (or sometimes propane) to run the pumps that circulate the coolant which prevents the whole site from going Chernobyl. And yet, critically, this depends on something rather obvious: The delivery of diesel fuel to the site. If diesel cannot be delivered, the generators can~’t be fired up and the coolant can~’t be circulated. When you grasp the importance of this supply line dependency, you will instantly understand why a single solar flare could unleash a nuclear holocaust across the planet. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">When</span> the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">generators fail</span> and the coolant pumps stop pumping, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear fuel rods begin to melt</span> through their containment rods, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">unleashing</span> ungodly amounts <span style="font-size: 12pt;">of life-destroying radiation directly into the atmosphere.</span> This is precisely why Japanese engineers worked so hard to reconnect the local power grid to the Fukushima facility after the tidal wave — they needed to bring power back to the generators to run the pumps that circulate the coolant. This effort failed, of course, which is why Fukushima became such a nuclear disaster and released countless becquerels of radiation into the environment (with no end in sight). And yet the real crisis here stems from the realization that once there is no power grid, all the nuclear power plants of the world suddenly go into "emergency mode" and are forced to rely on their on-site emergency power backups to circulate coolants and prevent nuclear meltdowns from occurring. And yet, as we~’ve already established, these facilities typically have only a few hours of battery power available, followed by perhaps a few days worth of diesel fuel to run their generators (or propane, in some cases). Did I also mention that half the people who work at nuclear power facilities have no idea what they~’re doing in the first place? Most of the veterans who really know the facilities inside and out have been forced into retirement due to reaching their lifetime limits of on-the-job radiation exposure, so most of the workers at nuclear facilities right now are newbies who really have no clue what they~’re doing. There are 440 nuclear power plants operating across 30 countries around the world today. There are an additional 250 so-called "research reactors" in existence, making a total of roughly 700 nuclear reactors to be dealt with (http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/i...). Now imagine the scenario: You~’ve got a massive solar flare that knocks out the world power grid and destroys the majority of the power grid transformers, thrusting the world into darkness. Cities collapse into chaos and rioting, martial law is quickly declared (but it hardly matters), and every nation in the world is on full emergency. But that doesn~’t solve the really big problem, which is that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">you~’ve got 700 nuclear reactors that can~’t feed power</span> into the grid (because all the transformers are blown up) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> yet simultaneously <span style="font-size: 12pt;">have to be fed a steady stream of emergency fuels to</span> run the generators the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">keep the coolant pumps functioning</span>. How long does the coolant need to circulate in these facilities to cool the nuclear fuel? Months. This is also the lesson of Fukushima: You can~’t cool nuclear fuel in mere hours or days. It takes months to bring these nuclear facilities to a state of cold shutdown. And that means in order to avoid a multitude of Fukushima-style meltdowns from occurring around the world, you need to truck diesel fuel, generator parts and nuclear plant workers to every nuclear facility on the planet, ON TIME, every time, without fail, for months on end. Now remember, this must be done in the middle of the total chaos breakdown of modern civilization, where there is no power, where law enforcement and emergency services are totally overrun, where people are starving because food deliveries have been disrupted, and when looting and violent crime runs rampant in the streets of every major city in the world. Somehow, despite all this, you have to run these diesel fuel caravans to the nuclear power plants and keep the pumps running. Except there~’s a problem in all this, even if you assume you can somehow work a logistical miracle and actually deliver the diesel fuel to the backup generators on time (which you probably can~’t). The problem is this: Where do you get diesel fuel? Why refineries will be shut down, too From petroleum refineries. Most people don~’t realize it, but petroleum refineries run on electricity. Without the power grid, the refineries don~’t produce a drop of diesel. With no diesel, there are no generators keeping the coolant running in the nuclear power facilities. But wait, you say: Maybe we could just acquire diesel from all the gas stations in the world. Pump it out of the ground, load it into trucks and use that to power the generators, right? Except there are other problems here: How do you pump all that fuel without electricity? How do you acquire all the tires and spare parts needed to keep trucks running if there~’s no electricity to keep the supply businesses running? How do you maintain a truck delivery infrastructure when the electrical infrastructure is totally wiped out? Some countries might be able to pull it off with some degree of success. With military escorts and the total government control over all fuel supplies, a few nations will be able to keep a few nuclear power facilities from melting down. But here~’s the real issue: There are 700 nuclear power facilities in the world, remember? Let~’s suppose that in the aftermath of a massive solar flare, the nations of the world are somehow able to control half of those facilities and nurse them into cold shutdown status. That still leaves roughly 350 nuclear facilities at risk. Now let~’s suppose half of those are somehow luckily offline and not even functioning when the solar flare hits, so they need no special attention. This is a very optimistic assumption, but that still leaves 175 nuclear power plants where all attempts fail. Let~’s be outrageously optimistic and suppose that a third of those somehow don~’t go into a total meltdown by some miracle of God, or some bizarre twist in the laws of physics. So we~’re still left with 115 nuclear power plants that "go Chernobyl." Fukushima was one power plant. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Imagine the devastation of 100+ nuclear power plants, all going into meltdown </span>all at once across the planet. It~’s not the loss of electricity that~’s the real problem; it~’s <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the global tidal wave of</span> invisible <span style="font-size: 12pt;">radiation</span> that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">blankets the planet, permeates the topsoil, irradiates everything that breathes and delivers the final crushing blow to </span>human <span style="font-size: 12pt;">civilization</span> as we know it today. Because if you have 100 simultaneous global nuclear meltdowns, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the</span> tidal wave of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">radiation will make farming nearly impossible for years</span>. That means no food production for several years in a row. And <span style="font-size: 12pt;">that</span>, in turn, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">means a near-total collapse of the human population on our planet</span>. How many people can survive an entire year with no food from the farms? Not one in a hundred people. Even beyond that, how many people can essentially live underground and be safe enough from the radiation that they can have viable children and repopulate the planet? It~’s a very, very small fraction of the total population.

===Contention Three is Solvency=== 

Infrastructure is necessary for hydrogen adoption – Otherwise its costs put hydrogen decades away
James I. **Hileman**, associate Director of the Partner- ship for AiR Transportation Noise and Emissions Reduction. (PARTNER), **et al**., David S. Ortiz, James T. Bartis, Hsin Min Wong, Pearl E. Donohoo, Malcolm A. Weiss, Ian A. Waitz, **09**, ~~["Near-Term Feasibility of Alternative Jet Fuels," FAA Sponsored, [[http://stuff.mit.edu:8001/afs/athena.mit.edu/dept/aeroastro/partner/reports/proj17/altfuelfeasrpt.pdf-http://stuff.mit.edu:8001/afs/athena.mit.edu/dept/aeroastro/partner/reports/proj17/altfuelfeasrpt.pdf]]~~] E. Liu
Cryogenic liquids were not considered in this study because they are incompatible with the existing
AND
aviation would be available commercially in the next decade, if not longer.


Alternative fuels are on the brink of market viability – Aviation infrastructure for use and distribution is necessary to adopt those technologies
Robbert **Kivits**, Graduate College of Management, Southern Cross University, Tweed Gold Coast, Australia , Workforce Research Analyst, Energy Skills Queensland, **et al.,** Michael B. Charles, Neal Ryan, 4-**10**, ~~["A Post-Carbon Aviation Future: Airports and the Transition to a Cleaner Aviation Sector," Futures Volume 42, Issue 3, April 2010, Pages 199–211, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016328709001797~~] E. Liu
As the need for sustainable solutions increases over time, alternative technologies will gain more
AND
respect to required modifications to the infrastructural systems that support contemporary commercial aviation.


The creation of hydrogen infrastructure and strong markets will power innovation, cleanliness and growth of hydrogen
A. **Midilli**, MEnergy Division, Mechanical Engineering Department, Nigde University, 51100 Nigde, Turkey, et al., . Aya, I. Dincer, , , M.A. Rosen, 6-**05**, ~~["On hydrogen and hydrogen energy strategies: I: current status and needs," Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, Volume 9, Issue 3, June 2005, Pages 255–271, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032104000644-http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032104000644]]~~] E. Liu
The transition to a hydrogen-based energy economy, where the main chemical energy
AND
be overcome to allow mass adoption of fuel cells and other hydrogen technologies.






==NIB AFF== 
===1AC Glenbrooks=== 

=1AC= 

==Plan Text== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national investment bank.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 1 is Growth</span>
Transportation infrastructure decline is inevitable in the status quo – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Puentes et al</span>, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]] [RR]
Most <span style="font-size: 12pt;">experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness</span>. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars</span>. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Puentes</span>, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations.</span> But for too long, the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy.</span> The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars</span>. And it means <span style="font-size: 12pt;">so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate.</span> //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the proposal fo</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">r</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a national infrastructure bank is so important</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>// So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we <span style="font-size: 12pt;">need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand</span>; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Infrastructure is fundamental</span> to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a national infrastructure bank</span> is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it <span style="font-size: 12pt;">would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States.</span> Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with</span> conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">could easily leverag</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">e $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1 trillion over a decade</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>// Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations</span>. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure</span>//. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP</span> or $3.5 trillion, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain.</span> Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates.</span> Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place.</span> Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.</span> Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development</span>. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Too often, however, </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">pressed by day-to-day concerns, state</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and local </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral ofinvestment until a time when surpluses return.</span> Unfortunately, //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">this</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> pattern </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has been repeated for decades, and</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the accumulation of </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deferred maintenance</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and deferred investment in future infrastructure </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has led to an unsatisfactory status quo</span>//. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure</span> in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle.</span> Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial.</span> The private sector can be a strong partner to government. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity</span>.

Strong supply chains are key to boost US exports, efficiency, and boost GDP – it also boosts business confidence
Nicole Y. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lamb-Hale</span>, Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce, 04-29-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf
As <span style="font-size: 12pt;">sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, firms are transforming the way they look at and manage supply chains</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">No longer are individual companies competing with each other, entire supply chains are. Effective supply chains and just-in-time delivery systems drive modern global business. Supply chain infrastructure is the glue that binds successful trade routes</span>. It //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">affects </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">cost of every single product in the United States</span>//. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inefficient connections</span> and capacity limitations <span style="font-size: 12pt;">lead to delays that raise the price of a company’s product, and make it harder to compete globally</span>. Supply chain infrastructure <span style="font-size: 12pt;">is an important factor in a company’s decision on where to invest, build, and employ people</span>. These <span style="font-size: 12pt;">decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure determines the attractiveness of a particular location.</span> As <span style="font-size: 12pt;">world commerce becomes more integrated</span>, and as sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">America’s firms and supply chains are being transformed. It has long been the case that it is no longer the individual companies that compete with each other. Rather, entire supply chains – fully integrated processes that connect manufacturer to transporter to distribution center to point of sale</span> – are <span style="font-size: 12pt;">now the primary competitors in domestic and global commerce</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Efficiencies</span> in supply chains <span style="font-size: 12pt;">lead to competitive advantages, and</span> they <span style="font-size: 12pt;">make possible global sourcing</span>, just in time delivery systems, and modern global business itself. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">velocity and efficiency of each supply chain depends on the infrastructure through which these goods and products flow.</span> The increasingly time-sensitive and integrated nature of modern supply chains make smooth, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">just-in-time goods movement a critical element in that supply chain’s ability to compete in the global economy. Industry today sees infrastructure as an interconnected network of physical transport facilities, combined with modern information technology systems.</span> The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">efficiency</span> of this infrastructure -- and the industries that depend on it—is <span style="font-size: 12pt;">affected by environmental and sustainability considerations, new financing options, education, and regulatory and trade security measures</span>. This speaks to the growing sophistication and complexity of modern supply chains, and their <span style="font-size: 12pt;">critical reliance on the quality of America’s supply chain infrastructure to support modern, high-tech manufacturing</span>. Industry members have told us that supply chain infrastructure makes a difference because it affects the cost of every single product made or used in the United States. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Missing connections</span> and capacity limitations between port and manufacturer <span style="font-size: 12pt;">lead to delays that raise the price of every American export product and make it harder to compete with international producers</span>. To illustrate this point, a recent Wall Street Journal article reported that a key harbor grain terminal in the Port of Los Angeles lacks enough space to handle the volume of exports arriving from inland producers due to the limited rail service to that terminal. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leading executives have also told us that a nation’s supply chain infrastructure also makes a difference when deciding where their firms will invest, build facilities and employ people</span>. These <span style="font-size: 12pt;">decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure at the point of decision – the efficiency of the ports, the level of inter-modal connections, the quality of the IT systems, and more</span> – <span style="font-size: 12pt;">determines in part the attractiveness of a location.</span>
Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boushey</span>, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf]] [RR]
President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And <span style="font-size: 12pt;">history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation.</span> Indeed, there’s a long history that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective</span>. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is <span style="font-size: 12pt;">an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project</span>.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises.</span> The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government investments</span> in basic science <span style="font-size: 12pt;">brought us</span>the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">innovative businesses</span>has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">basic regulations</span>, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated <span style="font-size: 12pt;">so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest.</span> //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government spending is</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> also an </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">important</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> part of the economy. Millions of people</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">work for the government and </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">millions</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> more </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are employed in government-funded work</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and all those dollars</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> flowing into the economy </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">create even more jo</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">bs</span>//. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment</span>.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation</span>. In short//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the economy continues to suffer from</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a lack of demand</span>//. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The federal government can help with</span> this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">investments in roads and bridge</span>s, investment in changes that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the</span> country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation</span> //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> economists have found that the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">multipliers </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are largest when</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> overall </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">demand is weak, like current economic conditions</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in the United States</span>//.5 The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Recovery and Reinvestment Act</span> of 2009 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and other steps</span> taken <span style="font-size: 12pt;">to address the Great Recession</span> targeted funds <span style="font-size: 12pt;">toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective</span>. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased <span style="font-size: 12pt;">investments in infrastructure</span> saved or <span style="font-size: 12pt;">created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by</span> March <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment</span>. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These <span style="font-size: 12pt;">programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs</span>. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economists</span> Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi <span style="font-size: 12pt;">estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million</span>.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress and </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">administration actually reduced the deficit,</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">relative to where </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it would be today</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> had no such action been taken</span>//. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clearly, </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is solid evidence</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that government </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">spending can create jobs</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in a recession</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as deep and protracted as the Great Recession</span>//. In fact, given current conditions, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy</span>. //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is something that economic forecasters from across the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending</span>//.22 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Supply-side economics is not the answer</span> The supply-side <span style="font-size: 12pt;">mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions</span>. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand.</span> There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Skidelsky and</span> Felix <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin</span>, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump</span>, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest</span>—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings</span>—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand</span>—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments.</span> Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future</span>; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible</span>, as President Obama has made clear. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution</span>—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly</span>. As in the classical Keynesian solution, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs.</span> But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital</span>. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.</span>

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fair</span>, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, [[http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF]] [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ramey</span> (2011) reviews the literature on <span style="font-size: 12pt;">estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods</span> (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She <span style="font-size: 12pt;">concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair</span> (2010) also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes.</span> After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO</span> (2010) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output</span>. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>// Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barro and Redlick</span> (2011) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">areconcerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars</span>.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concern<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ed with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions</span>, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending</span> (on goods and services) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">multipliers</span>. Their //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">general </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions</span>//. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio</span>. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually.</span> The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive.</span> For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation</span>. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">A government spending shock</span> (or decrease in taxes) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect</span>. All this happens even though <span style="font-size: 12pt;">agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes</span>. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by <span style="font-size: 12pt;">DeLong and Summers</span> (2012), which <span style="font-size: 12pt;">argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing</span>—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio</span>. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.</span>//

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable by 2013
Nouriel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roubini</span>, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 07-23-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>, “"US Economy Going from Bad to Worse”, [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577]]
A <span style="font-size: 12pt;">robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the cards, and we should now expect below trend growth for many years to come</span>, according to Nouriel Roubini, the economist famed for his bearish views. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roubini, best-known for calling the 2008 economic crisis, outlined five reasons the bulls have been wrong</span> and argued that an American economic cold will lead the rest of the world to catch pneumonia in a post on the Project Syndicate website. “Even this year, the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">consensus got it wrong, expecting a recovery to annual GDP growth of better than 3 percent</span>,” the founder of Roubini Global Economics wrote. “And now, after getting the first half of 2012 wrong, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices, rising auto sales, recovering house prices, and a resurgence of U.S. manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above-potential growth by 2013.” Roubini believes the U.S. economy will slow further this year and next as expectations of the “fiscal cliff” keep spending and growth lower</span> — and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election dogs markets. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">fiscal cliff could knock 4.5 percent off 2013 growth if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and spending cuts where triggered</span>, according to Roubini. “Of course, the drag will be much smaller, as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder. But, even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a mild growth bump</span> — a mere 0.5 percent of GDP — <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 percent, as seems likely, the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed: a growth rate of barely 1 percent,</span>” he wrote. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. consumer, which drives plenty of the global economy as well as the U.S., will not be able to keep spending when $1.4 billion worth of tax cuts and extended transfer payments</span> come to an end according to Roubini. “<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In 2013, as transfer payments are phased out</span>, however gradually, and as <span style="font-size: 12pt;">some tax cuts are allowed to expire, disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow</span>. The U.S. will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag, but also its indirect effect on private spending,” he wrote. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">problems in the euro zone, a slowdown in China and emerging markets, added to the chance that oil prices could be driven higher by tensions over Iran’s nuclear program, will also add to America’s economic woes</span>, Roubini argued. He <span style="font-size: 12pt;">warned the Fed will not be able to ride to the rescue this time.</span> “The U.S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year, but it will beineffective: long-term interest rates are already very low, and lowering them further would not boost spending</span>,” he wrote. “Indeed, the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed, with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves. Moreover, the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing.” Roubini also argued that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">earnings growth is now beginning to run out of steam, after buoying markets earlier in the economic cycle</span>. The second-quarter earnings season has so far presented a mixed picture. “A <span style="font-size: 12pt;">significant equity-price correction could, in fact, be the force that in2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction. And if the U.S. starts to sneeze again, the rest of the world — its immunity already weakened by Europe’s malaise and emerging countries’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia</span>,” he warned.r the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk</span>. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even those Americans who are working are generally working less</span>; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces.</span> Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy</span>. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery</span>. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero</span>. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank</span>. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of g</span>ross <span style="font-size: 12pt;">d</span>omestic <span style="font-size: 12pt;">p</span>roduct, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II</span>, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">one precedent you might consider is 1937</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first</span>.”

Stimulus is our only hope for averting a double dip in the short term – all austerity measures fail
Nouriel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roubini</span>, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 08-12-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>, “"Dr. Doom" Takes A Look At The Economy”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/08/12/158644951/taking-a-doomy-look-at-the-economy]] [RR]
WERTHEIMER: So are you taking a doomy view of the U.S. economy in the near term? ROUBINI: I am concerned. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth has been very slow. And at the end of the year, there'll be this fiscal cliff and some element of fiscal drag.</span> WERTHEIMER: The fiscal cliff is <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the decision that the Congress has to make, to either renew the President Bush's tax cuts or permit rather drastic cuts in spending and increases in taxes to take place.</span> ROUBINI: Yes, if all of those things were to occur, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the drag on the economy could be very, very large and growth could be close to zero by next year. And we couldbe stuck and sulk again about stalled speed or a double-dip recession.</span> WERTHEIMER: Now, as you pointed out, you did predict the crash in 2008. But you predicted something that was even more dire than what has happened. You talked about stock markets closing for days or weeks, stock prices going through the floor. Is anything that you're looking at pointing toward anything that serious this time? ROUBINI: Maybe not but //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is certainly risk that by next year a perfect global storm may occur</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>// By next year, you <span style="font-size: 12pt;">might have a disorderly breakup of the eurozone. You might have the fiscal drag leads to another recession in the U.S. China</span>, growth is slowing down - they might have a hard landing. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Other emerging markets growth is stalling. And in the Middle East, there is a risk that there may be a military confrontation between Israel and U.S. on one side and Iran of the issue of nuclear proliferation</span>. So there are these five risks. If they were to materialize, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">then we'll have another global recession and it could be worse than the one we had in 2008/2013.</span> WERTHEIMER: But isn't it also true that Germany might decide to take responsibility for some of the smaller countries and cover their debt; that the Chinese, since they are in such serious control of their economy, that they could manage this landing; that energy prices have been falling in the United States because we are doing so much production on our own, that perhaps we wouldn't hit a horrible bump if Middle Eastern oil quantities went down? I mean there are ways in which it could go this way, or it could go that way. ROUBINI: You're absolutely right. I would argue that in Germany in the core of the eurozone, there is also bailout fatigue. They say, for example, the Greeks had a Big Fat Greek Wedding, not for long weekend but for the last 20 years. We give them a first bailout, a second bailout, many Germans want to pull the plug. In China, you have a new government at the end of the year. Either they move away from net exports, from too much savings, from too much capital investments towards more consumption, or otherwise by next year China could have also a hard landing. In the U.S., we have shale gas. I think it has been hyped a bit too much. It's going to help the energy needs of the U.S., but that revolution may take 10 to 20 years. If there is a war in the Middle East next year, the shock to all prices is going to tip the U.S. into a recession because we're not going to be energy independent for at least another decade. WERTHEIMER: Is there anything that the Federal Reserve can do to avert this crisis that concerns you? ROUBINI: Yes, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the Federal Reserve can help and so far it has helped. The fact that the Great Recession of '08/'13 did not turn into another Great Depression is due to the fact that we learned the lessons of the Great Depression</span>. And //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it means that in the short term we need more fiscal stimulus</span>//. The reality however is that we're running out of policy bullets. Politically, we're not going to be able to bailout the banks and the bankers for a second time. I think there will be a political backlash against it. So if things are to turn sour compared to '08, when we had all the policy bullets, this time around would be worse. WERTHEIMER: One of the big themes in this election year is a call for <span style="font-size: 12pt;">austerity</span>. If that means that the government should drastically cut spending, would it help? Would it avert a crisis or would it bring one on? ROUBINI: <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unfortunately the U.S. political system is in a gridlock. And the reality is that in the medium time we have to reduce our budget deficit, and the way to do it is going to be a combination of reforming Social Security and Medicare on one side, but also gradually increasing the tax burden because right now it's very low, especially on those who can pay.</span> And while we have to do fiscal austerity, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">if we do too much of it</span>, next year or in the next couple of years<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, the risk, like in the eurozone, is that we end up into another recession because austerity</span>, however necessary, //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in the short run has a negative effect on economic growth</span>//.

Strong growth outweighs all deficits and future cuts
Bret <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Swanson</span>, President of Entropy Economics a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 05-27-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “The Growth Imperative”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed. In most conversations of deficits, entitlements, debt ceilings, and bond markets, economic growth goes unmentioned</span>. In recent days, a few smart policy makers finally whispered it, yet not with the needed volume and specificity. Perhaps the paltry 1.8% first quarter GDP figure, when <span style="font-size: 12pt;">our recovery should be generating 5% numbers</span>, will get the nation’s attention. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth today is</span> our biggest problem – but also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">our biggest opportunity</span>. We’ve all seen the budget charts with steeply sloping outlays and trillion dollar deficits stretching over the horizon, leading inevitably to skyrocketing debt. The responsible people, like those gathered at Pete Peterson’s Fiscal Summit this week, tell us the only solution is to “cut spending and raise taxes” – in dramatic amounts. And of course less spending and more revenue are essential. But <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the partisan divide between the spending cutters and tax raisers is unlikely to yield a helpful policy path – more likely a muddle of growth killing taxes and out-year</span> NIMTO (<span style="font-size: 12pt;">not in my term of office</span>) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">spending cuts</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth, on the other hand, swamps every spending cut and tax rate increase. In 2010, U.S. GDP was $14.66 trillion. Today’s 2% growthrate, over the long-term, would yield output of $17.9 trillion in 2020, $21.8 trillion in 2030, $26.6 trillion in 2040, and $32.4 trillion in 2050.</span> But <span style="font-size: 12pt;">what if America committed to a bold long range growth goal</span>? I’m no budget expert, but for a presentation to the National Chamber Foundation on May 24, I offered a few simple charts that tell the story. A 4% growth rate //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">would mean almost </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">$4 trillion in</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> additional output in the year </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2020</span>//, $10 trillion more in 2030, $21 trillion more in 2040, and an astounding $38 trillion more in 2050, when the economy would be more than twice as large had we kept growing at 2%. Over this period, with an arbitrarily chosen 20% tax-to-GDP ratio, a 4% growth rate would generate $109 trillion more revenue than a 2% growth rate. But 4% is wildly optimistic, you say. Perhaps. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The consensus long range projection is just 2.5%</span>. Fine, what if we could bump growth to a measly 3%? We would still generate an additional $25 trillion in tax revenue over the 40-year period. Didn’t the Medicare actuary just tell us the program’s unfunded liability is $24.6 trillion? <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boosting the share of the economy we collect in taxes doesn’t do any good if the economy lags</span>. Collecting 20% or 25% of GDP in taxes, as some propose, doesn’t get us anywhere close to balance if we grow just 2% or 2.5%. On the other hand, 4% growth with the historical 18% tax-GDP ratio keeps up with even our current profligate spending path. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The power of compound growth towers over every other consideration</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapid economic growth should thus be our chief national objective. We should measure every policy – extant and proposed – against this goal. Do our tax, regulatory, trade, immigration, and social policies help maximize economic growth? Or do they risk depressing our potential growth rate even just a bit? Compound growth is so powerful, no policy that imperils it should be tolerated.</span> This Growth Test should inform and shape every debate. Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest. How do we grow? Immigration, fertility, and longevity are of course factors. In my book, more people are desirable. But the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">kind of growth we really need is based on an entrepreneurially venturesome economy full of experimentation and discovery. We need more new technologies, more new goods and services, more investors, more new companies. </span>These things generate incremental productivity advances in existing industries and markets, but more importantly they create totally new industries and unlikely life enhancements. The keys are flexibility, investment, technology, and entrepreneurship. The Kauffman Foundation’s Brink Lindsey surmises that the most developed nations, like the U.S., need ever more freedom and entrepreneurship to grow. Developing nations can simply adopt the world’s leading edge technologies and business practices. Their growth path is relatively clear. Not so for us. Because we define the economic and technological frontier, we must keep pushing forward into an uncertain future.

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baker</span>, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Kevin <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hassett</span>, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12</span>, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long-term unemployment</span> is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result <span style="font-size: 12pt;">is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event</span>, especially for older workers. A paper by the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">economists</span> Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter <span style="font-size: 12pt;">estimate</span>s <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss</span>, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate</span> for males <span style="font-size: 12pt;">by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>tates. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joblessness is</span> also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">associated with</span> some <span style="font-size: 12pt;">serious illnesses</span>, although the causal links are poorly understood. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying</span> of the disease. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The physical andpsychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members</span>. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss</span>.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merlini</span>, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">acute tensions apparent today evolve</span>s <span style="font-size: 12pt;">into</span> an <span style="font-size: 12pt;">open</span> and traditional <span style="font-size: 12pt;">conflict</span> between states, perhaps even <span style="font-size: 12pt;">involving </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the use of </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear weapons</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic</span> and financial <span style="font-size: 12pt;">system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced</span>, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying</span>, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">multilateralism, including the UN and the E</span>uropean <span style="font-size: 12pt;">U</span>nion. Many of the more <span style="font-size: 12pt;">likely conflicts</span>, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration <span style="font-size: 12pt;">might become unbearable.</span> Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to</span> theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as <span style="font-size: 12pt;">unbridled nationalism.</span>

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal</span>, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">economic decline</span> may <span style="font-size: 12pt;">increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span> Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">on the systemic leve</span>l. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">rhythms in the global economyare associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition fromone pre-eminent leader to the next.</span> As such, exogenous <span style="font-size: 12pt;">shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power </span>(sec also Gilpin. 1981) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation</span> (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict</span> as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">if the expectations of future trade decline</span>, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as <span style="font-size: 12pt;">states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger</span> for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour.</span> Moreover, the presence of a <span style="font-size: 12pt;">recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other</span>. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic<span style="font-size: 12pt;">decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism</span> (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions.</span> Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline,</span> sitting <span style="font-size: 12pt;">governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect.</span> Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the tendency</span> towards diversionary tactics are <span style="font-size: 12pt;">greater for democratic states</span> than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">weak economic performance</span> in the United States, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> thus <span style="font-size: 12pt;">weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force</span>. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those <span style="font-size: 12pt;">studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views</span><span class="NothingChar">.</span>

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gartzke</span>, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Modern “zonesof peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These </span>countries<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> couldfight each other, but are not inclined to do so.</span> At the same time, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power</span> against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak</span> (usually neighboring)<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> nations, with intervention by powerful</span> (geographically distant) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">states in a policing capacity.</span> So, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the riddle of peace boils down to</span> why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. </span>Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. </span>Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take.</span> Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of comparable importance is the move to </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">substantial </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries</span> of the twentieth century <span style="font-size: 12pt;">were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved,</span> as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight</span>//. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future.<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The rising nations of Asia</span> in particular <span style="font-size: 12pt;">have not been</span> equal<span style="font-size: 12pt;">beneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them.</span> The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants.<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity.</span> Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, </span>while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> intangible <span style="font-size: 12pt;">spoils have declined in value.</span> These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

Contention 2 is Solvency


Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">McConaghy</span>, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Jim <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kessler</span>, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]]
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Funding for new infrastructure will be a </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">crucial investment</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future.</span> THE PROBLEM <span style="font-size: 12pt;">America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth.</span> In October, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Governor</span> Chris <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core</span> (ARC) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tunnel project, citing cost overruns</span> that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the</span> New Jersey-New York <span style="font-size: 12pt;">region</span> and would have created thousands of jobs, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">it was </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">held </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">captive to significant cost escalation</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>//barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and just plain politics.</span>// Sadly, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">major infrastructure projects</span>//. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">significant new investment</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects</span>. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports</span> to broadband and power transmission upgrades—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America.</span> America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow.</span> The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity</span>. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Highway bottlenecks</span> are estimated to <span style="font-size: 12pt;">cost</span> freight trucks about $<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8 billion</span> in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year</span>,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current system for funding projects issubject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actorsbased on sector.</span>24 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">weakening linkages to federal program goals</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and efforts </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to ensure accountability</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>25 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">system-wide approach</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.</span>26 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Complicating matters even further are the emergence of </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">multi-state “megaregions,” which</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient</span>.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending</span>,32 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">have been </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">severely impaired</span>//. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">At least </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">46 states</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future</span>.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank</span> In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The NIB would be a stand-alone </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">entity capitalized with federal funds</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost.</span> Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process</span>. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel.</span> America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges</span>. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the NIB would address</span> these <span style="font-size: 12pt;">concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment.</span> The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projectsstalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">large scale projects</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing.</span> In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">keep pace with competition from global rivals.</span>// The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The NIB would </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">magnify the impact of federal funds</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of privatecapital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion</span>,40 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">$12 trillion</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> by 2012.</span>41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the NIB could tap </span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">these</span>//vast pools of private//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization</span>//. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs</span>. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the NIB would help to </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">capitalize on a </span>//once-in-a-lifetime window//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to make enduring infrastructure investments.</span>//

Deficits are inevitable but infrastructure financing now is feasible and provides short and long term growth
William L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holahan</span>, is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Charles O. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kroncke</span>, is associate dean in the University of South Florida College of Business, 06-13-2012, :On U.S. infrastructure, spend now, gain later”, [[http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/on-us-infrastructure-spend-now-gain-later/1234943]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">When the American Society of Civil Engineers issued a report card giving D and F grades for major infrastructure assets in the United States, the group estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion to rehabilitate them.</span> Even though these public sector assets support the private sector of the economy, and despite the availability of cheap money, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress has no current plans to remedy this situation. </span>Its reluctance to support investment in infrastructure is unfortunate because <span style="font-size: 12pt;">this is an opportune time to earn a better report card; presently, we can borrow at very low interest rates to upgrade our streets, roads, bridges, railroads, school buildings, Internet bandwidth and K-12 education. We have earned the trust of foreign investors, who value the safety of our financial markets and seek to loan us money through their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds. In the short run, infrastructure investment would stimulate business growth andemploy otherwise unemployed resources of labor and equipment. In the longer run, when these assets are in good working order, they would support faster growth of the economy, a prerequisite for bringing down the national debt and putting workers back on the path to higher after-tax incomes</span>. What are we waiting for? Congressional inaction reflects the public concern over "runaway spending" and the rapid rise in the debt over the past 30 years, and especially the last five. Much of this concern rests on the falsely imagined equivalence of all government spending. But consumption spending and investment spending play very different roles in the economy, whether done by a firm, a family or the government. Our national debate should pivot from a narrow focus on debt alone to one that separates investment from consumption, that is, whether the borrowed money is spent in ways that repayment can be expected through increased future productivity. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carefully chosen infrastructure spending is an investment that pays for itself in greater economic growth</span>; in fact, failure to make these investments can retard growth. Infrastructure investment spending is more likely to be accepted by struggling taxpayers than increased consumption spending on safety net programs such as food stamps or extended unemployment insurance, however dire the need for such programs may be. Seriously? More debt? How often have we heard that the size of our current national debt — some $15 trillion — prevents us from borrowing more money? <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even with interest rates this low and opportunities so beneficial, the resistance to further borrowing is quite strong. The false and misleading claim is that we have already "mortgaged the future" and we "don't have the money." These slogans reflect a key concern: the ability to repay the debt</span>. The usual measure of the ability to repay debt is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. Since infrastructure assets have very long lives, this measure should be calculated over a long time horizon. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The public debt is projected to grow to $70 trillion over the next 75 years. If we experience 2 percent economic growth, national income over this period will total $2.46 quadrillion</span>. The resulting ratio would be a mere 2.84 percent, demonstrating that as a nation, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">we are in a position to make cost-beneficial, growth-enhancing investments</span>. Some additional arithmetic makes this point more forcefully. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suppose the infrastructure investments enable the economy to grow just one-tenth of one percent faster (2.1 percent versus 2.0 percent). Due to the power of compound interest, the added GDP over those 75 years is $116 trillion</span>. Yes, the projected national debt is large, much larger than this year's GDP. But arithmetic also shows that failure to invest in growth will deny future generations the enormous gains available from even tiny improvements in economic growth rates.

===1AC - Economy=== 
1AC

Plan Text

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national investment bank.
Contention 1 is Growth
Transportation infrastructure decline is inevitable in the status quo – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert Puentes et al, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585 [RR]
Most experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations. But for too long, the nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy. The benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars. And it means so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate. We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. Infrastructure is fundamental to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States. Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank could easily leverage $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $1 trillion over a decade. Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences. Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. Too often, however, pressed by day-to-day concerns, state and local governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral of investment until a time when surpluses return. Unfortunately, this pattern has been repeated for decades, and the accumulation of deferred maintenance and deferred investment in future infrastructure has led to an unsatisfactory status quo. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial. The private sector can be a strong partner to government. By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity.

Strong supply chains are key to boost US exports, efficiency, and boost GDP – it also boosts business confidence
Nicole Y. Lamb-Hale, Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce, 04-29-2010, “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf
As sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, firms are transforming the way they look at and manage supply chains. No longer are individual companies competing with each other, entire supply chains are. Effective supply chains and just-in-time delivery systems drive modern global business. Supply chain infrastructure is the glue that binds successful trade routes. It affects the cost of every single product in the United States. Inefficient connections and capacity limitations lead to delays that raise the price of a company’s product, and make it harder to compete globally. Supply chain infrastructure is an important factor in a company’s decision on where to invest, build, and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure determines the attractiveness of a particular location. As world commerce becomes more integrated, and as sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, America’s firms and supply chains are being transformed. It has long been the case that it is no longer the individual companies that compete with each other. Rather, entire supply chains – fully integrated processes that connect manufacturer to transporter to distribution center to point of sale – are now the primary competitors in domestic and global commerce. Efficiencies in supply chains lead to competitive advantages, and they make possible global sourcing, just in time delivery systems, and modern global business itself. The velocity and efficiency of each supply chain depends on the infrastructure through which these goods and products flow. The increasingly time-sensitive and integrated nature of modern supply chains make smooth, just-in-time goods movement a critical element in that supply chain’s ability to compete in the global economy. Industry today sees infrastructure as an interconnected network of physical transport facilities, combined with modern information technology systems. The efficiency of this infrastructure -- and the industries that depend on it—is affected by environmental and sustainability considerations, new financing options, education, and regulatory and trade security measures. This speaks to the growing sophistication and complexity of modern supply chains, and their critical reliance on the quality of America’s supply chain infrastructure to support modern, high-tech manufacturing. Industry members have told us that supply chain infrastructure makes a difference because it affects the cost of every single product made or used in the United States. Missing connections and capacity limitations between port and manufacturer lead to delays that raise the price of every American export product and make it harder to compete with international producers. To illustrate this point, a recent Wall Street Journal article reported that a key harbor grain terminal in the Port of Los Angeles lacks enough space to handle the volume of exports arriving from inland producers due to the limited rail service to that terminal. Leading executives have also told us that a nation’s supply chain infrastructure also makes a difference when deciding where their firms will invest, build facilities and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure at the point of decision – the efficiency of the ports, the level of inter-modal connections, the quality of the IT systems, and more – determines in part the attractiveness of a location.
Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 2011, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf [RR]
President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation. Indeed, there’s a long history that when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises. The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. Government investments in basic science brought us the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, innovative businesses has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., and FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the basic regulations, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest. Government spending is also an important part of the economy. Millions of people work for the government and millions more are employed in government-funded work and all those dollars flowing into the economy create even more jobs. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation. In short, the economy continues to suffer from a lack of demand. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest. The federal government can help with this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—investments in roads and bridges, investment in changes that the country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and economists have found that the multipliers are largest when overall demand is weak, like current economic conditions in the United States.5 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other steps taken to address the Great Recession targeted funds toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased investments in infrastructure saved or created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by March 2011. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 Economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, Congress and the administration actually reduced the deficit, relative to where it would be today had no such action been taken. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 Clearly, there is solid evidence that government spending can create jobs in a recession as deep and protracted as the Great Recession. In fact, given current conditions, investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy. This is something that economic forecasters from across the political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending.22 Supply-side economics is not the answer The supply-side mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand. There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. Fair, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 2012, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
Ramey (2011) reviews the literature on estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair (2010) also compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes. After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO (2010) uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output. Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and Barro and Redlick (2011) are concerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concerned with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending (on goods and services) multipliers. Their general result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. The models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually. The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive. For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. A government spending shock (or decrease in taxes) stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect. All this happens even though agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by DeLong and Summers (2012), which argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing—no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable by 2013
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 07-23-2012, “"US Economy Going from Bad to Worse”, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577
A robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the cards, and we should now expect below trend growth for many years to come, according to Nouriel Roubini, the economist famed for his bearish views. Roubini, best-known for calling the 2008 economic crisis, outlined five reasons the bulls have been wrong and argued that an American economic cold will lead the rest of the world to catch pneumonia in a post on the Project Syndicate website. “Even this year, the consensus got it wrong, expecting a recovery to annual GDP growth of better than 3 percent,” the founder of Roubini Global Economics wrote. “And now, after getting the first half of 2012 wrong, many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices, rising auto sales, recovering house prices, and a resurgence of U.S. manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above-potential growth by 2013.” Roubini believes the U.S. economy will slow further this year and next as expectations of the “fiscal cliff” keep spending and growth lower — and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election dogs markets. The fiscal cliff could knock 4.5 percent off 2013 growth if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and spending cuts where triggered, according to Roubini. “Of course, the drag will be much smaller, as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder. But, even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bump — a mere 0.5 percent of GDP — and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 percent, as seems likely, the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed: a growth rate of barely 1 percent,” he wrote. The U.S. consumer, which drives plenty of the global economy as well as the U.S., will not be able to keep spending when $1.4 billion worth of tax cuts and extended transfer payments come to an end according to Roubini. “In 2013, as transfer payments are phased out, however gradually, and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire, disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow. The U.S. will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag, but also its indirect effect on private spending,” he wrote. The problems in the euro zone, a slowdown in China and emerging markets, added to the chance that oil prices could be driven higher by tensions over Iran’s nuclear program, will also add to America’s economic woes, Roubini argued. He warned the Fed will not be able to ride to the rescue this time. “The U.S. Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year, but it will be ineffective: long-term interest rates are already very low, and lowering them further would not boost spending,” he wrote. “Indeed, the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed, with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves. Moreover, the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing.” Roubini also argued that earnings growth is now beginning to run out of steam, after buoying markets earlier in the economic cycle. The second-quarter earnings season has so far presented a mixed picture. “A significant equity-price correction could, in fact, be the force that in 2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction. And if the U.S. starts to sneeze again, the rest of the world — its immunity already weakened by Europe’s malaise and emerging countries’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia,” he warned.r the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”

Stimulus is our only hope for averting a double dip in the short term – all austerity measures fail
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 08-12-2012, “"Dr. Doom" Takes A Look At The Economy”, http://www.npr.org/2012/08/12/158644951/taking-a-doomy-look-at-the-economy [RR]
WERTHEIMER: So are you taking a doomy view of the U.S. economy in the near term? ROUBINI: I am concerned. Economic growth has been very slow. And at the end of the year, there'll be this fiscal cliff and some element of fiscal drag. WERTHEIMER: The fiscal cliff is the decision that the Congress has to make, to either renew the President Bush's tax cuts or permit rather drastic cuts in spending and increases in taxes to take place. ROUBINI: Yes, if all of those things were to occur, the drag on the economy could be very, very large and growth could be close to zero by next year. And we could be stuck and sulk again about stalled speed or a double-dip recession. WERTHEIMER: Now, as you pointed out, you did predict the crash in 2008. But you predicted something that was even more dire than what has happened. You talked about stock markets closing for days or weeks, stock prices going through the floor. Is anything that you're looking at pointing toward anything that serious this time? ROUBINI: Maybe not but there is certainly risk that by next year a perfect global storm may occur. By next year, you might have a disorderly breakup of the eurozone. You might have the fiscal drag leads to another recession in the U.S. China, growth is slowing down - they might have a hard landing. Other emerging markets growth is stalling. And in the Middle East, there is a risk that there may be a military confrontation between Israel and U.S. on one side and Iran of the issue of nuclear proliferation. So there are these five risks. If they were to materialize, then we'll have another global recession and it could be worse than the one we had in 2008/2013. WERTHEIMER: But isn't it also true that Germany might decide to take responsibility for some of the smaller countries and cover their debt; that the Chinese, since they are in such serious control of their economy, that they could manage this landing; that energy prices have been falling in the United States because we are doing so much production on our own, that perhaps we wouldn't hit a horrible bump if Middle Eastern oil quantities went down? I mean there are ways in which it could go this way, or it could go that way. ROUBINI: You're absolutely right. I would argue that in Germany in the core of the eurozone, there is also bailout fatigue. They say, for example, the Greeks had a Big Fat Greek Wedding, not for long weekend but for the last 20 years. We give them a first bailout, a second bailout, many Germans want to pull the plug. In China, you have a new government at the end of the year. Either they move away from net exports, from too much savings, from too much capital investments towards more consumption, or otherwise by next year China could have also a hard landing. In the U.S., we have shale gas. I think it has been hyped a bit too much. It's going to help the energy needs of the U.S., but that revolution may take 10 to 20 years. If there is a war in the Middle East next year, the shock to all prices is going to tip the U.S. into a recession because we're not going to be energy independent for at least another decade. WERTHEIMER: Is there anything that the Federal Reserve can do to avert this crisis that concerns you? ROUBINI: Yes, the Federal Reserve can help and so far it has helped. The fact that the Great Recession of '08/'13 did not turn into another Great Depression is due to the fact that we learned the lessons of the Great Depression. And it means that in the short term we need more fiscal stimulus. The reality however is that we're running out of policy bullets. Politically, we're not going to be able to bailout the banks and the bankers for a second time. I think there will be a political backlash against it. So if things are to turn sour compared to '08, when we had all the policy bullets, this time around would be worse. WERTHEIMER: One of the big themes in this election year is a call for austerity. If that means that the government should drastically cut spending, would it help? Would it avert a crisis or would it bring one on? ROUBINI: Unfortunately the U.S. political system is in a gridlock. And the reality is that in the medium time we have to reduce our budget deficit, and the way to do it is going to be a combination of reforming Social Security and Medicare on one side, but also gradually increasing the tax burden because right now it's very low, especially on those who can pay. And while we have to do fiscal austerity, if we do too much of it, next year or in the next couple of years, the risk, like in the eurozone, is that we end up into another recession because austerity, however necessary, in the short run has a negative effect on economic growth.

Strong growth outweighs all deficits and future cuts
Bret Swanson, President of Entropy Economics a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 05-27-11, “The Growth Imperative”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/
The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed. In most conversations of deficits, entitlements, debt ceilings, and bond markets, economic growth goes unmentioned. In recent days, a few smart policy makers finally whispered it, yet not with the needed volume and specificity. Perhaps the paltry 1.8% first quarter GDP figure, when our recovery should be generating 5% numbers, will get the nation’s attention. Growth today is our biggest problem – but also our biggest opportunity. We’ve all seen the budget charts with steeply sloping outlays and trillion dollar deficits stretching over the horizon, leading inevitably to skyrocketing debt. The responsible people, like those gathered at Pete Peterson’s Fiscal Summit this week, tell us the only solution is to “cut spending and raise taxes” – in dramatic amounts. And of course less spending and more revenue are essential. But the partisan divide between the spending cutters and tax raisers is unlikely to yield a helpful policy path – more likely a muddle of growth killing taxes and out-year NIMTO (not in my term of office) spending cuts. Economic growth, on the other hand, swamps every spending cut and tax rate increase. In 2010, U.S. GDP was $14.66 trillion. Today’s 2% growth rate, over the long-term, would yield output of $17.9 trillion in 2020, $21.8 trillion in 2030, $26.6 trillion in 2040, and $32.4 trillion in 2050. But what if America committed to a bold long range growth goal? I’m no budget expert, but for a presentation to the National Chamber Foundation on May 24, I offered a few simple charts that tell the story. A 4% growth rate would mean almost $4 trillion in additional output in the year 2020, $10 trillion more in 2030, $21 trillion more in 2040, and an astounding $38 trillion more in 2050, when the economy would be more than twice as large had we kept growing at 2%. Over this period, with an arbitrarily chosen 20% tax-to-GDP ratio, a 4% growth rate would generate $109 trillion more revenue than a 2% growth rate. But 4% is wildly optimistic, you say. Perhaps. The consensus long range projection is just 2.5%. Fine, what if we could bump growth to a measly 3%? We would still generate an additional $25 trillion in tax revenue over the 40-year period. Didn’t the Medicare actuary just tell us the program’s unfunded liability is $24.6 trillion? Boosting the share of the economy we collect in taxes doesn’t do any good if the economy lags. Collecting 20% or 25% of GDP in taxes, as some propose, doesn’t get us anywhere close to balance if we grow just 2% or 2.5%. On the other hand, 4% growth with the historical 18% tax-GDP ratio keeps up with even our current profligate spending path. The power of compound growth towers over every other consideration. Rapid economic growth should thus be our chief national objective. We should measure every policy – extant and proposed – against this goal. Do our tax, regulatory, trade, immigration, and social policies help maximize economic growth? Or do they risk depressing our potential growth rate even just a bit? Compound growth is so powerful, no policy that imperils it should be tolerated. This Growth Test should inform and shape every debate. Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest. How do we grow? Immigration, fertility, and longevity are of course factors. In my book, more people are desirable. But the kind of growth we really need is based on an entrepreneurially venturesome economy full of experimentation and discovery. We need more new technologies, more new goods and services, more investors, more new companies. These things generate incremental productivity advances in existing industries and markets, but more importantly they create totally new industries and unlikely life enhancements. The keys are flexibility, investment, technology, and entrepreneurship. The Kauffman Foundation’s Brink Lindsey surmises that the most developed nations, like the U.S., need ever more freedom and entrepreneurship to grow. Developing nations can simply adopt the world’s leading edge technologies and business practices. Their growth path is relatively clear. Not so for us. Because we define the economic and technological frontier, we must keep pushing forward into an uncertain future.

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-2012, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment
Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event, especially for older workers. A paper by the economists Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter estimates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate for males by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the United States. The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also associated with some serious illnesses, although the causal links are poorly understood. Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying of the disease. Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems. The physical and psychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 2011, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

Contention 2 is Solvency


Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

Deficits are inevitable but infrastructure financing now is feasible and provides short and long term growth
William L. Holahan, is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and Charles O. Kroncke, is associate dean in the University of South Florida College of Business, 06-13-2012, :On U.S. infrastructure, spend now, gain later”, http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/on-us-infrastructure-spend-now-gain-later/1234943
When the American Society of Civil Engineers issued a report card giving D and F grades for major infrastructure assets in the United States, the group estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion to rehabilitate them. Even though these public sector assets support the private sector of the economy, and despite the availability of cheap money, Congress has no current plans to remedy this situation. Its reluctance to support investment in infrastructure is unfortunate because this is an opportune time to earn a better report card; presently, we can borrow at very low interest rates to upgrade our streets, roads, bridges, railroads, school buildings, Internet bandwidth and K-12 education. We have earned the trust of foreign investors, who value the safety of our financial markets and seek to loan us money through their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds. In the short run, infrastructure investment would stimulate business growth and employ otherwise unemployed resources of labor and equipment. In the longer run, when these assets are in good working order, they would support faster growth of the economy, a prerequisite for bringing down the national debt and putting workers back on the path to higher after-tax incomes. What are we waiting for? Congressional inaction reflects the public concern over "runaway spending" and the rapid rise in the debt over the past 30 years, and especially the last five. Much of this concern rests on the falsely imagined equivalence of all government spending. But consumption spending and investment spending play very different roles in the economy, whether done by a firm, a family or the government. Our national debate should pivot from a narrow focus on debt alone to one that separates investment from consumption, that is, whether the borrowed money is spent in ways that repayment can be expected through increased future productivity. Carefully chosen infrastructure spending is an investment that pays for itself in greater economic growth; in fact, failure to make these investments can retard growth. Infrastructure investment spending is more likely to be accepted by struggling taxpayers than increased consumption spending on safety net programs such as food stamps or extended unemployment insurance, however dire the need for such programs may be. Seriously? More debt? How often have we heard that the size of our current national debt — some $15 trillion — prevents us from borrowing more money? Even with interest rates this low and opportunities so beneficial, the resistance to further borrowing is quite strong. The false and misleading claim is that we have already "mortgaged the future" and we "don't have the money." These slogans reflect a key concern: the ability to repay the debt. The usual measure of the ability to repay debt is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. Since infrastructure assets have very long lives, this measure should be calculated over a long time horizon. The public debt is projected to grow to $70 trillion over the next 75 years. If we experience 2 percent economic growth, national income over this period will total $2.46 quadrillion. The resulting ratio would be a mere 2.84 percent, demonstrating that as a nation, we are in a position to make cost-beneficial, growth-enhancing investments. Some additional arithmetic makes this point more forcefully. Suppose the infrastructure investments enable the economy to grow just one-tenth of one percent faster (2.1 percent versus 2.0 percent). Due to the power of compound interest, the added GDP over those 75 years is $116 trillion. Yes, the projected national debt is large, much larger than this year's GDP. But arithmetic also shows that failure to invest in growth will deny future generations the enormous gains available from even tiny improvements in economic growth rates.


===1AC - Integration=== 

US success is key – developing countries will look at the NIB to overcome constraints to investment
Justin Yifu Lin, the former World Bank Chief Economist and Senior Vice President, Development Economics, et al., 1-12, [“ Beyond Keynesianism Global Infrastructure Investments in Times of Crisis,” https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/3225/WPS5940.txt?sequence=2]/ E. Liu
The successful implementation of a global infrastructure investment initiative in
developing countries hinges upon two key factors: First, countries will have to make the best of
existing resources by implementing the right bottleneck-releasing projects cost-effectively. Second, developing countries will need to raise the funds necessary to close the infrastructure financing gap. As the scope for increasing government spending may be limited in many developing countries and official development assistance (ODA) flows are unlikely to increase in the near future, developing countries will need to look for new innovative financing mechanisms. They could follow the example of recent infrastructure financing initiatives in advanced economics, such as the National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank in the United States and the Europe 2020 Project Bond Initiative, which use existing resources to attract additional private sector financing. Moreover, governments will need to reduce the risk borne by private investors. The international community could play an important role in assisting countries in overcoming these constraints through targeted financial resources and technical assistance.

Capital exists now but the plan is key to global coordinated investments – provides a sustainable model for developing countries that creates P3 synchronization
Daniel Bond, Senior Finance Advisor for the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance, Daniel Platz is Economic Aff airs Offi cer in the Financing for Development Offi ce of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Aff airs. Magnus Magnusson is the Programme Manager of the Local Finance Initiative of the United Nations Capital Development Fund, May 2012, “Financing small-scale infrastructure investments in developing countries”, http://www.un.org/esa/desa/papers/2012/wp114_2012.pdf [RR]
Usually it involves promoting productive sectors and value chains in which the area has or could have comparative advantages. In pursuing LED, local governments often find that inadequate small-scale infrastructure is the major impediment they face. Yet, with lower fiscal transfers from the central government, little direct support from donors (who prefer to deal directly with central governments) and little own source revenues they frequently cannot provide the necessary funds on their own. With the rather scarce financial resources at their disposal, they face difficulties in meeting operating expenditure requirements and have little revenue to invest in infrastructure. While local governments in high-income countries can rarely fund all their infrastructure needs out of current revenues, they usually can borrow from banks or issue bonds. Unfortunately, this is rarely an option for local governments in most developing countries due to their limited creditworthiness or the lack of credit ratings at the local or international level (Platz, 2009). Likewise, the private sector is rarely prepared to provide either equity or debt financing for small scale infrastructure projects on its own. Local entrepreneurs and poor communities demonstrate skill, knowledge, and willingness to shoulder risks, but are often not recognized by formal institutions and lack access to the longer-term finance necessary for infrastructure development and scale-up. For example, based on its field experience, DFID identifies certain barriers, including high market and project development costs, difficulty to access pre-investment financing, high commercial risks given the low effective demand and limited knowledge about best practice and scaling up, as the reasons for low private sector financing in small-scale decentralized energy services (DFID, 2007). Resolution of this dilemma will require external assistance. Local governments need external assistance in finding ways to overcome the limitations of weak financial systems, in putting together “bankable” projects and in mitigating the perceived technical and financial risks involved in small infrastructure investment. In developing countries, funding for capital expenditures on infrastructure can come from a number of sources. The primary ones are: • Public sector budget • Official development assistance (ODA) • Private sector The public sector provides the largest share of funding for infrastructure. This comes either from current revenues or public borrowing. In low-income countries, a significant share of funding comes from ODA, mostly in the form of grants. The private sector’s share of infrastructure funding in low-income countries is also important, although it tends to be concentrated in specific sectors such as ICT. It is provided in the form of equity or debt invested primarily in large infrastructure projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), where the private sector participates directly with the public sector in projects, is another form of financing. According to data compiled by the Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic (AICD), capital expenditures for large-scale core infrastructure projects in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2001-2006 averaged $24.9 billion annually. Of this 38% came from the public sector, 24% from ODA (both OECD and non-OECD countries) and 38% from the private sector. If small-scale infrastructure spending were included, the public sector’s share would likely be significantly higher (World Bank, 2009, Table 0.4, page 9). Given the nature of infrastructure—high initial sunk cost and long service life—most public and private sector expenditures come not from current revenues but from longer-term forms of financing and the bulk of this financing comes from domestic sources (Irving & Manroth, 2009).6 In developing countries the the banks to refinancing risks that must be passed on to the infrastructure project through increased risk premiums on the loans (Rostogi and Rao, 2011). An important potential source of long term financing for infrastructure are pre-funded pension plans that have experienced rapid growth in many developing countries in recent years. Pension funds in developing countries have risen from an estimated US$422 billion in 2001 to US$1.4 trillion at the end of June 2010 (JP Morgan, 2010) (figure 1). Following the advice of international financial institutions, particularly the World Bank, many developing countries have established such pension systems. Given the rather young population of most of these countries and the recent introduction of such pension plans, the assets held by such pension funds are accumulating very rapidly in many countries. Since payments from these funds occur over a long term and are highly predictable, these pension funds should be investing in long-term assets. Thus, they are an appropriate source for funding for infrastructure, which can provide stable long-term returns. However, in many countries pension funds do not have the skills needed for investing in infrastructure projects. And in most countries, the government regulates pension fund investments and often limits their ability to invest in infrastructure projects directly. To the extent that they are engaged in funding infrastructure it is most commonly through the purchase of government bonds which are then used by the government to fund projects. In addition to pension funds, there are other institutional investors, such as insurance companies, mutual funds and other collective investment schemes that may invest in infrastructure projects. Usually some portion of their assets needs to be invested long-term in order to match their liabilities. Assets from whole life insurance policies are a particularly appropriate source of funds for long-term investments. Whether these entities do invest in infrastructure is determined by the regulatory guidelines under which they operate, their ability to analyze infrastructure projects and the availability of creditworthy infrastructure projects offering good returns. In many developing countries the growth of pension funds and other institutional investor assets has been so rapid that they have outstripped the capacity of the local markets to provide the types of investments such institutions need. Lacking suitable long-term investment options, these assets end up being deposited in banks, earning relatively low rates of return and even distorting the local financial markets by creating excess liquidity. If these assets could instead be used to safely finance small scale infrastructure projects this would not only help develop the economy but it would strengthen the local capital markets as well. The question is whether the domestic savings held by institutional investors in developing countries can be mobilized to provide long-term funding for small infrastructure projects. To facilitate financing for small-scale infrastructure projects in a developing country setting we propose using donor resources to leverage domestic savings. A pooled financing approach designed especially for financing small rural infrastructure on a multi-sector basis was developed in 2009 by the UNCDF “Local Finance Initiative (LFI)” in partnership with the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance.8 This approach includes technical assistance, risk mitigation tools and incentives that can mobilize private sector finance, banks as well as institutional investors, including pension funds, over the longer term. All the elements of this proposal have been tested in infrastructure financing programs already carried out in a number of countries. Some of these programs are described in the appendix to this paper. The above structure illustrates how the projects are financed through a pooled facility by the domestic debt markets. This basic structure would be modified as needed to fi t the country requirements, targeted investors, and projects sponsors from the public and private sectors. Development finance institutions would provide the technical assistance and funding necessary to develop “bankable” project proposals. The projects would need to be able to generate sufficient revenue to cover the projected debt service payments. The revenue can be generated by market sales, off -take agreements, user fees, output-based aid payments by donors, etc. Local governments would not borrow themselves. However, they could . They can also facilitate and support the projects or even invest in them (in cash or in kind, for example by providing land or access/usage rights). In many instances, private companies would also play an important role. They can contribute their knowledge and skill in arranging for financing, in carrying out construction projects and in operating infrastructure facilities. Moreover, they can provide equity investment for projects or they may provide off -take contracts to help secure future project revenues. A number of projects would be financed through a pooled financing facility, or similar credit enhancement financial mechanism. The investors in the facility would have support from one or more development finance institutions that would provide credit enhancement (such as partial credit guarantees or a first-loss facility). The facility would be structured using a non-recourse project finance approach, whereby loans made by the facility would be repaid solely from the cash flows generated by the projects–not from the general financial resources of the project sponsors or local governments. This would shield local government revenue from external creditor claims. Individual projects would be structured so that certain risks, such as construction cost, technical performance, and environmental compliance, are mitigated through contractual undertakings by third-parties. The pooled financing facility would be managed by a strong local bank (the Fund Manager), that would take the principal responsibility for credit analysis of prospective projects. The Fund Manager would seek to obtain participation in the facility from several other local banks and institutional investors. This would spread the credit and reputational risks of participation and enable the participants to improve their skills in credit analysis of project finance. After the initial portfolio of projects has been operating successfully for a few years, it may be possible to restructure the loans into securities that could be refinanced on the local capital market. Pension funds and other institutional investors could invest into senior tranches (those tranches that have the highest repayment priority) thus freeing the banks funds to be redeployed in additional projects. The projects being refinanced would have established good payment performance records and thus be viewed as lower risk, which would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. This model stands in contrast to the more traditional on-lending model of assistance: In order for on-lending to work, there is a need for a lender who has the ability and willingness to make the necessary loans.9 The proposed mechanism assumes that there are few local banks that are prepared to help local governments identify projects, find private sector project sponsors and prepare “bankable” projects. It is too costly for the banks to do this and often the necessary skills are in short supply. Thus, we propose that donors take the lead in the area of project preparation. We are also assuming the local banks have no experience in financing small rural infrastructure projects and will require incentives to provide the funding on acceptable terms unless the donor community is willing to assist them in overcoming this barrier. Hence, we propose that this can be done by risk sharing between banks and donors and/or DFIs.

Specifically infrastructure is key to the African and Latin American economy
Justin Yifu Lin, Chinese economist and former Chief Economist and Senior Vice President of the World Bank, January 2012, “Beyond Keynesianism Global Infrastructure Investments in Times of Crisis”, http://econpapers.repec.org/article/wsijicepx/v_3a03_3ay_3a2012_3ai_3a03_3ap_3a1250015-1-1250015-29.htm [RR]
Infrastructure shortfalls in the developing world are pervasive. Roughly 1.4 billion people have no access to electricity, about 880 million people still live without safe drinking water, and 2.6 billion are without access to basic sanitation (World Bank 2010b). About 1 billion rural dwellers worldwide are estimated to have no access to all-weather roads within two kilometers (International Road Federation 2010). And per capita electricity consumption in Sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa) averages only 124 kilowatt-hours a year, hardly enough to power one light bulb per person for six hours a day (Foster and Briceño-Garmendia 2010). 30. Lack of infrastructure not only impinges on the daily lives of millions, it also renders firms less competitive as productivity, transaction costs, and output quality are adversely affected. Many businesses are never started, since the required infrastructure services are not available. Nowhere is this as apparent as in Sub-Saharan Africa. As electricity services are poor many firms opt for self-generation,19 which on average is more than three times more expensive than electricity from the grid (Foster and Steinbucks 2009). As a result, firms in Mozambique, Benin, Burkina Faso, Senegal, the Gambia, Madagascar, and Niger spend more than 10 percent of their total costs on energy, whereas in China, the cost of energy is only 3 percent of total costs. Losses from power failure alone amounted to 10 percent of sales for the median Tanzanian firm compared to only 1 percent for the median Chinese firm (Eifert, Gelb, and Ramachandran 2005). Many Sub-Saharan Africans are also isolated from access to domestic and global markets (World Bank 2009b). Although about two-thirds of its population lives in rural areas and many countries are landlocked, Sub-Saharan Africa has the lowest road density in the world. Not surprisingly, transport costs are high, representing about 16 percent of firms’ indirect costs (Iarossi 2009). 31. Going forward, the demand for infrastructure services is likely to increase rapidly in developing countries. The per capita GDP of developing countries is expected to grow at more than 5 percent in the medium-term (IMF 2011a), increasing the demand for infrastructure services. Moreover, the world’s population is projected to approach 9 billion by 2050 and more people are likely to move to cities. As a result, the world’s building stock is projected to double by 2050 (World Bank 2011c). 32. Infrastructure is not only a by-product of growth, but can also be an important driver of economic development.20 Economic development in any country is a process of continuous technological innovation, industrial upgrading and diversification, and structural transformation. Countries start with more than 85 percent of the population making a living through agriculture when income levels are low. At this agrarian stage, farmers produce mostly for their own consumption and the need for infrastructure services is limited. When the production moves to manufacturing, economies of scale become larger, and producers will mostly produce for other people and no longer for themselves. As market range expands, good infrastructure will enable entrepreneurs to get their goods and services to market in a secure and timely manner and facilitate the movement of workers to the most suitable jobs (Lin 2011c). In addition, in the presence of global climate change and increasingly intense natural disasters, adequate infrastructure can support sustainable development, minimize vulnerability to natural disasters, and promote reliance on public transportation. 33. Improving infrastructure affects a country’s output through a variety of channels. In the short run, infrastructure investment can create jobs and growth in the local economy. In the longer run, it enhances productivity, increases private capital formation21 (by raising expected returns on private investments as the marginal productivity of inputs increases or transaction costs decline) and facilitates the exploitation of agglomeration economies. Infrastructure may also have a significant effect on health and education outcomes (Agenor and Moreno-Dodson 2006). The construction of all-weather roads in Morocco increased school attendance by girls from 28 percent to 68 percent between 1985 and 1995, as the improvements in roads significantly freed women’s time.22 They also improved health indicators as the number of visits to hospitals and health centers doubled during this time period (World Bank 1996).¶ 34. Empirical cross-country studies confirm that infrastructure investment has a large effect on growth in developing countries. Calderón and Servén (2010a) estimate that as a result of infrastructure investments, annual growth among developing countries increased on average by 1.6 percent between the 1991-95 and 2001-05 periods. This effect was particularly large in South Asia, where it reached 2.7 percent per year. The authors shows that if Sub-Saharan African economies would cut the gap between their level of infrastructure and the average level of infrastructure in Pakistan or India by 50 percent, Central African low-income countries would¶ 21 Using data from Uganda, Reinikka and Svensson (1999), for example, find that unreliable provision of electricity is a significant deterrent to investment.¶ 22 Before road improvements, women had to spend an average of two hours per day collecting and carrying wood for fuel. Butane gas, used extensively in urban areas, did not reach the rural areas due to the high transport and distribution costs. Initially, a bottle of butane cost 20 Dh. Following improvement of the road, the price dropped considerably, to as low as 11 Dh, making it affordable for many families (World Bank 1996).¶ 15¶ grow on average by an additional 2.2 percentage points and East and West African countries by an additional 1.6 percentage points (Calderón and Servén 2010a). Similarly, if each Latin American country would match the average level of infrastructure observed among non-Latin American middle income countries (such as Turkey or Bulgaria), growth in Latin America would rise approximately by 2 percentage points per year (Calderón and Servén 2010b).

That checks African instability
Ernst Stetter, Secretary General of Federation for European Progressive Studies, 2009, “Why Africa matters! – The economic crisis and Africa”, http://policydialogue.org/files/events/Stetter_Why_Africa_Matters.pdf [RR]
There is a need for Africa to develop a strategy which allows it to convert the gains into durable economic stability and sustainable growth, something the continent failed to achieve in earlier decades. The progress on the Millennium Development Goals is irregular, but generally there is an existing progress. One has to observe now during 2009 what the effects due to the world economic crisis will be. On the political side, the African Union (AU) is a credible attempt at unity and integration, albeit without the pooling of sovereignty, a characteristic of the EU model for example. Some of the regional economic communities have become functional (ECOWAS), although others remain still "paper elephants" (EAU). Many resource rich African countries are in a position of power, but this strength is at the mercy of the ups and downs of commodity prices. Such situations have existed in the past and not led to durable development in Africa. A key issue for those countries would be to emulate the diversification strategies and growth trajectory of other resource rich countries such as Malaysia or Norway, Australia and New-Zealand. This requires not only a real strategy for a countries’ response to globalisation, but also strong economic and political governance. The resource poor countries in Africa have very little to attract international political and economical attention if it is not their misery or conflict itself. Furthermore: There is clear evidence that Africa is increasingly becoming the victim of the global governance system. What needs to change is the political and economic governance in Africa. But this is first and foremost an internal African problem. The entire international system of cooperation has tried for more than 30 years to assist, support and contribute to more democracy, better economic growth and good governance. Africa’s inability to assume its fair place in the international system is first an internal problem of Africa “elites”. It is still the case that political and economic leaders do not seem willing or capable to develop the potentials of the globalizing world for the continent. On the global level, a functional multilateralism could provide opportunities for Africa as an emerging international actor to take a role in some of the challenges directly affecting it (which are for the time being dealt within institutions where African influence is marginal), while leaving the door open for a more comprehensive international transformation that may flow from the progressive African integration, economic growth and UN reform. Functional multilateralism does not require substantial yielding of sovereignty Secondly there is also the structure of global governance that has held Africa hostage for many years and made it impossible for Africa to assume its rightful place in the international system. There is no doubt that China’s renewed interest upon the continent and the nature of Chinese investment in Africa has raised some concerns in Europe and in the United States. Those concerns are manifestly a strong response to the question why Africa matters. Does Africa matter? Can we really assume that Africa matters because of its strategic importance especially within the context of global politics of resources? If there is no doubt that Africa is endowed with abundant natural resources, it is also true that Africa is still struggling to address the multiple challenges facing the continent, this includes poverty, under-development, protracted conflicts, environmental degradation, HIV/AIDS pandemic, tuberculosis and malaria. It has been suggested that all over Africa, poverty is a common denominator and it is not surprising that people’s immune systems have been damaged. Reports on Africa’s HIV/AIDS pandemic have all come to the conclusion that HIV/AIDS on the continent is closely associated to poverty. It is clear that the absence of technological investment and the contemning human resource capacity has prevented Africa from making optimal use of its abundant resources for the benefit of its people.

Nuclear war
Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al. 11 Michael Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al., Nathalie Tocci, Richard Youngs Jean-Pierre Cassarino, Christian Egenhofer, Giovanni Grevi , 7-11, [“Global Matrix ,” CEPS Working Documents, www.ceps.eu/ceps/download/5936] E. Liu
Drivers. The end of the Cold war has seen a questioning of the role of the state in relation to international security and society. Whereas democratic developments legitimized opposition movements to mobilize and oust authoritarian regimes, the related notion of selfdetermination unleashed ethno-nationalism and secessionism. Hence the picture has become one of fewer inter-state conflicts but more intra-state ethno-political conflicts. At the transnational level, globalization is mounting further challenges to the state, under the influences of deepening trade and investment driven by multinational corporations, movements of people, and transnational civil society, as well as criminal gangs, terrorist networks and militias. In an increasingly interconnected world, conflicts that once might have remained local disputes can have global impact. Unstable and ungoverned regions of the world pose dangers for neighbors and a setting for broader problems of terrorism, poverty and despair. The technology and knowledge to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction is proliferating among some of the most ruthless factions and regimes on earth. The Cold War threat of global nuclear war has diminished, but the risk of a nuclear disaster has gone up. Scientific advances have enhanced biology’s potential for both beneficence and malevolence by state and non-state actors alike. Impact on the world order. These trends have led to diverse repercussions. The international community has become more sensitive to human conditions worldwide. This has added to the weight in favor of humanitarian interventions,56 multilateral institutions protecting human security, and universal jurisdiction (e.g. the ICC or International Criminal Tribunals).57 More b+9 roadly, the rise of civil society has induced and legitimized transformational approaches to conflicts.58 At the same time, transnational developments have spurred ‘new wars’,59 where formerly localized conflicts acquire global proportions. These trends also mean that, while conventional military means are still heavily relied upon (e.g., Afghanistan, Iraq) these are seen to be ill-equipped to deal with conflicts marked by rebellions, terrorism and crime. The changing nature of security challenges and responses of major actors will shape the evolution of global security affairs. In order to understand such impacts this project will select a set of empirical case studies (e.g., the Iranian nuclear question, Afghanistan, Iraq, Middle East and Sudan).

Instability causes failed states and conflict – leads to terrorism
Liana Sun Wyler, Analyst in International Crime and Narcotics Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 8-28-08, “Weak and Failing States: Evolving Security Threats and U.S. Policy,” Congressional Research Service, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34253.pdf
Analysts identify numerous links between weak and failing states and transnational security threats, ranging from terrorism and nuclear proliferation to the spread of infectious diseases, environmental degradation, and energy security. U.S. national security documents generally address weak states in relation to four key threat areas: (1) terrorism, (2) international crime, (3) nuclear proliferation, and (4) regional instability. Other analysts caution, however, that despite anecdotal evidence supporting a potential nexus between state weakness and today’s security threats, weak states may not necessarily harbor U.S. national security threats. Furthermore, the weakest states may not necessarily be the most significant threats to U.S. national security; relatively functional states, characterized by some elements of weakness rather than complete state collapse, may also be sites from which threats can emerge. Terrorism. According to several analyses, weak and failing states are perceived as “primary bases of operations” for most U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organizations, including Al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, and Jaish-IMohammed.11 Terrorists can benefit from lax or non-existent law enforcement in these states to participate in illicit economic activities to finance their operations and ease their access to weapons and other equipment.12 As with Afghanistan in 2001, weak and failing states can also be ideal settings for terrorist training grounds, when the host country’s government is unable to control or govern parts of its territory. States mired in conflict also provide terrorists with opportunities to gain on-theground paramilitary experience.13 Researchers find, however, that not all weak states serve as safe havens for international terrorists.14 Terrorists have been known to exploit safe havens in nonweak as well as weak states. The Political Instability Task Force, a research group commissioned by the Central Intelligence Agency, found in a 2003 report that terrorists operate in both “caves” (i.e., failed states, where militant groups can exist with impunity) and “condos” (i.e., states that have the infrastructure to support the international flow of illicit people, funds, and information). The preference for “condos” suggests that countries most devoid of functioning government institutions may sometimes be less conducive to a terrorist presence than countries that are still weak, but retain some governmental effectiveness.15 International Crime. As with terrorist groups, international criminal organizations benefit from safe havens that weak and failing states provide. According to the U.S. Interagenccy Working Group report on international crime, weak states can be useful sites through which criminals can move illicit contraband and launder their proceeds, due to unenforced laws and high levels of official corruption.16 Since the Cold War, the international community has seen a surge in the number of transnational crime groups emerging in safe havens of weak, conflictprone states — especially in the Balkans, Central Asia, and West Africa. Criminal groups can thrive off the illicit needs of failing states, especially those subject to international sactions; regimes and rebel groups have been known to solicit the services of vast illicit arms trafficking networks to fuel deadly conflicts in countries such as Afghanistan, Angola, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Sudan when arms embargoes had been imposed by the United Nations and other members of the international community.17 Links between transnational crime and terrorists groups are also apparent: Al Qaeda and Hezbollah have worked with several criminal actors, ranging from rebel groups in the West African diamond trade to crime groups in the TriBorder region of Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay, among others.18 In 2008, a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) official stated that at least 19 of 43 Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) listed by the State Department have established links to drug trafficking.19 Some researchers contend, however, that the weakest states are not necessarily the most attractive states for international criminals. This may be because some illicit transnational groups might be too dependent on access to global financial services, modern telecommunication systems, transportation, and infrastructure that do not exist in weak states. Researchers also find that some forms of international crime are more associated with weak states than others. Narcotics trafficking and illicit arms smuggling, for example, often flow through weak states. However, other types, such as counterfeiting and financial fraud, may be more prevalent in wealthier states.20 Weapons Proliferation. Weak and failing states, unable or unwilling to guarantee the security of nuclear, chemical, biological, and radiological (CBRN) materials and related equipment, may facilitate underground networks that smuggle them. Endemic corruption and weak border controls raise the possibility of these states being used as transshipment points for illicit CBRN trafficking. Porous international borders and weak international controls have contributed to 1,080 confirmed nuclear and radiological material trafficking cases by member states from 1993 to 2006, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.21 The majority of smuggled nuclear material reportedly originates in Central Asia and the Caucasus where known stockpiles are said to be inadequately monitored.22 Other sources of concern include poorly secured materials in research, industrial, and medical facilities. A relatively new region of concern for the United States is Africa, where more than 18% of the world’s known recoverable uranium resources exist. Lax regulations, weak governments, and remotely located mines that are difficult to supervise combine to make the removal and trafficking of radioactive substances in Africa “a very real prospect.”23 Analysts also contend that while the potential for weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) trafficking through weak states is considerable, most weak states may be unlikely destinations for smuggled WMD devices. Such equipment requires a certain level of technological sophistication that may not exist in some weak and failing states.24 Regional Instability. According to recent research, states do not always become weak or failed in isolation — and the spread of instability across a region can serve as a critical multiplier of state vulnerability to threats. Instability has a tendency to spread beyond a weak state’s political borders, through overwhelming refugee flows, increased arms smuggling, breakdowns in regional trade, and many other ways.25 The National Intelligence Council acknowledges that state failure and its associated regional implications pose an “enormous cost in resources and time” to the United States.26

Terrorist attacks can escalate to nuclear war with China or Russia
Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 7-10, [“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, http://www.the3nr.com/2010/07/14/excellent-new-terrorism-impact-card/] E. Liu
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that some sort of terrorist attack, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.

US-Russia war is the biggest existential threat
Nick Bostrom has a PhD in Philosophy at Oxford 2002 [Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.
===1AC Memorial=== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national infrastructure bank.


Contention 1 is the Economy
Transportation infrastructure decline is inevitable in the status quo – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert Puentes et al, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585 [RR]
Most experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations. But for too long, the nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy. The benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars. And it means so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate. We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. Infrastructure is fundamental to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States. Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank could easily leverage $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $1 trillion over a decade. Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences. Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. Too often, however, pressed by day-to-day concerns, state and local governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral of investment until a time when surpluses return. Unfortunately, this pattern has been repeated for decades, and the accumulation of deferred maintenance and deferred investment in future infrastructure has led to an unsatisfactory status quo. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial. The private sector can be a strong partner to government. By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity.

Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 2011, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf [RR]
President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation. Indeed, there’s a long history that when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises. The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. Government investments in basic science brought us the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, innovative businesses has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., and FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the basic regulations, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest. Government spending is also an important part of the economy. Millions of people work for the government and millions more are employed in government-funded work and all those dollars flowing into the economy create even more jobs. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation. In short, the economy continues to suffer from a lack of demand. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest. The federal government can help with this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—investments in roads and bridges, investment in changes that the country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and economists have found that the multipliers are largest when overall demand is weak, like current economic conditions in the United States.5 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other steps taken to address the Great Recession targeted funds toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased investments in infrastructure saved or created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by March 2011. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 Economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, Congress and the administration actually reduced the deficit, relative to where it would be today had no such action been taken. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 Clearly, there is solid evidence that government spending can create jobs in a recession as deep and protracted as the Great Recession. In fact, given current conditions, investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy. This is something that economic forecasters from across the political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending.22 Supply-side economics is not the answer The supply-side mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand. There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. Fair, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 2012, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
Ramey (2011) reviews the literature on estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair (2010) also compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes. After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO (2010) uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output. Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and Barro and Redlick (2011) are concerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concerned with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending (on goods and services) multipliers. Their general result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. The models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually. The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive. For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. A government spending shock (or decrease in taxes) stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect. All this happens even though agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by DeLong and Summers (2012), which argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing—no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable by 2013
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 07-23-2012, “"US Economy Going from Bad to Worse”, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577
A robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the cards, and we should now expect below trend growth for many years to come, according to Nouriel Roubini, the economist famed for his bearish views. Roubini, best-known for calling the 2008 economic crisis, outlined five reasons the bulls have been wrong and argued that an American economic cold will lead the rest of the world to catch pneumonia in a post on the Project Syndicate website. “Even this year, the consensus got it wrong, expecting a recovery to annual GDP growth of better than 3 percent,” the founder of Roubini Global Economics wrote. “And now, after getting the first half of 2012 wrong, many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices, rising auto sales, recovering house prices, and a resurgence of U.S. manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above-potential growth by 2013.” Roubini believes the U.S. economy will slow further this year and next as expectations of the “fiscal cliff” keep spending and growth lower — and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election dogs markets. The fiscal cliff could knock 4.5 percent off 2013 growth if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and spending cuts where triggered, according to Roubini. “Of course, the drag will be much smaller, as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder. But, even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bump — a mere 0.5 percent of GDP — and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 percent, as seems likely, the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed: a growth rate of barely 1 percent,” he wrote. The U.S. consumer, which drives plenty of the global economy as well as the U.S., will not be able to keep spending when $1.4 billion worth of tax cuts and extended transfer payments come to an end according to Roubini. “In 2013, as transfer payments are phased out, however gradually, and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire, disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow. The U.S. will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag, but also its indirect effect on private spending,” he wrote. The problems in the euro zone, a slowdown in China and emerging markets, added to the chance that oil prices could be driven higher by tensions over Iran’s nuclear program, will also add to America’s economic woes, Roubini argued. He warned the Fed will not be able to ride to the rescue this time. “The U.S. Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year, but it will be ineffective: long-term interest rates are already very low, and lowering them further would not boost spending,” he wrote. “Indeed, the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed, with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves. Moreover, the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing.” Roubini also argued that earnings growth is now beginning to run out of steam, after buoying markets earlier in the economic cycle. The second-quarter earnings season has so far presented a mixed picture. “A significant equity-price correction could, in fact, be the force that in 2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction. And if the U.S. starts to sneeze again, the rest of the world — its immunity already weakened by Europe’s malaise and emerging countries’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia,” he warned.r the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-2012, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment
Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event, especially for older workers. A paper by the economists Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter estimates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate for males by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the United States. The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also associated with some serious illnesses, although the causal links are poorly understood. Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying of the disease. Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems. The physical and psychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 2011, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.
Contention 2 is Integration

US success is key – developing countries will look at the NIB to overcome constraints to investment
Justin Yifu Lin, the former World Bank Chief Economist and Senior Vice President, Development Economics, et al., 1-12, [“ Beyond Keynesianism Global Infrastructure Investments in Times of Crisis,” https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/3225/WPS5940.txt?sequence=2]/ E. Liu
The successful implementation of a global infrastructure investment initiative in
developing countries hinges upon two key factors: First, countries will have to make the best of
existing resources by implementing the right bottleneck-releasing projects cost-effectively. Second, developing countries will need to raise the funds necessary to close the infrastructure financing gap. As the scope for increasing government spending may be limited in many developing countries and official development assistance (ODA) flows are unlikely to increase in the near future, developing countries will need to look for new innovative financing mechanisms. They could follow the example of recent infrastructure financing initiatives in advanced economics, such as the National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank in the United States and the Europe 2020 Project Bond Initiative, which use existing resources to attract additional private sector financing. Moreover, governments will need to reduce the risk borne by private investors. The international community could play an important role in assisting countries in overcoming these constraints through targeted financial resources and technical assistance.

Capital exists now but the plan is key to global coordinated investments – provides a sustainable model for developing countries that creates P3 synchronization
Daniel Bond, Senior Finance Advisor for the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance, Daniel Platz is Economic Aff airs Offi cer in the Financing for Development Offi ce of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Aff airs. Magnus Magnusson is the Programme Manager of the Local Finance Initiative of the United Nations Capital Development Fund, May 2012, “Financing small-scale infrastructure investments in developing countries”, http://www.un.org/esa/desa/papers/2012/wp114_2012.pdf [RR]
Usually it involves promoting productive sectors and value chains in which the area has or could have comparative advantages. In pursuing LED, local governments often find that inadequate small-scale infrastructure is the major impediment they face. Yet, with lower fiscal transfers from the central government, little direct support from donors (who prefer to deal directly with central governments) and little own source revenues they frequently cannot provide the necessary funds on their own. With the rather scarce financial resources at their disposal, they face difficulties in meeting operating expenditure requirements and have little revenue to invest in infrastructure. While local governments in high-income countries can rarely fund all their infrastructure needs out of current revenues, they usually can borrow from banks or issue bonds. Unfortunately, this is rarely an option for local governments in most developing countries due to their limited creditworthiness or the lack of credit ratings at the local or international level (Platz, 2009). Likewise, the private sector is rarely prepared to provide either equity or debt financing for small scale infrastructure projects on its own. Local entrepreneurs and poor communities demonstrate skill, knowledge, and willingness to shoulder risks, but are often not recognized by formal institutions and lack access to the longer-term finance necessary for infrastructure development and scale-up. For example, based on its field experience, DFID identifies certain barriers, including high market and project development costs, difficulty to access pre-investment financing, high commercial risks given the low effective demand and limited knowledge about best practice and scaling up, as the reasons for low private sector financing in small-scale decentralized energy services (DFID, 2007). Resolution of this dilemma will require external assistance. Local governments need external assistance in finding ways to overcome the limitations of weak financial systems, in putting together “bankable” projects and in mitigating the perceived technical and financial risks involved in small infrastructure investment. In developing countries, funding for capital expenditures on infrastructure can come from a number of sources. The primary ones are: • Public sector budget • Official development assistance (ODA) • Private sector The public sector provides the largest share of funding for infrastructure. This comes either from current revenues or public borrowing. In low-income countries, a significant share of funding comes from ODA, mostly in the form of grants. The private sector’s share of infrastructure funding in low-income countries is also important, although it tends to be concentrated in specific sectors such as ICT. It is provided in the form of equity or debt invested primarily in large infrastructure projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), where the private sector participates directly with the public sector in projects, is another form of financing. According to data compiled by the Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic (AICD), capital expenditures for large-scale core infrastructure projects in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2001-2006 averaged $24.9 billion annually. Of this 38% came from the public sector, 24% from ODA (both OECD and non-OECD countries) and 38% from the private sector. If small-scale infrastructure spending were included, the public sector’s share would likely be significantly higher (World Bank, 2009, Table 0.4, page 9). Given the nature of infrastructure—high initial sunk cost and long service life—most public and private sector expenditures come not from current revenues but from longer-term forms of financing and the bulk of this financing comes from domestic sources (Irving & Manroth, 2009).6 In developing countries the the banks to refinancing risks that must be passed on to the infrastructure project through increased risk premiums on the loans (Rostogi and Rao, 2011). An important potential source of long term financing for infrastructure are pre-funded pension plans that have experienced rapid growth in many developing countries in recent years. Pension funds in developing countries have risen from an estimated US$422 billion in 2001 to US$1.4 trillion at the end of June 2010 (JP Morgan, 2010) (figure 1). Following the advice of international financial institutions, particularly the World Bank, many developing countries have established such pension systems. Given the rather young population of most of these countries and the recent introduction of such pension plans, the assets held by such pension funds are accumulating very rapidly in many countries. Since payments from these funds occur over a long term and are highly predictable, these pension funds should be investing in long-term assets. Thus, they are an appropriate source for funding for infrastructure, which can provide stable long-term returns. However, in many countries pension funds do not have the skills needed for investing in infrastructure projects. And in most countries, the government regulates pension fund investments and often limits their ability to invest in infrastructure projects directly. To the extent that they are engaged in funding infrastructure it is most commonly through the purchase of government bonds which are then used by the government to fund projects. In addition to pension funds, there are other institutional investors, such as insurance companies, mutual funds and other collective investment schemes that may invest in infrastructure projects. Usually some portion of their assets needs to be invested long-term in order to match their liabilities. Assets from whole life insurance policies are a particularly appropriate source of funds for long-term investments. Whether these entities do invest in infrastructure is determined by the regulatory guidelines under which they operate, their ability to analyze infrastructure projects and the availability of creditworthy infrastructure projects offering good returns. In many developing countries the growth of pension funds and other institutional investor assets has been so rapid that they have outstripped the capacity of the local markets to provide the types of investments such institutions need. Lacking suitable long-term investment options, these assets end up being deposited in banks, earning relatively low rates of return and even distorting the local financial markets by creating excess liquidity. If these assets could instead be used to safely finance small scale infrastructure projects this would not only help develop the economy but it would strengthen the local capital markets as well. The question is whether the domestic savings held by institutional investors in developing countries can be mobilized to provide long-term funding for small infrastructure projects. To facilitate financing for small-scale infrastructure projects in a developing country setting we propose using donor resources to leverage domestic savings. A pooled financing approach designed especially for financing small rural infrastructure on a multi-sector basis was developed in 2009 by the UNCDF “Local Finance Initiative (LFI)” in partnership with the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance.8 This approach includes technical assistance, risk mitigation tools and incentives that can mobilize private sector finance, banks as well as institutional investors, including pension funds, over the longer term. All the elements of this proposal have been tested in infrastructure financing programs already carried out in a number of countries. Some of these programs are described in the appendix to this paper. The above structure illustrates how the projects are financed through a pooled facility by the domestic debt markets. This basic structure would be modified as needed to fi t the country requirements, targeted investors, and projects sponsors from the public and private sectors. Development finance institutions would provide the technical assistance and funding necessary to develop “bankable” project proposals. The projects would need to be able to generate sufficient revenue to cover the projected debt service payments. The revenue can be generated by market sales, off -take agreements, user fees, output-based aid payments by donors, etc. Local governments would not borrow themselves. However, they could . They can also facilitate and support the projects or even invest in them (in cash or in kind, for example by providing land or access/usage rights). In many instances, private companies would also play an important role. They can contribute their knowledge and skill in arranging for financing, in carrying out construction projects and in operating infrastructure facilities. Moreover, they can provide equity investment for projects or they may provide off -take contracts to help secure future project revenues. A number of projects would be financed through a pooled financing facility, or similar credit enhancement financial mechanism. The investors in the facility would have support from one or more development finance institutions that would provide credit enhancement (such as partial credit guarantees or a first-loss facility). The facility would be structured using a non-recourse project finance approach, whereby loans made by the facility would be repaid solely from the cash flows generated by the projects–not from the general financial resources of the project sponsors or local governments. This would shield local government revenue from external creditor claims. Individual projects would be structured so that certain risks, such as construction cost, technical performance, and environmental compliance, are mitigated through contractual undertakings by third-parties. The pooled financing facility would be managed by a strong local bank (the Fund Manager), that would take the principal responsibility for credit analysis of prospective projects. The Fund Manager would seek to obtain participation in the facility from several other local banks and institutional investors. This would spread the credit and reputational risks of participation and enable the participants to improve their skills in credit analysis of project finance. After the initial portfolio of projects has been operating successfully for a few years, it may be possible to restructure the loans into securities that could be refinanced on the local capital market. Pension funds and other institutional investors could invest into senior tranches (those tranches that have the highest repayment priority) thus freeing the banks funds to be redeployed in additional projects. The projects being refinanced would have established good payment performance records and thus be viewed as lower risk, which would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. This model stands in contrast to the more traditional on-lending model of assistance: In order for on-lending to work, there is a need for a lender who has the ability and willingness to make the necessary loans.9 The proposed mechanism assumes that there are few local banks that are prepared to help local governments identify projects, find private sector project sponsors and prepare “bankable” projects. It is too costly for the banks to do this and often the necessary skills are in short supply. Thus, we propose that donors take the lead in the area of project preparation. We are also assuming the local banks have no experience in financing small rural infrastructure projects and will require incentives to provide the funding on acceptable terms unless the donor community is willing to assist them in overcoming this barrier. Hence, we propose that this can be done by risk sharing between banks and donors and/or DFIs.

Specifically infrastructure is key to the African and Latin American economy
Justin Yifu Lin, Chinese economist and former Chief Economist and Senior Vice President of the World Bank, January 2012, “Beyond Keynesianism Global Infrastructure Investments in Times of Crisis”, http://econpapers.repec.org/article/wsijicepx/v_3a03_3ay_3a2012_3ai_3a03_3ap_3a1250015-1-1250015-29.htm [RR]
Infrastructure shortfalls in the developing world are pervasive. Roughly 1.4 billion people have no access to electricity, about 880 million people still live without safe drinking water, and 2.6 billion are without access to basic sanitation (World Bank 2010b). About 1 billion rural dwellers worldwide are estimated to have no access to all-weather roads within two kilometers (International Road Federation 2010). And per capita electricity consumption in Sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa) averages only 124 kilowatt-hours a year, hardly enough to power one light bulb per person for six hours a day (Foster and Briceño-Garmendia 2010). 30. Lack of infrastructure not only impinges on the daily lives of millions, it also renders firms less competitive as productivity, transaction costs, and output quality are adversely affected. Many businesses are never started, since the required infrastructure services are not available. Nowhere is this as apparent as in Sub-Saharan Africa. As electricity services are poor many firms opt for self-generation,19 which on average is more than three times more expensive than electricity from the grid (Foster and Steinbucks 2009). As a result, firms in Mozambique, Benin, Burkina Faso, Senegal, the Gambia, Madagascar, and Niger spend more than 10 percent of their total costs on energy, whereas in China, the cost of energy is only 3 percent of total costs. Losses from power failure alone amounted to 10 percent of sales for the median Tanzanian firm compared to only 1 percent for the median Chinese firm (Eifert, Gelb, and Ramachandran 2005). Many Sub-Saharan Africans are also isolated from access to domestic and global markets (World Bank 2009b). Although about two-thirds of its population lives in rural areas and many countries are landlocked, Sub-Saharan Africa has the lowest road density in the world. Not surprisingly, transport costs are high, representing about 16 percent of firms’ indirect costs (Iarossi 2009). 31. Going forward, the demand for infrastructure services is likely to increase rapidly in developing countries. The per capita GDP of developing countries is expected to grow at more than 5 percent in the medium-term (IMF 2011a), increasing the demand for infrastructure services. Moreover, the world’s population is projected to approach 9 billion by 2050 and more people are likely to move to cities. As a result, the world’s building stock is projected to double by 2050 (World Bank 2011c). 32. Infrastructure is not only a by-product of growth, but can also be an important driver of economic development.20 Economic development in any country is a process of continuous technological innovation, industrial upgrading and diversification, and structural transformation. Countries start with more than 85 percent of the population making a living through agriculture when income levels are low. At this agrarian stage, farmers produce mostly for their own consumption and the need for infrastructure services is limited. When the production moves to manufacturing, economies of scale become larger, and producers will mostly produce for other people and no longer for themselves. As market range expands, good infrastructure will enable entrepreneurs to get their goods and services to market in a secure and timely manner and facilitate the movement of workers to the most suitable jobs (Lin 2011c). In addition, in the presence of global climate change and increasingly intense natural disasters, adequate infrastructure can support sustainable development, minimize vulnerability to natural disasters, and promote reliance on public transportation. 33. Improving infrastructure affects a country’s output through a variety of channels. In the short run, infrastructure investment can create jobs and growth in the local economy. In the longer run, it enhances productivity, increases private capital formation21 (by raising expected returns on private investments as the marginal productivity of inputs increases or transaction costs decline) and facilitates the exploitation of agglomeration economies. Infrastructure may also have a significant effect on health and education outcomes (Agenor and Moreno-Dodson 2006). The construction of all-weather roads in Morocco increased school attendance by girls from 28 percent to 68 percent between 1985 and 1995, as the improvements in roads significantly freed women’s time.22 They also improved health indicators as the number of visits to hospitals and health centers doubled during this time period (World Bank 1996).¶ 34. Empirical cross-country studies confirm that infrastructure investment has a large effect on growth in developing countries. Calderón and Servén (2010a) estimate that as a result of infrastructure investments, annual growth among developing countries increased on average by 1.6 percent between the 1991-95 and 2001-05 periods. This effect was particularly large in South Asia, where it reached 2.7 percent per year. The authors shows that if Sub-Saharan African economies would cut the gap between their level of infrastructure and the average level of infrastructure in Pakistan or India by 50 percent, Central African low-income countries would¶ 21 Using data from Uganda, Reinikka and Svensson (1999), for example, find that unreliable provision of electricity is a significant deterrent to investment.¶ 22 Before road improvements, women had to spend an average of two hours per day collecting and carrying wood for fuel. Butane gas, used extensively in urban areas, did not reach the rural areas due to the high transport and distribution costs. Initially, a bottle of butane cost 20 Dh. Following improvement of the road, the price dropped considerably, to as low as 11 Dh, making it affordable for many families (World Bank 1996).¶ 15¶ grow on average by an additional 2.2 percentage points and East and West African countries by an additional 1.6 percentage points (Calderón and Servén 2010a). Similarly, if each Latin American country would match the average level of infrastructure observed among non-Latin American middle income countries (such as Turkey or Bulgaria), growth in Latin America would rise approximately by 2 percentage points per year (Calderón and Servén 2010b).

That checks African instability
Ernst Stetter, Secretary General of Federation for European Progressive Studies, 2009, “Why Africa matters! – The economic crisis and Africa”, http://policydialogue.org/files/events/Stetter_Why_Africa_Matters.pdf [RR]
There is a need for Africa to develop a strategy which allows it to convert the gains into durable economic stability and sustainable growth, something the continent failed to achieve in earlier decades. The progress on the Millennium Development Goals is irregular, but generally there is an existing progress. One has to observe now during 2009 what the effects due to the world economic crisis will be. On the political side, the African Union (AU) is a credible attempt at unity and integration, albeit without the pooling of sovereignty, a characteristic of the EU model for example. Some of the regional economic communities have become functional (ECOWAS), although others remain still "paper elephants" (EAU). Many resource rich African countries are in a position of power, but this strength is at the mercy of the ups and downs of commodity prices. Such situations have existed in the past and not led to durable development in Africa. A key issue for those countries would be to emulate the diversification strategies and growth trajectory of other resource rich countries such as Malaysia or Norway, Australia and New-Zealand. This requires not only a real strategy for a countries’ response to globalisation, but also strong economic and political governance. The resource poor countries in Africa have very little to attract international political and economical attention if it is not their misery or conflict itself. Furthermore: There is clear evidence that Africa is increasingly becoming the victim of the global governance system. What needs to change is the political and economic governance in Africa. But this is first and foremost an internal African problem. The entire international system of cooperation has tried for more than 30 years to assist, support and contribute to more democracy, better economic growth and good governance. Africa’s inability to assume its fair place in the international system is first an internal problem of Africa “elites”. It is still the case that political and economic leaders do not seem willing or capable to develop the potentials of the globalizing world for the continent. On the global level, a functional multilateralism could provide opportunities for Africa as an emerging international actor to take a role in some of the challenges directly affecting it (which are for the time being dealt within institutions where African influence is marginal), while leaving the door open for a more comprehensive international transformation that may flow from the progressive African integration, economic growth and UN reform. Functional multilateralism does not require substantial yielding of sovereignty Secondly there is also the structure of global governance that has held Africa hostage for many years and made it impossible for Africa to assume its rightful place in the international system. There is no doubt that China’s renewed interest upon the continent and the nature of Chinese investment in Africa has raised some concerns in Europe and in the United States. Those concerns are manifestly a strong response to the question why Africa matters. Does Africa matter? Can we really assume that Africa matters because of its strategic importance especially within the context of global politics of resources? If there is no doubt that Africa is endowed with abundant natural resources, it is also true that Africa is still struggling to address the multiple challenges facing the continent, this includes poverty, under-development, protracted conflicts, environmental degradation, HIV/AIDS pandemic, tuberculosis and malaria. It has been suggested that all over Africa, poverty is a common denominator and it is not surprising that people’s immune systems have been damaged. Reports on Africa’s HIV/AIDS pandemic have all come to the conclusion that HIV/AIDS on the continent is closely associated to poverty. It is clear that the absence of technological investment and the contemning human resource capacity has prevented Africa from making optimal use of its abundant resources for the benefit of its people.

Nuclear war
Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al. 11 Michael Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al., Nathalie Tocci, Richard Youngs Jean-Pierre Cassarino, Christian Egenhofer, Giovanni Grevi , 7-11, [“Global Matrix ,” CEPS Working Documents, www.ceps.eu/ceps/download/5936] E. Liu
Drivers. The end of the Cold war has seen a questioning of the role of the state in relation to international security and society. Whereas democratic developments legitimized opposition movements to mobilize and oust authoritarian regimes, the related notion of selfdetermination unleashed ethno-nationalism and secessionism. Hence the picture has become one of fewer inter-state conflicts but more intra-state ethno-political conflicts. At the transnational level, globalization is mounting further challenges to the state, under the influences of deepening trade and investment driven by multinational corporations, movements of people, and transnational civil society, as well as criminal gangs, terrorist networks and militias. In an increasingly interconnected world, conflicts that once might have remained local disputes can have global impact. Unstable and ungoverned regions of the world pose dangers for neighbors and a setting for broader problems of terrorism, poverty and despair. The technology and knowledge to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction is proliferating among some of the most ruthless factions and regimes on earth. The Cold War threat of global nuclear war has diminished, but the risk of a nuclear disaster has gone up. Scientific advances have enhanced biology’s potential for both beneficence and malevolence by state and non-state actors alike. Impact on the world order. These trends have led to diverse repercussions. The international community has become more sensitive to human conditions worldwide. This has added to the weight in favor of humanitarian interventions,56 multilateral institutions protecting human security, and universal jurisdiction (e.g. the ICC or International Criminal Tribunals).57 More b+9 roadly, the rise of civil society has induced and legitimized transformational approaches to conflicts.58 At the same time, transnational developments have spurred ‘new wars’,59 where formerly localized conflicts acquire global proportions. These trends also mean that, while conventional military means are still heavily relied upon (e.g., Afghanistan, Iraq) these are seen to be ill-equipped to deal with conflicts marked by rebellions, terrorism and crime. The changing nature of security challenges and responses of major actors will shape the evolution of global security affairs. In order to understand such impacts this project will select a set of empirical case studies (e.g., the Iranian nuclear question, Afghanistan, Iraq, Middle East and Sudan).

Instability causes failed states and conflict – leads to terrorism
Liana Sun Wyler, Analyst in International Crime and Narcotics Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 8-28-08, “Weak and Failing States: Evolving Security Threats and U.S. Policy,” Congressional Research Service, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34253.pdf
Analysts identify numerous links between weak and failing states and transnational security threats, ranging from terrorism and nuclear proliferation to the spread of infectious diseases, environmental degradation, and energy security. U.S. national security documents generally address weak states in relation to four key threat areas: (1) terrorism, (2) international crime, (3) nuclear proliferation, and (4) regional instability. Other analysts caution, however, that despite anecdotal evidence supporting a potential nexus between state weakness and today’s security threats, weak states may not necessarily harbor U.S. national security threats. Furthermore, the weakest states may not necessarily be the most significant threats to U.S. national security; relatively functional states, characterized by some elements of weakness rather than complete state collapse, may also be sites from which threats can emerge. Terrorism. According to several analyses, weak and failing states are perceived as “primary bases of operations” for most U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organizations, including Al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, and Jaish-IMohammed.11 Terrorists can benefit from lax or non-existent law enforcement in these states to participate in illicit economic activities to finance their operations and ease their access to weapons and other equipment.12 As with Afghanistan in 2001, weak and failing states can also be ideal settings for terrorist training grounds, when the host country’s government is unable to control or govern parts of its territory. States mired in conflict also provide terrorists with opportunities to gain on-theground paramilitary experience.13 Researchers find, however, that not all weak states serve as safe havens for international terrorists.14 Terrorists have been known to exploit safe havens in nonweak as well as weak states. The Political Instability Task Force, a research group commissioned by the Central Intelligence Agency, found in a 2003 report that terrorists operate in both “caves” (i.e., failed states, where militant groups can exist with impunity) and “condos” (i.e., states that have the infrastructure to support the international flow of illicit people, funds, and information). The preference for “condos” suggests that countries most devoid of functioning government institutions may sometimes be less conducive to a terrorist presence than countries that are still weak, but retain some governmental effectiveness.15 International Crime. As with terrorist groups, international criminal organizations benefit from safe havens that weak and failing states provide. According to the U.S. Interagenccy Working Group report on international crime, weak states can be useful sites through which criminals can move illicit contraband and launder their proceeds, due to unenforced laws and high levels of official corruption.16 Since the Cold War, the international community has seen a surge in the number of transnational crime groups emerging in safe havens of weak, conflictprone states — especially in the Balkans, Central Asia, and West Africa. Criminal groups can thrive off the illicit needs of failing states, especially those subject to international sactions; regimes and rebel groups have been known to solicit the services of vast illicit arms trafficking networks to fuel deadly conflicts in countries such as Afghanistan, Angola, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Sudan when arms embargoes had been imposed by the United Nations and other members of the international community.17 Links between transnational crime and terrorists groups are also apparent: Al Qaeda and Hezbollah have worked with several criminal actors, ranging from rebel groups in the West African diamond trade to crime groups in the TriBorder region of Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay, among others.18 In 2008, a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) official stated that at least 19 of 43 Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) listed by the State Department have established links to drug trafficking.19 Some researchers contend, however, that the weakest states are not necessarily the most attractive states for international criminals. This may be because some illicit transnational groups might be too dependent on access to global financial services, modern telecommunication systems, transportation, and infrastructure that do not exist in weak states. Researchers also find that some forms of international crime are more associated with weak states than others. Narcotics trafficking and illicit arms smuggling, for example, often flow through weak states. However, other types, such as counterfeiting and financial fraud, may be more prevalent in wealthier states.20 Weapons Proliferation. Weak and failing states, unable or unwilling to guarantee the security of nuclear, chemical, biological, and radiological (CBRN) materials and related equipment, may facilitate underground networks that smuggle them. Endemic corruption and weak border controls raise the possibility of these states being used as transshipment points for illicit CBRN trafficking. Porous international borders and weak international controls have contributed to 1,080 confirmed nuclear and radiological material trafficking cases by member states from 1993 to 2006, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.21 The majority of smuggled nuclear material reportedly originates in Central Asia and the Caucasus where known stockpiles are said to be inadequately monitored.22 Other sources of concern include poorly secured materials in research, industrial, and medical facilities. A relatively new region of concern for the United States is Africa, where more than 18% of the world’s known recoverable uranium resources exist. Lax regulations, weak governments, and remotely located mines that are difficult to supervise combine to make the removal and trafficking of radioactive substances in Africa “a very real prospect.”23 Analysts also contend that while the potential for weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) trafficking through weak states is considerable, most weak states may be unlikely destinations for smuggled WMD devices. Such equipment requires a certain level of technological sophistication that may not exist in some weak and failing states.24 Regional Instability. According to recent research, states do not always become weak or failed in isolation — and the spread of instability across a region can serve as a critical multiplier of state vulnerability to threats. Instability has a tendency to spread beyond a weak state’s political borders, through overwhelming refugee flows, increased arms smuggling, breakdowns in regional trade, and many other ways.25 The National Intelligence Council acknowledges that state failure and its associated regional implications pose an “enormous cost in resources and time” to the United States.26

Terrorist attacks can escalate to nuclear war with China or Russia
Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 7-10, [“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, http://www.the3nr.com/2010/07/14/excellent-new-terrorism-impact-card/] E. Liu
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that some sort of terrorist attack, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.

US-Russia war is the biggest existential threat
Nick Bostrom has a PhD in Philosophy at Oxford 2002 [Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.

Contention 3 is Solvency


Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

===1AC St. Marks - Round 4=== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national infrastructure bank.


Contention 1 is the Economy
Transportation infrastructure decline is inevitable in the status quo – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert Puentes et al, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585 [RR]
Most experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations. But for too long, the nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy. The benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars. And it means so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate. We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. Infrastructure is fundamental to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States. Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank could easily leverage $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $1 trillion over a decade. Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences. Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. Too often, however, pressed by day-to-day concerns, state and local governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral of investment until a time when surpluses return. Unfortunately, this pattern has been repeated for decades, and the accumulation of deferred maintenance and deferred investment in future infrastructure has led to an unsatisfactory status quo. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial. The private sector can be a strong partner to government. By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity.

Strong supply chains are key to boost US exports, efficiency, and boost GDP – it also boosts business confidence
Nicole Y. Lamb-Hale, Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce, 04-29-2010, “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf
As sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, firms are transforming the way they look at and manage supply chains. No longer are individual companies competing with each other, entire supply chains are. Effective supply chains and just-in-time delivery systems drive modern global business. Supply chain infrastructure is the glue that binds successful trade routes. It affects the cost of every single product in the United States. Inefficient connections and capacity limitations lead to delays that raise the price of a company’s product, and make it harder to compete globally. Supply chain infrastructure is an important factor in a company’s decision on where to invest, build, and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure determines the attractiveness of a particular location. As world commerce becomes more integrated, and as sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, America’s firms and supply chains are being transformed. It has long been the case that it is no longer the individual companies that compete with each other. Rather, entire supply chains – fully integrated processes that connect manufacturer to transporter to distribution center to point of sale – are now the primary competitors in domestic and global commerce. Efficiencies in supply chains lead to competitive advantages, and they make possible global sourcing, just in time delivery systems, and modern global business itself. The velocity and efficiency of each supply chain depends on the infrastructure through which these goods and products flow. The increasingly time-sensitive and integrated nature of modern supply chains make smooth, just-in-time goods movement a critical element in that supply chain’s ability to compete in the global economy. Industry today sees infrastructure as an interconnected network of physical transport facilities, combined with modern information technology systems. The efficiency of this infrastructure -- and the industries that depend on it—is affected by environmental and sustainability considerations, new financing options, education, and regulatory and trade security measures. This speaks to the growing sophistication and complexity of modern supply chains, and their critical reliance on the quality of America’s supply chain infrastructure to support modern, high-tech manufacturing. Industry members have told us that supply chain infrastructure makes a difference because it affects the cost of every single product made or used in the United States. Missing connections and capacity limitations between port and manufacturer lead to delays that raise the price of every American export product and make it harder to compete with international producers. To illustrate this point, a recent Wall Street Journal article reported that a key harbor grain terminal in the Port of Los Angeles lacks enough space to handle the volume of exports arriving from inland producers due to the limited rail service to that terminal. Leading executives have also told us that a nation’s supply chain infrastructure also makes a difference when deciding where their firms will invest, build facilities and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure at the point of decision – the efficiency of the ports, the level of inter-modal connections, the quality of the IT systems, and more – determines in part the attractiveness of a location.

Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 2011, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf [RR]
President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation. Indeed, there’s a long history that when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises. The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. Government investments in basic science brought us the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, innovative businesses has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., and FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the basic regulations, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest. Government spending is also an important part of the economy. Millions of people work for the government and millions more are employed in government-funded work and all those dollars flowing into the economy create even more jobs. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation. In short, the economy continues to suffer from a lack of demand. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest. The federal government can help with this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—investments in roads and bridges, investment in changes that the country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and economists have found that the multipliers are largest when overall demand is weak, like current economic conditions in the United States.5 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other steps taken to address the Great Recession targeted funds toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased investments in infrastructure saved or created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by March 2011. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 Economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, Congress and the administration actually reduced the deficit, relative to where it would be today had no such action been taken. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 Clearly, there is solid evidence that government spending can create jobs in a recession as deep and protracted as the Great Recession. In fact, given current conditions, investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy. This is something that economic forecasters from across the political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending.22 Supply-side economics is not the answer The supply-side mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand. There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. Fair, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 2012, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
Ramey (2011) reviews the literature on estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair (2010) also compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes. After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO (2010) uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output. Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and Barro and Redlick (2011) are concerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concerned with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending (on goods and services) multipliers. Their general result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. The models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually. The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive. For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. A government spending shock (or decrease in taxes) stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect. All this happens even though agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by DeLong and Summers (2012), which argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing—no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable by 2013
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 07-23-2012, “"US Economy Going from Bad to Worse”, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577
A robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the cards, and we should now expect below trend growth for many years to come, according to Nouriel Roubini, the economist famed for his bearish views. Roubini, best-known for calling the 2008 economic crisis, outlined five reasons the bulls have been wrong and argued that an American economic cold will lead the rest of the world to catch pneumonia in a post on the Project Syndicate website. “Even this year, the consensus got it wrong, expecting a recovery to annual GDP growth of better than 3 percent,” the founder of Roubini Global Economics wrote. “And now, after getting the first half of 2012 wrong, many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices, rising auto sales, recovering house prices, and a resurgence of U.S. manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above-potential growth by 2013.” Roubini believes the U.S. economy will slow further this year and next as expectations of the “fiscal cliff” keep spending and growth lower — and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election dogs markets. The fiscal cliff could knock 4.5 percent off 2013 growth if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and spending cuts where triggered, according to Roubini. “Of course, the drag will be much smaller, as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder. But, even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bump — a mere 0.5 percent of GDP — and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 percent, as seems likely, the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed: a growth rate of barely 1 percent,” he wrote. The U.S. consumer, which drives plenty of the global economy as well as the U.S., will not be able to keep spending when $1.4 billion worth of tax cuts and extended transfer payments come to an end according to Roubini. “In 2013, as transfer payments are phased out, however gradually, and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire, disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow. The U.S. will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag, but also its indirect effect on private spending,” he wrote. The problems in the euro zone, a slowdown in China and emerging markets, added to the chance that oil prices could be driven higher by tensions over Iran’s nuclear program, will also add to America’s economic woes, Roubini argued. He warned the Fed will not be able to ride to the rescue this time. “The U.S. Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year, but it will be ineffective: long-term interest rates are already very low, and lowering them further would not boost spending,” he wrote. “Indeed, the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed, with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves. Moreover, the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing.” Roubini also argued that earnings growth is now beginning to run out of steam, after buoying markets earlier in the economic cycle. The second-quarter earnings season has so far presented a mixed picture. “A significant equity-price correction could, in fact, be the force that in 2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction. And if the U.S. starts to sneeze again, the rest of the world — its immunity already weakened by Europe’s malaise and emerging countries’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia,” he warned.r the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”


Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

Contention 2 is Integration

US success is key – developing countries will look at the NIB to overcome constraints to investment
Justin Yifu Lin, the former World Bank Chief Economist and Senior Vice President, Development Economics, et al., 1-12, [“ Beyond Keynesianism Global Infrastructure Investments in Times of Crisis,” https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/3225/WPS5940.txt?sequence=2]/ E. Liu
The successful implementation of a global infrastructure investment initiative in
developing countries hinges upon two key factors: First, countries will have to make the best of
existing resources by implementing the right bottleneck-releasing projects cost-effectively. Second, developing countries will need to raise the funds necessary to close the infrastructure financing gap. As the scope for increasing government spending may be limited in many developing countries and official development assistance (ODA) flows are unlikely to increase in the near future, developing countries will need to look for new innovative financing mechanisms. They could follow the example of recent infrastructure financing initiatives in advanced economics, such as the National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank in the United States and the Europe 2020 Project Bond Initiative, which use existing resources to attract additional private sector financing. Moreover, governments will need to reduce the risk borne by private investors. The international community could play an important role in assisting countries in overcoming these constraints through targeted financial resources and technical assistance.

Capital exists now but the plan is key to global coordinated investments – provides a sustainable model for developing countries that creates P3 synchronization
Daniel Bond, Senior Finance Advisor for the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance, Daniel Platz is Economic Aff airs Offi cer in the Financing for Development Offi ce of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Aff airs. Magnus Magnusson is the Programme Manager of the Local Finance Initiative of the United Nations Capital Development Fund, May 2012, “Financing small-scale infrastructure investments in developing countries”, http://www.un.org/esa/desa/papers/2012/wp114_2012.pdf [RR]
Usually it involves promoting productive sectors and value chains in which the area has or could have comparative advantages. In pursuing LED, local governments often find that inadequate small-scale infrastructure is the major impediment they face. Yet, with lower fiscal transfers from the central government, little direct support from donors (who prefer to deal directly with central governments) and little own source revenues they frequently cannot provide the necessary funds on their own. With the rather scarce financial resources at their disposal, they face difficulties in meeting operating expenditure requirements and have little revenue to invest in infrastructure. While local governments in high-income countries can rarely fund all their infrastructure needs out of current revenues, they usually can borrow from banks or issue bonds. Unfortunately, this is rarely an option for local governments in most developing countries due to their limited creditworthiness or the lack of credit ratings at the local or international level (Platz, 2009). Likewise, the private sector is rarely prepared to provide either equity or debt financing for small scale infrastructure projects on its own. Local entrepreneurs and poor communities demonstrate skill, knowledge, and willingness to shoulder risks, but are often not recognized by formal institutions and lack access to the longer-term finance necessary for infrastructure development and scale-up. For example, based on its field experience, DFID identifies certain barriers, including high market and project development costs, difficulty to access pre-investment financing, high commercial risks given the low effective demand and limited knowledge about best practice and scaling up, as the reasons for low private sector financing in small-scale decentralized energy services (DFID, 2007). Resolution of this dilemma will require external assistance. Local governments need external assistance in finding ways to overcome the limitations of weak financial systems, in putting together “bankable” projects and in mitigating the perceived technical and financial risks involved in small infrastructure investment. In developing countries, funding for capital expenditures on infrastructure can come from a number of sources. The primary ones are: • Public sector budget • Official development assistance (ODA) • Private sector The public sector provides the largest share of funding for infrastructure. This comes either from current revenues or public borrowing. In low-income countries, a significant share of funding comes from ODA, mostly in the form of grants. The private sector’s share of infrastructure funding in low-income countries is also important, although it tends to be concentrated in specific sectors such as ICT. It is provided in the form of equity or debt invested primarily in large infrastructure projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), where the private sector participates directly with the public sector in projects, is another form of financing. According to data compiled by the Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic (AICD), capital expenditures for large-scale core infrastructure projects in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2001-2006 averaged $24.9 billion annually. Of this 38% came from the public sector, 24% from ODA (both OECD and non-OECD countries) and 38% from the private sector. If small-scale infrastructure spending were included, the public sector’s share would likely be significantly higher (World Bank, 2009, Table 0.4, page 9). Given the nature of infrastructure—high initial sunk cost and long service life—most public and private sector expenditures come not from current revenues but from longer-term forms of financing and the bulk of this financing comes from domestic sources (Irving & Manroth, 2009).6 In developing countries the the banks to refinancing risks that must be passed on to the infrastructure project through increased risk premiums on the loans (Rostogi and Rao, 2011). An important potential source of long term financing for infrastructure are pre-funded pension plans that have experienced rapid growth in many developing countries in recent years. Pension funds in developing countries have risen from an estimated US$422 billion in 2001 to US$1.4 trillion at the end of June 2010 (JP Morgan, 2010) (figure 1). Following the advice of international financial institutions, particularly the World Bank, many developing countries have established such pension systems. Given the rather young population of most of these countries and the recent introduction of such pension plans, the assets held by such pension funds are accumulating very rapidly in many countries. Since payments from these funds occur over a long term and are highly predictable, these pension funds should be investing in long-term assets. Thus, they are an appropriate source for funding for infrastructure, which can provide stable long-term returns. However, in many countries pension funds do not have the skills needed for investing in infrastructure projects. And in most countries, the government regulates pension fund investments and often limits their ability to invest in infrastructure projects directly. To the extent that they are engaged in funding infrastructure it is most commonly through the purchase of government bonds which are then used by the government to fund projects. In addition to pension funds, there are other institutional investors, such as insurance companies, mutual funds and other collective investment schemes that may invest in infrastructure projects. Usually some portion of their assets needs to be invested long-term in order to match their liabilities. Assets from whole life insurance policies are a particularly appropriate source of funds for long-term investments. Whether these entities do invest in infrastructure is determined by the regulatory guidelines under which they operate, their ability to analyze infrastructure projects and the availability of creditworthy infrastructure projects offering good returns. In many developing countries the growth of pension funds and other institutional investor assets has been so rapid that they have outstripped the capacity of the local markets to provide the types of investments such institutions need. Lacking suitable long-term investment options, these assets end up being deposited in banks, earning relatively low rates of return and even distorting the local financial markets by creating excess liquidity. If these assets could instead be used to safely finance small scale infrastructure projects this would not only help develop the economy but it would strengthen the local capital markets as well. The question is whether the domestic savings held by institutional investors in developing countries can be mobilized to provide long-term funding for small infrastructure projects. To facilitate financing for small-scale infrastructure projects in a developing country setting we propose using donor resources to leverage domestic savings. A pooled financing approach designed especially for financing small rural infrastructure on a multi-sector basis was developed in 2009 by the UNCDF “Local Finance Initiative (LFI)” in partnership with the Global Clearinghouse for Development Finance.8 This approach includes technical assistance, risk mitigation tools and incentives that can mobilize private sector finance, banks as well as institutional investors, including pension funds, over the longer term. All the elements of this proposal have been tested in infrastructure financing programs already carried out in a number of countries. Some of these programs are described in the appendix to this paper. The above structure illustrates how the projects are financed through a pooled facility by the domestic debt markets. This basic structure would be modified as needed to fi t the country requirements, targeted investors, and projects sponsors from the public and private sectors. Development finance institutions would provide the technical assistance and funding necessary to develop “bankable” project proposals. The projects would need to be able to generate sufficient revenue to cover the projected debt service payments. The revenue can be generated by market sales, off -take agreements, user fees, output-based aid payments by donors, etc. Local governments would not borrow themselves. However, they could . They can also facilitate and support the projects or even invest in them (in cash or in kind, for example by providing land or access/usage rights). In many instances, private companies would also play an important role. They can contribute their knowledge and skill in arranging for financing, in carrying out construction projects and in operating infrastructure facilities. Moreover, they can provide equity investment for projects or they may provide off -take contracts to help secure future project revenues. A number of projects would be financed through a pooled financing facility, or similar credit enhancement financial mechanism. The investors in the facility would have support from one or more development finance institutions that would provide credit enhancement (such as partial credit guarantees or a first-loss facility). The facility would be structured using a non-recourse project finance approach, whereby loans made by the facility would be repaid solely from the cash flows generated by the projects–not from the general financial resources of the project sponsors or local governments. This would shield local government revenue from external creditor claims. Individual projects would be structured so that certain risks, such as construction cost, technical performance, and environmental compliance, are mitigated through contractual undertakings by third-parties. The pooled financing facility would be managed by a strong local bank (the Fund Manager), that would take the principal responsibility for credit analysis of prospective projects. The Fund Manager would seek to obtain participation in the facility from several other local banks and institutional investors. This would spread the credit and reputational risks of participation and enable the participants to improve their skills in credit analysis of project finance. After the initial portfolio of projects has been operating successfully for a few years, it may be possible to restructure the loans into securities that could be refinanced on the local capital market. Pension funds and other institutional investors could invest into senior tranches (those tranches that have the highest repayment priority) thus freeing the banks funds to be redeployed in additional projects. The projects being refinanced would have established good payment performance records and thus be viewed as lower risk, which would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. would make them more attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds. This model stands in contrast to the more traditional on-lending model of assistance: In order for on-lending to work, there is a need for a lender who has the ability and willingness to make the necessary loans.9 The proposed mechanism assumes that there are few local banks that are prepared to help local governments identify projects, find private sector project sponsors and prepare “bankable” projects. It is too costly for the banks to do this and often the necessary skills are in short supply. Thus, we propose that donors take the lead in the area of project preparation. We are also assuming the local banks have no experience in financing small rural infrastructure projects and will require incentives to provide the funding on acceptable terms unless the donor community is willing to assist them in overcoming this barrier. Hence, we propose that this can be done by risk sharing between banks and donors and/or DFIs.


Specifically infrastructure is key to the African economy
Cesar Calderon, Senior Economist with the Financial and Private Sector Development of the World Bank, September 2008, “Infrastructure and Economic Development in Sub-Saharan Africa”, https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/6988/WPS4712.pdf?sequence=1 [RR]
Poor infrastructure is commonly viewed as one of the key obstacles to economic development in Sub-Saharan Africa. In this paper we have provided an empirical evaluation of the potential contribution of improved infrastructure to growth and equity in the region. Our assessment is based on the estimation of infrastructure-augmented grow and income inequality regressions using a large data set comprising 100 countries over the period 1960-2005. The empirical approach encompasses different core infrastructure sectors, considers both the quantity and quality of infrastructure services, and employs instrumental variable techniques to account for the potential en and non-infrastructure determinants of growth and inequality. We find robust evidence that infrastructure development – as measured by an increased volume of infrastructure stocks and an improved quality of infrastructure services – has a positive impact on long-run growth and a negative impact on income inequality. The evidence also suggests that these impacts are not different in Sub-Saharan Africa vis-à-vis other regions. A variety of specification tests and robustness checks lend support to our empirical experiments. Since most African countries are lagging in terms of infrastructure quantity, qualify, and universality of access, the tentative conclusion is that infrastructure development offers a double potential to speed up poverty reduction in Sub-Saharan Africa: it is associated with both higher growth and lower inequality. Illustrative exercises show that our results are significant not only statistically, but also economically. Simple decompositions of observed growth and inequality changes suggest that over the last fifteen years infrastructure development made a contribution to growth and equity in virtually all world regions. Outside Africa, such contribution was particularly large in East and South Asia, and smallest in Western Europe, where infrastructure was already highly developed by the early 1990s. Infrastructure also helped in Sub-Saharan Africa, but to a much more modest extent than in Asia, and the primary reason seems to be the region's lack of progress on the quality of infrastructure services over the sample period. Finally, counterfactual simulations also illustrate the substantial gains in terms of growth and equity that most Sub-Saharan African countries could reap if their levels of infrastructure development were to catch up, or even just keep up, with those of comparator country groups.

That checks African instability
Ernst Stetter, Secretary General of Federation for European Progressive Studies, 2009, “Why Africa matters! – The economic crisis and Africa”, http://policydialogue.org/files/events/Stetter_Why_Africa_Matters.pdf [RR]
There is a need for Africa to develop a strategy which allows it to convert the gains into durable economic stability and sustainable growth, something the continent failed to achieve in earlier decades. The progress on the Millennium Development Goals is irregular, but generally there is an existing progress. One has to observe now during 2009 what the effects due to the world economic crisis will be. On the political side, the African Union (AU) is a credible attempt at unity and integration, albeit without the pooling of sovereignty, a characteristic of the EU model for example. Some of the regional economic communities have become functional (ECOWAS), although others remain still "paper elephants" (EAU). Many resource rich African countries are in a position of power, but this strength is at the mercy of the ups and downs of commodity prices. Such situations have existed in the past and not led to durable development in Africa. A key issue for those countries would be to emulate the diversification strategies and growth trajectory of other resource rich countries such as Malaysia or Norway, Australia and New-Zealand. This requires not only a real strategy for a countries’ response to globalisation, but also strong economic and political governance. The resource poor countries in Africa have very little to attract international political and economical attention if it is not their misery or conflict itself. Furthermore: There is clear evidence that Africa is increasingly becoming the victim of the global governance system. What needs to change is the political and economic governance in Africa. But this is first and foremost an internal African problem. The entire international system of cooperation has tried for more than 30 years to assist, support and contribute to more democracy, better economic growth and good governance. Africa’s inability to assume its fair place in the international system is first an internal problem of Africa “elites”. It is still the case that political and economic leaders do not seem willing or capable to develop the potentials of the globalizing world for the continent. On the global level, a functional multilateralism could provide opportunities for Africa as an emerging international actor to take a role in some of the challenges directly affecting it (which are for the time being dealt within institutions where African influence is marginal), while leaving the door open for a more comprehensive international transformation that may flow from the progressive African integration, economic growth and UN reform. Functional multilateralism does not require substantial yielding of sovereignty Secondly there is also the structure of global governance that has held Africa hostage for many years and made it impossible for Africa to assume its rightful place in the international system. There is no doubt that China’s renewed interest upon the continent and the nature of Chinese investment in Africa has raised some concerns in Europe and in the United States. Those concerns are manifestly a strong response to the question why Africa matters. Does Africa matter? Can we really assume that Africa matters because of its strategic importance especially within the context of global politics of resources? If there is no doubt that Africa is endowed with abundant natural resources, it is also true that Africa is still struggling to address the multiple challenges facing the continent, this includes poverty, under-development, protracted conflicts, environmental degradation, HIV/AIDS pandemic, tuberculosis and malaria. It has been suggested that all over Africa, poverty is a common denominator and it is not surprising that people’s immune systems have been damaged. Reports on Africa’s HIV/AIDS pandemic have all come to the conclusion that HIV/AIDS on the continent is closely associated to poverty. It is clear that the absence of technological investment and the contemning human resource capacity has prevented Africa from making optimal use of its abundant resources for the benefit of its people.

Regional conflicts go global and nuclear
Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al. 11 Michael Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al., Nathalie Tocci, Richard Youngs Jean-Pierre Cassarino, Christian Egenhofer, Giovanni Grevi , 7-11, [“Global Matrix ,” CEPS Working Documents, www.ceps.eu/ceps/download/5936] E. Liu
Drivers. The end of the Cold war has seen a questioning of the role of the state in relation to international security and society. Whereas democratic developments legitimized opposition movements to mobilize and oust authoritarian regimes, the related notion of selfdetermination unleashed ethno-nationalism and secessionism. Hence the picture has become one of fewer inter-state conflicts but more intra-state ethno-political conflicts. At the transnational level, globalization is mounting further challenges to the state, under the influences of deepening trade and investment driven by multinational corporations, movements of people, and transnational civil society, as well as criminal gangs, terrorist networks and militias. In an increasingly interconnected world, conflicts that once might have remained local disputes can have global impact. Unstable and ungoverned regions of the world pose dangers for neighbors and a setting for broader problems of terrorism, poverty and despair. The technology and knowledge to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction is proliferating among some of the most ruthless factions and regimes on earth. The Cold War threat of global nuclear war has diminished, but the risk of a nuclear disaster has gone up. Scientific advances have enhanced biology’s potential for both beneficence and malevolence by state and non-state actors alike. Impact on the world order. These trends have led to diverse repercussions. The international community has become more sensitive to human conditions worldwide. This has added to the weight in favor of humanitarian interventions,56 multilateral institutions protecting human security, and universal jurisdiction (e.g. the ICC or International Criminal Tribunals).57 More b+9 roadly, the rise of civil society has induced and legitimized transformational approaches to conflicts.58 At the same time, transnational developments have spurred ‘new wars’,59 where formerly localized conflicts acquire global proportions. These trends also mean that, while conventional military means are still heavily relied upon (e.g., Afghanistan, Iraq) these are seen to be ill-equipped to deal with conflicts marked by rebellions, terrorism and crime. The changing nature of security challenges and responses of major actors will shape the evolution of global security affairs. In order to understand such impacts this project will select a set of empirical case studies (e.g., the Iranian nuclear question, Afghanistan, Iraq, Middle East and Sudan).

Contention 3 is Solvency


Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.


===1AC Greenhill=== 

Plan Text

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national investment bank.
Contention 1 is Growth
Transportation infrastructure decline is inevitable in the status quo – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert Puentes et al, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585 [RR]
Most experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations. But for too long, the nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy. The benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars. And it means so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate. We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. Infrastructure is fundamental to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States. Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank could easily leverage $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $1 trillion over a decade. Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences. Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. Too often, however, pressed by day-to-day concerns, state and local governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral of investment until a time when surpluses return. Unfortunately, this pattern has been repeated for decades, and the accumulation of deferred maintenance and deferred investment in future infrastructure has led to an unsatisfactory status quo. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial. The private sector can be a strong partner to government. By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity.

Strong supply chains are key to boost US exports, efficiency, and boost GDP – it also boosts business confidence
Nicole Y. Lamb-Hale, Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce, 04-29-2010, “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf
As sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, firms are transforming the way they look at and manage supply chains. No longer are individual companies competing with each other, entire supply chains are. Effective supply chains and just-in-time delivery systems drive modern global business. Supply chain infrastructure is the glue that binds successful trade routes. It affects the cost of every single product in the United States. Inefficient connections and capacity limitations lead to delays that raise the price of a company’s product, and make it harder to compete globally. Supply chain infrastructure is an important factor in a company’s decision on where to invest, build, and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure determines the attractiveness of a particular location. As world commerce becomes more integrated, and as sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, America’s firms and supply chains are being transformed. It has long been the case that it is no longer the individual companies that compete with each other. Rather, entire supply chains – fully integrated processes that connect manufacturer to transporter to distribution center to point of sale – are now the primary competitors in domestic and global commerce. Efficiencies in supply chains lead to competitive advantages, and they make possible global sourcing, just in time delivery systems, and modern global business itself. The velocity and efficiency of each supply chain depends on the infrastructure through which these goods and products flow. The increasingly time-sensitive and integrated nature of modern supply chains make smooth, just-in-time goods movement a critical element in that supply chain’s ability to compete in the global economy. Industry today sees infrastructure as an interconnected network of physical transport facilities, combined with modern information technology systems. The efficiency of this infrastructure -- and the industries that depend on it—is affected by environmental and sustainability considerations, new financing options, education, and regulatory and trade security measures. This speaks to the growing sophistication and complexity of modern supply chains, and their critical reliance on the quality of America’s supply chain infrastructure to support modern, high-tech manufacturing. Industry members have told us that supply chain infrastructure makes a difference because it affects the cost of every single product made or used in the United States. Missing connections and capacity limitations between port and manufacturer lead to delays that raise the price of every American export product and make it harder to compete with international producers. To illustrate this point, a recent Wall Street Journal article reported that a key harbor grain terminal in the Port of Los Angeles lacks enough space to handle the volume of exports arriving from inland producers due to the limited rail service to that terminal. Leading executives have also told us that a nation’s supply chain infrastructure also makes a difference when deciding where their firms will invest, build facilities and employ people. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure at the point of decision – the efficiency of the ports, the level of inter-modal connections, the quality of the IT systems, and more – determines in part the attractiveness of a location.
Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 2011, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf [RR]
President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation. Indeed, there’s a long history that when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises. The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. Government investments in basic science brought us the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, innovative businesses has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., and FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the basic regulations, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest. Government spending is also an important part of the economy. Millions of people work for the government and millions more are employed in government-funded work and all those dollars flowing into the economy create even more jobs. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation. In short, the economy continues to suffer from a lack of demand. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest. The federal government can help with this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—investments in roads and bridges, investment in changes that the country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and economists have found that the multipliers are largest when overall demand is weak, like current economic conditions in the United States.5 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other steps taken to address the Great Recession targeted funds toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased investments in infrastructure saved or created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by March 2011. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 Economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, Congress and the administration actually reduced the deficit, relative to where it would be today had no such action been taken. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 Clearly, there is solid evidence that government spending can create jobs in a recession as deep and protracted as the Great Recession. In fact, given current conditions, investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy. This is something that economic forecasters from across the political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending.22 Supply-side economics is not the answer The supply-side mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand. There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. Fair, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 2012, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
Ramey (2011) reviews the literature on estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair (2010) also compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes. After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO (2010) uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output. Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and Barro and Redlick (2011) are concerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concerned with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending (on goods and services) multipliers. Their general result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. The models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually. The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive. For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. A government spending shock (or decrease in taxes) stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect. All this happens even though agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by DeLong and Summers (2012), which argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing—no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable by 2013
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 07-23-2012, “"US Economy Going from Bad to Worse”, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577
A robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the cards, and we should now expect below trend growth for many years to come, according to Nouriel Roubini, the economist famed for his bearish views. Roubini, best-known for calling the 2008 economic crisis, outlined five reasons the bulls have been wrong and argued that an American economic cold will lead the rest of the world to catch pneumonia in a post on the Project Syndicate website. “Even this year, the consensus got it wrong, expecting a recovery to annual GDP growth of better than 3 percent,” the founder of Roubini Global Economics wrote. “And now, after getting the first half of 2012 wrong, many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices, rising auto sales, recovering house prices, and a resurgence of U.S. manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above-potential growth by 2013.” Roubini believes the U.S. economy will slow further this year and next as expectations of the “fiscal cliff” keep spending and growth lower — and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election dogs markets. The fiscal cliff could knock 4.5 percent off 2013 growth if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and spending cuts where triggered, according to Roubini. “Of course, the drag will be much smaller, as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder. But, even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bump — a mere 0.5 percent of GDP — and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 percent, as seems likely, the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed: a growth rate of barely 1 percent,” he wrote. The U.S. consumer, which drives plenty of the global economy as well as the U.S., will not be able to keep spending when $1.4 billion worth of tax cuts and extended transfer payments come to an end according to Roubini. “In 2013, as transfer payments are phased out, however gradually, and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire, disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow. The U.S. will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag, but also its indirect effect on private spending,” he wrote. The problems in the euro zone, a slowdown in China and emerging markets, added to the chance that oil prices could be driven higher by tensions over Iran’s nuclear program, will also add to America’s economic woes, Roubini argued. He warned the Fed will not be able to ride to the rescue this time. “The U.S. Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year, but it will be ineffective: long-term interest rates are already very low, and lowering them further would not boost spending,” he wrote. “Indeed, the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed, with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves. Moreover, the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing.” Roubini also argued that earnings growth is now beginning to run out of steam, after buoying markets earlier in the economic cycle. The second-quarter earnings season has so far presented a mixed picture. “A significant equity-price correction could, in fact, be the force that in 2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction. And if the U.S. starts to sneeze again, the rest of the world — its immunity already weakened by Europe’s malaise and emerging countries’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia,” he warned.

It independently kills resiliency
Catherine Rampell, economics reporter for The New York Times; wrote for the Washington Post editorial pages and financial section, 08-07-2011, “Second Recession in U.S. Could Be Worse Than First”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/08/business/a-second-recession-could-be-much-worse-than-the-first.html?pagewanted=all
If the economy falls back into recession, as many economists are now warning, the bloodletting could be a lot more painful than the last time around. Given the tumult of the Great Recession, this may be hard to believe. But the economy is much weaker than it was at the outset of the last recession in December 2007, with most major measures of economic health — including jobs, incomes, output and industrial production — worse today than they were back then. And growth has been so weak that almost no ground has been recouped, even though a recovery technically started in June 2009. “It would be disastrous if we entered into a recession at this stage, given that we haven’t yet made up for the last recession,” said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist at RDQ Economics. When the last downturn hit, the credit bubble left Americans with lots of fat to cut, but a new one would force families to cut from the bone. Making things worse, policy makers used most of the economic tools at their disposal to combat the last recession, and have few options available. Anxiety and uncertainty have increased in the last few days after the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”

Stimulus is our only hope for averting a double dip in the short term – all austerity measures fail
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 08-12-2012, “"Dr. Doom" Takes A Look At The Economy”, http://www.npr.org/2012/08/12/158644951/taking-a-doomy-look-at-the-economy [RR]
WERTHEIMER: So are you taking a doomy view of the U.S. economy in the near term? ROUBINI: I am concerned. Economic growth has been very slow. And at the end of the year, there'll be this fiscal cliff and some element of fiscal drag. WERTHEIMER: The fiscal cliff is the decision that the Congress has to make, to either renew the President Bush's tax cuts or permit rather drastic cuts in spending and increases in taxes to take place. ROUBINI: Yes, if all of those things were to occur, the drag on the economy could be very, very large and growth could be close to zero by next year. And we could be stuck and sulk again about stalled speed or a double-dip recession. WERTHEIMER: Now, as you pointed out, you did predict the crash in 2008. But you predicted something that was even more dire than what has happened. You talked about stock markets closing for days or weeks, stock prices going through the floor. Is anything that you're looking at pointing toward anything that serious this time? ROUBINI: Maybe not but there is certainly risk that by next year a perfect global storm may occur. By next year, you might have a disorderly breakup of the eurozone. You might have the fiscal drag leads to another recession in the U.S. China, growth is slowing down - they might have a hard landing. Other emerging markets growth is stalling. And in the Middle East, there is a risk that there may be a military confrontation between Israel and U.S. on one side and Iran of the issue of nuclear proliferation. So there are these five risks. If they were to materialize, then we'll have another global recession and it could be worse than the one we had in 2008/2013. WERTHEIMER: But isn't it also true that Germany might decide to take responsibility for some of the smaller countries and cover their debt; that the Chinese, since they are in such serious control of their economy, that they could manage this landing; that energy prices have been falling in the United States because we are doing so much production on our own, that perhaps we wouldn't hit a horrible bump if Middle Eastern oil quantities went down? I mean there are ways in which it could go this way, or it could go that way. ROUBINI: You're absolutely right. I would argue that in Germany in the core of the eurozone, there is also bailout fatigue. They say, for example, the Greeks had a Big Fat Greek Wedding, not for long weekend but for the last 20 years. We give them a first bailout, a second bailout, many Germans want to pull the plug. In China, you have a new government at the end of the year. Either they move away from net exports, from too much savings, from too much capital investments towards more consumption, or otherwise by next year China could have also a hard landing. In the U.S., we have shale gas. I think it has been hyped a bit too much. It's going to help the energy needs of the U.S., but that revolution may take 10 to 20 years. If there is a war in the Middle East next year, the shock to all prices is going to tip the U.S. into a recession because we're not going to be energy independent for at least another decade. WERTHEIMER: Is there anything that the Federal Reserve can do to avert this crisis that concerns you? ROUBINI: Yes, the Federal Reserve can help and so far it has helped. The fact that the Great Recession of '08/'13 did not turn into another Great Depression is due to the fact that we learned the lessons of the Great Depression. And it means that in the short term we need more fiscal stimulus. The reality however is that we're running out of policy bullets. Politically, we're not going to be able to bailout the banks and the bankers for a second time. I think there will be a political backlash against it. So if things are to turn sour compared to '08, when we had all the policy bullets, this time around would be worse. WERTHEIMER: One of the big themes in this election year is a call for austerity. If that means that the government should drastically cut spending, would it help? Would it avert a crisis or would it bring one on? ROUBINI: Unfortunately the U.S. political system is in a gridlock. And the reality is that in the medium time we have to reduce our budget deficit, and the way to do it is going to be a combination of reforming Social Security and Medicare on one side, but also gradually increasing the tax burden because right now it's very low, especially on those who can pay. And while we have to do fiscal austerity, if we do too much of it, next year or in the next couple of years, the risk, like in the eurozone, is that we end up into another recession because austerity, however necessary, in the short run has a negative effect on economic growth.

Strong growth outweighs all their turns
Bret Swanson, President of Entropy Economics a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 05-27-11, “The Growth Imperative”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/
The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed. In most conversations of deficits, entitlements, debt ceilings, and bond markets, economic growth goes unmentioned. In recent days, a few smart policy makers finally whispered it, yet not with the needed volume and specificity. Perhaps the paltry 1.8% first quarter GDP figure, when our recovery should be generating 5% numbers, will get the nation’s attention. Growth today is our biggest problem – but also our biggest opportunity. We’ve all seen the budget charts with steeply sloping outlays and trillion dollar deficits stretching over the horizon, leading inevitably to skyrocketing debt. The responsible people, like those gathered at Pete Peterson’s Fiscal Summit this week, tell us the only solution is to “cut spending and raise taxes” – in dramatic amounts. And of course less spending and more revenue are essential. But the partisan divide between the spending cutters and tax raisers is unlikely to yield a helpful policy path – more likely a muddle of growth killing taxes and out-year NIMTO (not in my term of office) spending cuts. Economic growth, on the other hand, swamps every spending cut and tax rate increase. In 2010, U.S. GDP was $14.66 trillion. Today’s 2% growth rate, over the long-term, would yield output of $17.9 trillion in 2020, $21.8 trillion in 2030, $26.6 trillion in 2040, and $32.4 trillion in 2050. But what if America committed to a bold long range growth goal? I’m no budget expert, but for a presentation to the National Chamber Foundation on May 24, I offered a few simple charts that tell the story. A 4% growth rate would mean almost $4 trillion in additional output in the year 2020, $10 trillion more in 2030, $21 trillion more in 2040, and an astounding $38 trillion more in 2050, when the economy would be more than twice as large had we kept growing at 2%. Over this period, with an arbitrarily chosen 20% tax-to-GDP ratio, a 4% growth rate would generate $109 trillion more revenue than a 2% growth rate. But 4% is wildly optimistic, you say. Perhaps. The consensus long range projection is just 2.5%. Fine, what if we could bump growth to a measly 3%? We would still generate an additional $25 trillion in tax revenue over the 40-year period. Didn’t the Medicare actuary just tell us the program’s unfunded liability is $24.6 trillion? Boosting the share of the economy we collect in taxes doesn’t do any good if the economy lags. Collecting 20% or 25% of GDP in taxes, as some propose, doesn’t get us anywhere close to balance if we grow just 2% or 2.5%. On the other hand, 4% growth with the historical 18% tax-GDP ratio keeps up with even our current profligate spending path. The power of compound growth towers over every other consideration. Rapid economic growth should thus be our chief national objective. We should measure every policy – extant and proposed – against this goal. Do our tax, regulatory, trade, immigration, and social policies help maximize economic growth? Or do they risk depressing our potential growth rate even just a bit? Compound growth is so powerful, no policy that imperils it should be tolerated. This Growth Test should inform and shape every debate. Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest. How do we grow? Immigration, fertility, and longevity are of course factors. In my book, more people are desirable. But the kind of growth we really need is based on an entrepreneurially venturesome economy full of experimentation and discovery. We need more new technologies, more new goods and services, more investors, more new companies. These things generate incremental productivity advances in existing industries and markets, but more importantly they create totally new industries and unlikely life enhancements. The keys are flexibility, investment, technology, and entrepreneurship. The Kauffman Foundation’s Brink Lindsey surmises that the most developed nations, like the U.S., need ever more freedom and entrepreneurship to grow. Developing nations can simply adopt the world’s leading edge technologies and business practices. Their growth path is relatively clear. Not so for us. Because we define the economic and technological frontier, we must keep pushing forward into an uncertain future.

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-2012, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment
Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event, especially for older workers. A paper by the economists Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter estimates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate for males by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the United States. The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also associated with some serious illnesses, although the causal links are poorly understood. Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying of the disease. Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems. The physical and psychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 2011, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

Contention 2 is Solvency


Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

Deficits are inevitable but infrastructure financing now is feasible and provides short and long term growth
William L. Holahan, is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and Charles O. Kroncke, is associate dean in the University of South Florida College of Business, 06-13-2012, :On U.S. infrastructure, spend now, gain later”, http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/on-us-infrastructure-spend-now-gain-later/1234943
When the American Society of Civil Engineers issued a report card giving D and F grades for major infrastructure assets in the United States, the group estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion to rehabilitate them. Even though these public sector assets support the private sector of the economy, and despite the availability of cheap money, Congress has no current plans to remedy this situation. Its reluctance to support investment in infrastructure is unfortunate because this is an opportune time to earn a better report card; presently, we can borrow at very low interest rates to upgrade our streets, roads, bridges, railroads, school buildings, Internet bandwidth and K-12 education. We have earned the trust of foreign investors, who value the safety of our financial markets and seek to loan us money through their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds. In the short run, infrastructure investment would stimulate business growth and employ otherwise unemployed resources of labor and equipment. In the longer run, when these assets are in good working order, they would support faster growth of the economy, a prerequisite for bringing down the national debt and putting workers back on the path to higher after-tax incomes. What are we waiting for? Congressional inaction reflects the public concern over "runaway spending" and the rapid rise in the debt over the past 30 years, and especially the last five. Much of this concern rests on the falsely imagined equivalence of all government spending. But consumption spending and investment spending play very different roles in the economy, whether done by a firm, a family or the government. Our national debate should pivot from a narrow focus on debt alone to one that separates investment from consumption, that is, whether the borrowed money is spent in ways that repayment can be expected through increased future productivity. Carefully chosen infrastructure spending is an investment that pays for itself in greater economic growth; in fact, failure to make these investments can retard growth. Infrastructure investment spending is more likely to be accepted by struggling taxpayers than increased consumption spending on safety net programs such as food stamps or extended unemployment insurance, however dire the need for such programs may be. Seriously? More debt? How often have we heard that the size of our current national debt — some $15 trillion — prevents us from borrowing more money? Even with interest rates this low and opportunities so beneficial, the resistance to further borrowing is quite strong. The false and misleading claim is that we have already "mortgaged the future" and we "don't have the money." These slogans reflect a key concern: the ability to repay the debt. The usual measure of the ability to repay debt is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. Since infrastructure assets have very long lives, this measure should be calculated over a long time horizon. The public debt is projected to grow to $70 trillion over the next 75 years. If we experience 2 percent economic growth, national income over this period will total $2.46 quadrillion. The resulting ratio would be a mere 2.84 percent, demonstrating that as a nation, we are in a position to make cost-beneficial, growth-enhancing investments. Some additional arithmetic makes this point more forcefully. Suppose the infrastructure investments enable the economy to grow just one-tenth of one percent faster (2.1 percent versus 2.0 percent). Due to the power of compound interest, the added GDP over those 75 years is $116 trillion. Yes, the projected national debt is large, much larger than this year's GDP. But arithmetic also shows that failure to invest in growth will deny future generations the enormous gains available from even tiny improvements in economic growth rates.



===1AC Grapevine=== 

====**Plan Text**==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national investment bank.

====**Contention 1 is Growth**==== 

Infrastructure is key to the economy through exports, efficiency and GDP but it’s declining now – An NIB makes targeted investments that avoids earmarks, inefficient allocations and systemic state deferral of maintenance while capturing private capital
Robert Puentes et al, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]] [RR]

Most experts agree the United States must address the nation's aging network of roads, bridges, airports, railways, power grids, water systems, and other public works to maintain its global economic competitiveness. In 2010, President Barack Obama proposed a national infrastructure bank (PDF) that would leverage public and private capital to fund improvements, and in April 2011 a bipartisan coalition of senators put forward a similar concept (NYT). Four experts discuss how the United States can best move forward on infrastructure development. Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution suggests focusing on increasing exports, low-carbon technology, innovation, and opportunity. Renowned financier Felix Rohatyn endorses the concept of a federally owned but independently operated national infrastructure bank that would provide a "guidance-system" for federal dollars. Infrastructure policy authority Richard Little argues that adequate revenue streams are the "first step in addressing this problem," stressing "revenue-based models" as essential. Deputy Mayor of New York City Stephen Goldsmith says that the "most promising ideas" in this policy area involve public-private partnerships. Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters because state-of-the-art transportation, telecommunications, and energy networks--the connective tissue of the nation--are critical to moving goods, ideas, and workers quickly and efficiently and providing a safe, secure, and competitive climate for business operations. But for too long, the nation's infrastructure policies have been kept separate and apart from the larger conversation about the U.S. economy. The benefits of infrastructure are frequently framed around short-term goals about job creation. While the focus on employment growth is certainly understandable, it is not the best way to target and deploy infrastructure dollars. And it means so-called "shovel ready projects" are all we can do while long-term investments in the smart grid, high-speed rail, and modern ports are stuck at the starting gate. We often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. So in addition to the focus on job growth in the short term, we need to rebalance the American economy for the long term on several key elements: higher exports, to take advantage of rising global demand; low-carbon technology, to lead the clean-energy revolution; innovation, to spur growth through ideas and their deployment; and greater opportunity, to reverse the troubling, decades-long rise in inequality. Infrastructure is fundamental to each of those elements. Yet while we know America's infrastructure needs are substantial, we have not been able to pull together the resources to make the requisite investments. And when we do, we often fail to make infrastructure investments in an economy-enhancing way. This is why the proposal for a national infrastructure bank is so important. If designed and implemented appropriately, it would be a targeted mechanism to deal with critical new investments on a merit basis, while adhering to market forces and leveraging the private capital we know is ready to invest here in the United States. Building the next economy will require deliberate and purposeful action, across all levels of government, in collaboration with the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that. Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make massive investments in public infrastructure, our nation's roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, airports and railways, ports and dams, waterlines, and air-control systems are rapidly and dangerously deteriorating. China, India, and European nations are spending--or have spent--the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars on efficient public transportation, energy, and water systems. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated in 2005 that it would take $1.6 trillion simply to make U.S. infrastructure dependable and safe. The obvious, negative impact of this situation on our global competitiveness, quality of life, and ability to create American jobs is a problem we no longer can ignore. One way to finance the rebuilding of our country is by creating a national infrastructure bank that is owned by the federal government but not operated by it. The bank would be similar to the World Bank and European Investment Bank. Funded with a capital base of $50 to $60 billion, the infrastructure bank would have the power to insure bonds of state and local governments, provide targeted and precise subsidies, and issue its own thirty- to fifty-year bonds to finance itself with conservative 3:1 gearing. Such a bank could easily leverage $250 billion of new capital in its first several years and as much as $1 trillion over a decade. Run by an independent board nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, the bank would finance projects of regional and national significance, directing funds to their most important uses. It would provide a guidance system for the $73 billion that the federal government spends annually on infrastructure and avoid wasteful "earmark" appropriations. The bank's source of funding would come from funds now dedicated to existing federal programs. Legislation has been proposed that would create such an infrastructure bank. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) has introduced a House bill, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) have brought forward legislation in the Senate. The Senate bill, with $10 billion of initial funding, is a modest proposal but passing it would give us a strong start. We should regard infrastructure spending as an investment rather than an expense and should establish a national, capital budget for infrastructure. While this idea is not new, it has been unable to gain political traction. From a federal budgeting standpoint, it would be the wisest thing to do. President Obama and Congress should take action promptly. Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences. Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations Investment in America's physical infrastructure is directly tied to economic development. Businesses and the workforces they attract consider infrastructure when deciding where to locate. Too often, however, pressed by day-to-day concerns, state and local governments fail to adequately plan and invest in infrastructure. Tight budgets make it easy for officials to rationalize the deferral of investment until a time when surpluses return. Unfortunately, this pattern has been repeated for decades, and the accumulation of deferred maintenance and deferred investment in future infrastructure has led to an unsatisfactory status quo. To ensure America's future competitiveness in the global marketplace, we must rethink our approach to the construction and financing of infrastructure. And in this policy area, many of the most promising ideas for unlocking public value involve public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. The key question in a debate about infrastructure should be: "How can we produce the most public value for the money?" Answering this question should lead us to pursue both operational and financing innovations. The private sector has an important role to play in both. Public officials can produce more value for the dollar by better structuring the design, construction, operation, and financing of infrastructure projects that produce more lifecycle benefits and fewer handoffs among various private parties. A private partner can often achieve savings for government by identifying operational efficiencies and assuming risk formerly held by the public sector. Unlike the traditional model for bridge construction in which one firm designs, one firm builds, one company finances, and the public maintains, an arrangement which gives the private firm an ongoing responsibility for maintenance or durability will encourage design optimization and likely increase the length of the asset's lifecycle. Public-private partnerships can produce access to capital that will accelerate the building of critical infrastructure in sectors ranging from transportation to wastewater treatment. However, maximizing their potential to solve America's infrastructure challenges also requires governments to create a regulatory climate conducive to them. Government agencies should be given maximum flexibility to enter into partnerships with the private sector; and private companies should not have to navigate unreasonable tax laws that limit their ability to partner with government entities to produce better public value. At a time when every dollar counts, extracting maximum public value out of infrastructure investment is crucial. The private sector can be a strong partner to government. By prioritizing long-term value creation over short-term politics, America can bridge the infrastructure divide and ensure our continued prosperity.

Transportation investment now is critical to job and economic growth – Economic consensus is that it resolves problems of demand, boost business confidence and growth and solves the deficit
Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, September 2011, “Government Spending Can Create Jobs – and Itt Has”,
[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf]] [RR]

President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.” Even though our economy was nearly two years into the Great Recession and jobs were being lost at a record pace, he projected a sense of optimism that, together, we could fix it. And history tells us that even when economic times are bleak, there are doable steps that a government can take that make a difference to get the economy back on a path of growth and job creation. Indeed, there’s a long history that when unemployment rises, the government steps in to pave the way for job creation. And these policies have been effective. It’s time to do so again because, well, yes, we can. There is an empirically grounded body of literature documenting the effectiveness of fiscal expansion during recessions and the importance of economic multipliers in creating jobs above and beyond those directly created by one firm or one government project.1 The New Deal programs of the Great Depression are, of course, the granddaddy of these measures. The New Deal programs stabilized our economy, though it was the massive government job creation fueled by World War II that finally put an end to the economic devastation. Since then, presidents and congresses of all political stripes—including the Bush administration— have embraced short-term, temporary fiscal expansion to create jobs in times of labor market weakness.2 Each time, they worked as intended. And this isn’t just the experience of the United States. Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises. The role of government in our economy is not, of course, limited to times of economic distress. Government investments in basic science brought us the Internet, the microwave oven, and satellite communications, and have led the fight against cancer. Government investment in new, innovative businesses has helped many companies grow into household names. The Small Business Investment Company Program, financed by the federal Small Business Administration, helped Nike Inc., Apple Inc., and FedEx Corp. grow into the global business powerhouses they are today.3 Then there are the basic regulations, which create a level playing field for businesses so, for example, when you go to a gas station a gallon is a gallon, the aspirin you buy at the pharmacy is really aspirin, and the ground beef is actually beef. These basic kinds of rules prevent economically costly damage to consumers and public health. The courts enforce contracts, and markets are regulated so investors can invest with some confidence that the information they receive is honest. Government spending is also an important part of the economy. Millions of people work for the government and millions more are employed in government-funded work and all those dollars flowing into the economy create even more jobs. For example, the Federal Highway Administration periodically estimates the impact of highway spending on direct employment, defined as jobs created by the firms working on a given project; on supporting jobs, including those in firms supplying materials and equipment for projects; and on indirect employment generated when those in the first two groups make consumer purchases with their paychecks. In 2007, $1 billion in federal highway expenditures supported about 30,000 jobs—10,300 in construction, 4,675 in supporting industries, and 15,094 in induced employment.4 Today, though, is a special time when it comes to the role of government. The lingering consequences of the Great Recession—the housing crisis, the jobs crisis, the fear among businesses to invest their earnings despite record profits—continue to push against faster economic growth and job creation. In short, the economy continues to suffer from a lack of demand. Monetary authorities have already pushed interest rates down to zero. Congress needs to step up and focus on expansionary fiscal policy. Unless Congress acts, the private sector will continue to generate insufficient demand. Because customers have less money to spend due to the collapse of the housing bubble and the ensuing high unemployment, businesses have little incentive to hire and invest. The federal government can help with this. It can take measures to create private-sector jobs by moving up investments that the public needs anyway—investments in roads and bridges, investment in changes that the country needs to make, such as the movement to a more energy efficient cleaner economy, investments in education and research and development. We know this most recently from fighting the Great Recession. Government has a critical role to play in paving the way for job creation The analysis of economic multipliers is well known and economists have found that the multipliers are largest when overall demand is weak, like current economic conditions in the United States.5 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other steps taken to address the Great Recession targeted funds toward a variety of specific job-creation efforts that have been shown to have created jobs and been cost-effective. A few concrete examples of how public investments have created jobs include: • Increased investments in infrastructure saved or created 1.1 million jobs in construction industry and 400,000 jobs in manufacturing by March 2011. Almost all of these jobs were in the private sector.6 The reason for this success is simple: Upgrading roads, bridges, and other basic infrastructure not only creates jobs but also paves the way for businesses small, medium, and large to benefit. Infrastructure investments lower the cost of doing business, making U.S. companies more competitive. And they put people to work earning good, middle-class incomes, which expands the consumer base for businesses. • There were a variety of ways that the Recovery Act encouraged infrastructure investment. Build America Bonds, for example, lowered the cost of borrowing for states who invested in infrastructure, which meant that public projects are more affordable for states—and ultimately, a better deal for taxpayers.7 • By the end of 2010, $93 billion in investments to the green economy had created or saved nearly 1 million American jobs.8 These 997,000 jobs include both the “green jobs” created directly by investment in specific industries and indirectly by their suppliers, as well as the additional jobs created when workers spend their incomes back into the economy. • Three programs for energy efficiency retrofits, the Weatherization Assistance Program, Energy Efficiency Block Grant Program, and state energy programs collectively upgraded over half a million (530,000) buildings and employed almost 25,000 Americans since the programs began to ramp up from April 1, 2011 and June 30, 2011.9 • Three other clean energy programs also led to job creation. The Treasury Department’s cash grant in lieu of a tax credit (known as the 1603 program), the advanced energy manufacturing tax credit (known as the 48C program), and the Department of Energy loan guarantee program together cost the government about $7 billio— and leveraged more than $12 billion in private capital and account for more than 120,000 direct jobs.10 • Direct aid to states, to a large extent, created jobs in the private sector. Every increase of $100,000 in state aid increased employment by 3.8 jobs for a year, of which 3.2 jobs were outside the government, health, and education sectors.11 • Funding from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Emergency Fund made it possible for 250,000 workers to find jobs through public-private partnerships.12 These programs protect families and their incomes otherwise hurt through no fault of their own by the economic downturn. Putting a floor under them helps to ensure that the customer base for businesses doesn’t totally dry up. • As a result of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and other components of the Recovery Act, the Department of Education reports that more than 400,000 teachers eot to keep their jobs.13 Money targeted toward the long-term unemployed helped not only those individual families hardest hit by the Great Recession but also kept dollars flowing into their local communities and helped unemployed workers access health care, undoubtedly mitigating the well-documented negative health effects of unemployment. In a report for the Department of Labor, Wayne Vroman, an economist at the Urban Institute, estimated that the unemployment insurance system closed about one-fifth (18.3 percent) of the shortfall in the nation’s gross domestic product during the Great Recession.14 Unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed have kept an average of 1.6 million American workers in jobs every quarter during the recession.15 In fiscal year 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Fund allocated more than $21.2 billion to seven USDA programs that invest in rural infrastructure, businesses, and homes. These programs upgraded public utilities and community facilities provided broadband connections to businesses and homes, invested in rural businesses, and helped rural families purchase homes. In addition to improving quality of life, these investments resulted in over 300,000 jobs for rural residents.16 The steps taken in early 2009 brought the economy back from the precipice and created millions of private-sector jobs. Private employers have added jobs for 18 straight months, including over 300,000 jobs in manufacturing since its low point in late 2009. Overall, the private sector has added 2.4 million jobs since the economy bottomed out in February 2010, many of which are due to increased demand in the economy provided by government funding.17 There is much more to be done, however, as this isn’t enough jobs given the depth of the Great Recession. We know that overall, the Recovery Act created or saved millions of jobs. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office credits the Recovery Act with increasing employment in the second quarter of 2011 by 1.4 million to 4 million jobs and reducing unemployment by between 0.5 and 1.6 percent.18 Economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi estimate that the Recovery Act and other fiscal policies resulted in 2.7 million jobs, and that without them unemployment would have hit 11 percent and job losses would have totaled 10 million.19 And, by taking decisive action to address the hemorrhaging of jobs and the fall in economic activity, Congress and the administration actually reduced the deficit, relative to where it would be today had no such action been taken. At the most basic level, government spending reduced unemployment and thus increased tax revenues. The current projected budget deficit for fiscal year 2011 stands at $1.3 trillion.20 Had Congress done nothing to stop the hemorrhaging of jobs, economists estimate that the deficit would have ballooned to more than twice as large as it actually did, hitting $2.6 trillion in fiscal year 2011.21 Clearly, there is solid evidence that government spending can create jobs in a recession as deep and protracted as the Great Recession. In fact, given current conditions, investments in infrastructure, education, and other areas are critical to job creation and boosting the U.S. economy. This is something that economic forecasters from across the political spectrum agree on: The need now is to boost demand, not cut spending.22 Supply-side economics is not the answer The supply-side mantra of tax cuts for the wealthy is not a job creation strategy for current economic conditions, especially given past policy decisions. It’s important to remember that we have been living in a Bush-tax-cut economy since 2001. That brought us an anemic economic recovery from the 2001 recession. Investment growth, employment growth, and overall economic output all were slower than any other economic recovery in the post-World War II era. The result: For the first time in over a half century, middle-class families saw their incomes fall during an economic expansion, from 2000 to 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms, even as the economy overall grew.23 What’s more, in the interest of encouraging firms to invest and create jobs, we have kept tax levels below the Bush levels for the entire Great Recession, and have already extended these tax cuts for another two years beginning in 2011. The problem we face is not that the wealthy are not rich enough. The problem is that the policies of the 2000s left us with a hollowed out middle class that should be the engine of economic growth. With companies sitting on large amounts of cash—the share of financial assets that is cash is higher than at any time since 1984—firms already have the funds to invest.24 Given this, another tax cut isn’t likely to tip the balance much, but what will is more customers, that is, more demand. There was once bipartisan agreement that recessions called for increased spending. In January 2008, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which injected over $150 billion dollars into the economy, with the support of 165 Republicans. President Bush signed it.25 In the spring of 2008, Congress extended benefits for the long-term unemployed, with the support of 182 Republicans. President Bush signed it into law.26 These policy actions had their intended effect by temporarily boosting spending. But employment declines continued, especially after the financial crisis of 2008 spilled over into the broader economy. Those consequences are still with us today—for employed and unemployed Americans alike. Yet it is increasingly apparent that the House Republican leadership has only one goal, spending cuts, even at the risk of throwing our government into default and even as a wide range of experts recognize that the key variable in demand right now is how much the federal government spends.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]

But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Keynesian theory is right - return revenues, the multiplier effect, the shock effect, interest rates, self- financing – our evidence is from a literature review
Ray C. Fair, John M. Musser Professor of Economics at Yale University. Fair received his B.A. from Fresno State College in 1964 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1968. He spent several years at Princeton University before moving to Yale. He is now a professor within the Cowles Foundation and the International Center for Finance, May 2012, “IS FISCAL STIMULUS A GOOD IDEA?”, [[http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu/rayfair/pdf/2012A.PDF]] [RR]
DSGE - Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium

Ramey (2011) reviews the literature on estimating the size of the government spending multiplier, where government spending is purchases of goods (not transfer payments) and there are no spending decreases or tax increases later. She concludes that the multiplier is probably between 0.8 and 1.5, although the range is considerably higher than this. Fair (2010) also compares multipliers from a few studies, both regarding an increase in government purchases of goods and an increase in transfer payments or a decrease in taxes. After four quarters for an increase in purchases of goods the multiplier is 1.44 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 0.44 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.55 for Hall (2009), 1.96 for the MC model, and a range of 1.0 to 2.5 for the CBO (2010). After four quarters for an increase in transfer payments or decrease in taxes, the multiplier is 0.66 for Romer and Bernstein (2009), 1.10 for Romer and Romer (2010), 1.1 for Barro and Redlick (2011), 0.99 for the MC model, and a range of 0.8 to 2.1 for the CBO (2010). The Romer and Bernstein multiplier peaks at 0.99 after 8 quarters, the Romer and Romer multiplier peaks at 3.08 after 10 quarters, and the MC multiplier peaks at 1.10 after 6 quarters. Again, there are no future spending decreases or tax increases for these results. The CBO (2010) uses results from two commercial forecasting models and the FRB-US model of the Federal Reserve Board to choose ranges for a number of government spending and tax multipliers on output. Romer and Bernstein (2009) follow a similar methodology. They use a commercial forecasting model and the FRB-US model to choose government spending and tax multipliers on output. Hall (2009), Barro and Redlick (2011), and Romer and Romer (2010) follow a reduced form approach. The change in real GDP is regressed on the change in the policy variable of interest and a number of other variables. The equation estimated is not, however, a true reduced form equation because many variables are omitted, and so the coefficient estimate of the policy variable will be biased if the policy variable is correlated with omitted variables. The aim using this approach is to choose a policy variable that seems unlikely to be correlated with the omitted variables. Hall (2009) and Barro and Redlick (2011) are concerned with government spending multipliers and focus on defense spending during wars.1 Romer and Romer (2010) are concerned with tax multipliers and use narrative records to choose what they consider exogenous tax policy actions, i.e, actions that are uncorrelated with the omitted variables. Auerbach and Gorodnichenko (2012) use a structural VAR approach that allows for different multipliers in expansions and recessions to estimate government spending (on goods and services) multipliers. Their general result is that multipliers are larger in recessions than in expansions. Their experiments on ones with no future tax increases or spending decreases. Coenen et al. (2012) estimate government spending multipliers for nine DSGE models. The experiments consist of government spending or tax shocks from a steady state, where each model has a fiscal-policy rule that eventually returns the economy to the steady state, so there is no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. The models have rational expectations, and so everyone knows that the initial increase in debt will be paid off eventually. The experiments are run under various 1Barro and Redlick (2011) also estimate a tax multiplier. assumptions about monetary accommodation. The experiments with these models differ from those reported above in that the debt/GDP ratio is forced back to the baseline (the steady state) in the long run. One might think that the fiscal multipliers would be small in these models because agents know that the extra spending will eventually be paid for. In fact, the short-run multipliers are fairly large in most cases and the sums of the output gaps over the entire period are generally positive. For government purchases of goods the short-run multipliers are between about 0.7 and 1.0 for the United States with no monetary accommodation and between about 1.2 and 2.2 with two years of monetary accommodation. The short-run multipliers are also fairly large for increases in transfer payments that are targeted to liquidity constrained households, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 with two years of monetary accommodation. The tone of the Coenen et al. (2012) article is that temporary fiscal stimulus can be very helpful, especially if there is monetary accommodation. The general features of the DSGE models that lead to the above conclusion are the following. A government spending shock (or decrease in taxes) stimulates liquidity-constrained households to consume more. Given this increased demand, firms that are allowed to change their prices raise them, but firms that are not allowed to change their prices are committed to sell all that is demanded at their current (unchanged) prices. The overall price level goes up, but there is also an output effect. All this happens even though agents in the model know that the increased government debt will eventually be paid back through lower future government spending or higher taxes. The initial (essentially constrained) output effect dominates. It is also the case that the mark-up falls for those firms that cannot change their prices. The increased inflation that is generated may lead the monetary authority to raise the interest rate, and so the results are sensitive to what is assumed about monetary policy. There is finally a recent paper by DeLong and Summers (2012), which argues that there may be times in which fiscal expansions are self-financing—no long run increase in the debt/GDP ratio. There are no estimated equations in this paper, no lagged effects of government spending on output, and some calibrated parameters that seem unrealistic or for which there is little empirical support. For example, the marginal tax-and-transfer rate is taken to be 0.33, which seems too high. In 2011 the ratio of federal government tax receipts (including social security taxes) and unemployment benefits to GDP was 0.17. This is an average rate and the marginal rate may be higher, but 37 percent of tax receipts are social security taxes, where the tax rate is flat and then zero at some income level. There is also a key hysteresis parameter in the model, also calibrated, which reflects the assumption that potential output depends on current output in depressed states of the economy. If current fiscal stimulus increases future potential output, there is obviously some effect large enough to generate enough extra future government revenue to pay for the stimulus.

There’s slow growth now but it won’t be enough for a sustainable recovery – this makes double dip inevitable in the short term
Jack Rasmus, Ph. D Political Economy, 06-05-2011, “The Coming Double-Dip Recession”, [[http://truth-out.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=1443:the-coming-doubledip-recession|http://truth-out.org/index.php]]
[[http://truth-out.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=1443:the-coming-doubledip-recession|?option=com_k2&view=item&id=1443:the-coming-doubledip-recession]] [RR]

On June 1, stock markets in New York and around the world declined in levels not seen since summer 2010. Days and weeks immediately ahead will likely register even further significant market declines, as the obvious becomes increasingly evident: the US and other major global economies are once again on the cusp of a significant slowdown. In a recent post a few weeks ago, entitled "Why March-April's Job Gains Will Collapse This Summer," this writer warned that the official hype about job recovery promoted by the business press and distorted US government data was grossly inaccurate. Behind the false jobs data lay a growing picture of imminent economic relapse. The US Labor Department's jobs numbers due this Friday, June 3, will likely further corroborate this view. But the coming economic slowdown is not simply a result of the failure to create a sustained recovery of jobs in the US for the past two years of so-called economic recovery. Nearly all economic indicators have been deteriorating since the beginning of 2011, even though policy makers and Wall Street investors have been diligently ignoring the fact. Consumption growth, which represents 70 percent of the US economy, early in 2011 fell by half compared to the previous period in 2010, from 4 percent to 2.2 percent. Real spending, adjusted for inflation, has been mostly flat so far in 2011. Rising gas prices have accounted for 60 percent of consumption gains in 2011. Escalating prices for food, health care, local taxes and education costs have taken a further toll. The wealthiest 10 percent of consumer households now account for 60 percent of spending - buoyed by the past year of stock market gains that are now about to be reversed. High-end retail stores, like Tiffany's, rake in record sales while low-end retailers like Wal-Mart struggle for sales. Apart from the wealthiest households, there has, thus, been no real sustained recovery of consumer spending in the US economy for the past two years. Retail sales have fallen the last three months in a row. And the lack of job growth, falling home values, rising core inflation (food and energy) and declining real incomes for the 95 million households earning less than $100,000 a year means a "flat" scenario, at best, for consumer spending for 2011. Housing, which accounts for another 10 percent of the US economy, is in a deep depression, a condition comparable only to the 1930s. So, no help here. Housing starts, sales, building permits are off by 75 percent from 2007 highs. After having dropped by 25 percent in the first phase of the recession, then briefly leveling off, home prices are in decline once again. Another 15 percent drop is predicted. There's never been a sustained recovery from any of the ten post-1945 US recessions without a housing recovery; and the latter is clearly more unlikely than ever today, given the nearly ten million foreclosures and 16 million - i.e. more than a third of the total - homes in negative equity. What little economic growth has occurred since June 2009 has been the result of inventory buildup by business, moderate spending on tech equipment and a brief surge of manufacturing, with much of the latter driven by export sales. But manufacturing represents only 10 percent of the US economy and cannot by itself lead the economy onto a sustained growth path. Moreover, it, too, has begun to slow and decline in the past two months as the global sources of demand for US exports begin themselves to decline. The US index measuring manufacturing activity in May fell a full 7 points and new orders by almost 11 points - one of the largest declines in recent years and back to the low point of June 2009. Global sources for US exports are drying up as well. China, India and Brazil have all taken action to dramatically slow their economies' growth rates down by at least half. Meanwhile, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom have all re-entered a recession, while the periphery economies of the Eurozone continue in an ever-deepening economic contraction. The so-called economic recovery that has been underway since the official end of the recession in June 2009 has been the weakest and most lopsided recovery from recession in the post-1945 period. The "best" quarters of economic growth, which occurred in the second half of 2009, were merely half that typical of recoveries from recessions. In all "normal" recessions before 2007, growth averaged 8 percent to 9 percent in the quarters immediately following the official end of the preceding recession; following the June 2009 low point of the current recession, however, US economic growth was barely half that, averaging only 4 percent to 5 percent. In 2010, it further trended down. And in the first quarter of the current year, 2011, it was only 1.8 percent. For the second quarter of 2011, it will almost certainly fall below 1.8 percent. The "recovery" from the June 2009 recession trough actually lasted only 12 months. The US economy suffered a relapse by the summer 2010. Unemployment started rising in June 2010 and continued for the next three months, and home foreclosures hit record highs by August 2010. Nearly all other indicators recovered, at best, only half of their previous losses by late last summer. This led to the Federal Reserve Bank of the US policy of pumping another $600 billion into the economy last fall in the form of direct bond purchases from the public, a policy called Quantitative Easing 2, or QE2. That effort is now over and comes to an end this month, June 2011, however. The Fed policy succeeded in giving a final, last boost to the stock market, which is now dramatically coming to an end. It also succeeded in lowering the value of the US dollar and, thus, in temporarily stimulating export sales. But QE2 failed to lower mortgage rates much and resurrect the housing markets. And it totally failed to get banks to lend to small businesses and create jobs. Bank lending has fallen nearly every month since June 2009. Meanwhile, large businesses sit on their $2 trillion cash hoard and refuse to spend in the US to create jobs. What the US economy is about to experience this coming summer 2011 is, therefore, a return of the economic relapse that began a year ago, in summer 2010, but that was temporarily checked by government and Fed policies late last year. However, now that the Fed is in retreat once again, now that states and cities are beginning to cut spending and raise taxes in earnest and now that the Tea Party Congress and the Obama administration are about to dramatically cut federal spending as well - the combined effect will almost certainly result in another major economic relapse of the US economy in the months ahead.

It independently kills resiliency
Catherine Rampell, economics reporter for The New York Times; wrote for the Washington Post editorial pages and financial section, 08-07-2011, “Second Recession in U.S. Could Be Worse Than First”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/08/business/a-second-recession-could-be-much-worse-than-the-first.html?pagewanted=all

If the economy falls back into recession, as many economists are now warning, the bloodletting could be a lot more painful than the last time around. Given the tumult of the Great Recession, this may be hard to believe. But the economy is much weaker than it was at the outset of the last recession in December 2007, with most major measures of economic health — including jobs, incomes, output and industrial production — worse today than they were back then. And growth has been so weak that almost no ground has been recouped, even though a recovery technically started in June 2009. “It would be disastrous if we entered into a recession at this stage, given that we haven’t yet made up for the last recession,” said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist at RDQ Economics. When the last downturn hit, the credit bubble left Americans with lots of fat to cut, but a new one would force families to cut from the bone. Making things worse, policy makers used most of the economic tools at their disposal to combat the last recession, and have few options available. Anxiety and uncertainty have increased in the last few days after the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”

Stimulus is our only hope for averting a double dip in the short term – all austerity measures fail
Nouriel Roubini, is a New York University professor and former economic advisor to the Clinton administration, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm, received his Ph.D. in international economics from Harvard University in 1988, 08-12-2012, “"Dr. Doom" Takes A Look At The Economy”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/08/12/158644951/taking-a-doomy-look-at-the-economy]] [RR]

WERTHEIMER: So are you taking a doomy view of the U.S. economy in the near term? ROUBINI: I am concerned. Economic growth has been very slow. And at the end of the year, there'll be this fiscal cliff and some element of fiscal drag. WERTHEIMER: The fiscal cliff is the decision that the Congress has to make, to either renew the President Bush's tax cuts or permit rather drastic cuts in spending and increases in taxes to take place. ROUBINI: Yes, if all of those things were to occur, the drag on the economy could be very, very large and growth could be close to zero by next year. And we could be stuck and sulk again about stalled speed or a double-dip recession. WERTHEIMER: Now, as you pointed out, you did predict the crash in 2008. But you predicted something that was even more dire than what has happened. You talked about stock markets closing for days or weeks, stock prices going through the floor. Is anything that you're looking at pointing toward anything that serious this time? ROUBINI: Maybe not but there is certainly risk that by next year a perfect global storm may occur. By next year, you might have a disorderly breakup of the eurozone. You might have the fiscal drag leads to another recession in the U.S. China, growth is slowing down - they might have a hard landing. Other emerging markets growth is stalling. And in the Middle East, there is a risk that there may be a military confrontation between Israel and U.S. on one side and Iran of the issue of nuclear proliferation. So there are these five risks. If they were to materialize, then we'll have another global recession and it could be worse than the one we had in 2008/2013. WERTHEIMER: But isn't it also true that Germany might decide to take responsibility for some of the smaller countries and cover their debt; that the Chinese, since they are in such serious control of their economy, that they could manage this landing; that energy prices have been falling in the United States because we are doing so much production on our own, that perhaps we wouldn't hit a horrible bump if Middle Eastern oil quantities went down? I mean there are ways in which it could go this way, or it could go that way. ROUBINI: You're absolutely right. I would argue that in Germany in the core of the eurozone, there is also bailout fatigue. They say, for example, the Greeks had a Big Fat Greek Wedding, not for long weekend but for the last 20 years. We give them a first bailout, a second bailout, many Germans want to pull the plug. In China, you have a new government at the end of the year. Either they move away from net exports, from too much savings, from too much capital investments towards more consumption, or otherwise by next year China could have also a hard landing. In the U.S., we have shale gas. I think it has been hyped a bit too much. It's going to help the energy needs of the U.S., but that revolution may take 10 to 20 years. If there is a war in the Middle East next year, the shock to all prices is going to tip the U.S. into a recession because we're not going to be energy independent for at least another decade. WERTHEIMER: Is there anything that the Federal Reserve can do to avert this crisis that concerns you? ROUBINI: Yes, the Federal Reserve can help and so far it has helped. The fact that the Great Recession of '08/'13 did not turn into another Great Depression is due to the fact that we learned the lessons of the Great Depression. And it means that in the short term we need more fiscal stimulus. The reality however is that we're running out of policy bullets. Politically, we're not going to be able to bailout the banks and the bankers for a second time. I think there will be a political backlash against it. So if things are to turn sour compared to '08, when we had all the policy bullets, this time around would be worse. WERTHEIMER: One of the big themes in this election year is a call for austerity. If that means that the government should drastically cut spending, would it help? Would it avert a crisis or would it bring one on? ROUBINI: Unfortunately the U.S. political system is in a gridlock. And the reality is that in the medium time we have to reduce our budget deficit, and the way to do it is going to be a combination of reforming Social Security and Medicare on one side, but also gradually increasing the tax burden because right now it's very low, especially on those who can pay. And while we have to do fiscal austerity, if we do too much of it, next year or in the next couple of years, the risk, like in the eurozone, is that we end up into another recession because austerity, however necessary, in the short run has a negative effect on economic growth.

Strong growth outweighs all their turns
Bret Swanson, President of Entropy Economics a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 05-27-11, “The Growth Imperative”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/

The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed. In most conversations of deficits, entitlements, debt ceilings, and bond markets, economic growth goes unmentioned. In recent days, a few smart policy makers finally whispered it, yet not with the needed volume and specificity. Perhaps the paltry 1.8% first quarter GDP figure, when our recovery should be generating 5% numbers, will get the nation’s attention. Growth today is our biggest problem – but also our biggest opportunity. We’ve all seen the budget charts with steeply sloping outlays and trillion dollar deficits stretching over the horizon, leading inevitably to skyrocketing debt. The responsible people, like those gathered at Pete Peterson’s Fiscal Summit this week, tell us the only solution is to “cut spending and raise taxes” – in dramatic amounts. And of course less spending and more revenue are essential. But the partisan divide between the spending cutters and tax raisers is unlikely to yield a helpful policy path – more likely a muddle of growth killing taxes and out-year NIMTO (not in my term of office) spending cuts. Economic growth, on the other hand, swamps every spending cut and tax rate increase. In 2010, U.S. GDP was $14.66 trillion. Today’s 2% growth rate, over the long-term, would yield output of $17.9 trillion in 2020, $21.8 trillion in 2030, $26.6 trillion in 2040, and $32.4 trillion in 2050. But what if America committed to a bold long range growth goal? I’m no budget expert, but for a presentation to the National Chamber Foundation on May 24, I offered a few simple charts that tell the story. A 4% growth rate would mean almost $4 trillion in additional output in the year 2020, $10 trillion more in 2030, $21 trillion more in 2040, and an astounding $38 trillion more in 2050, when the economy would be more than twice as large had we kept growing at 2%. Over this period, with an arbitrarily chosen 20% tax-to-GDP ratio, a 4% growth rate would generate $109 trillion more revenue than a 2% growth rate. But 4% is wildly optimistic, you say. Perhaps. The consensus long range projection is just 2.5%. Fine, what if we could bump growth to a measly 3%? We would still generate an additional $25 trillion in tax revenue over the 40-year period. Didn’t the Medicare actuary just tell us the program’s unfunded liability is $24.6 trillion? Boosting the share of the economy we collect in taxes doesn’t do any good if the economy lags. Collecting 20% or 25% of GDP in taxes, as some propose, doesn’t get us anywhere close to balance if we grow just 2% or 2.5%. On the other hand, 4% growth with the historical 18% tax-GDP ratio keeps up with even our current profligate spending path. The power of compound growth towers over every other consideration. Rapid economic growth should thus be our chief national objective. We should measure every policy – extant and proposed – against this goal. Do our tax, regulatory, trade, immigration, and social policies help maximize economic growth? Or do they risk depressing our potential growth rate even just a bit? Compound growth is so powerful, no policy that imperils it should be tolerated. This Growth Test should inform and shape every debate. Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest. How do we grow? Immigration, fertility, and longevity are of course factors. In my book, more people are desirable. But the kind of growth we really need is based on an entrepreneurially venturesome economy full of experimentation and discovery. We need more new technologies, more new goods and services, more investors, more new companies. These things generate incremental productivity advances in existing industries and markets, but more importantly they create totally new industries and unlikely life enhancements. The keys are flexibility, investment, technology, and entrepreneurship. The Kauffman Foundation’s Brink Lindsey surmises that the most developed nations, like the U.S., need ever more freedom and entrepreneurship to grow. Developing nations can simply adopt the world’s leading edge technologies and business practices. Their growth path is relatively clear. Not so for us. Because we define the economic and technological frontier, we must keep pushing forward into an uncertain future.

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-2012, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment

Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event, especially for older workers. A paper by the economists Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter estimates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate for males by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the United States. The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also associated with some serious illnesses, although the causal links are poorly understood. Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying of the disease. Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems. The physical and psychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 2011, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf

Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/

Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

====**Contention 2 is Solvency**==== 

Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf

America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

Deficits are inevitable but infrastructure financing now is feasible and provides short and long term growth
William L. Holahan, is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and Charles O. Kroncke, is associate dean in the University of South Florida College of Business, 06-13-2012, :On U.S. infrastructure, spend now, gain later”, http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/on-us-infrastructure-spend-now-gain-later/1234943

When the American Society of Civil Engineers issued a report card giving D and F grades for major infrastructure assets in the United States, the group estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion to rehabilitate them. Even though these public sector assets support the private sector of the economy, and despite the availability of cheap money, Congress has no current plans to remedy this situation. Its reluctance to support investment in infrastructure is unfortunate because this is an opportune time to earn a better report card; presently, we can borrow at very low interest rates to upgrade our streets, roads, bridges, railroads, school buildings, Internet bandwidth and K-12 education. We have earned the trust of foreign investors, who value the safety of our financial markets and seek to loan us money through their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds. In the short run, infrastructure investment would stimulate business growth and employ otherwise unemployed resources of labor and equipment. In the longer run, when these assets are in good working order, they would support faster growth of the economy, a prerequisite for bringing down the national debt and putting workers back on the path to higher after-tax incomes. What are we waiting for? Congressional inaction reflects the public concern over "runaway spending" and the rapid rise in the debt over the past 30 years, and especially the last five. Much of this concern rests on the falsely imagined equivalence of all government spending. But consumption spending and investment spending play very different roles in the economy, whether done by a firm, a family or the government. Our national debate should pivot from a narrow focus on debt alone to one that separates investment from consumption, that is, whether the borrowed money is spent in ways that repayment can be expected through increased future productivity. Carefully chosen infrastructure spending is an investment that pays for itself in greater economic growth; in fact, failure to make these investments can retard growth. Infrastructure investment spending is more likely to be accepted by struggling taxpayers than increased consumption spending on safety net programs such as food stamps or extended unemployment insurance, however dire the need for such programs may be. Seriously? More debt? How often have we heard that the size of our current national debt — some $15 trillion — prevents us from borrowing more money? Even with interest rates this low and opportunities so beneficial, the resistance to further borrowing is quite strong. The false and misleading claim is that we have already "mortgaged the future" and we "don't have the money." These slogans reflect a key concern: the ability to repay the debt. The usual measure of the ability to repay debt is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. Since infrastructure assets have very long lives, this measure should be calculated over a long time horizon. The public debt is projected to grow to $70 trillion over the next 75 years. If we experience 2 percent economic growth, national income over this period will total $2.46 quadrillion. The resulting ratio would be a mere 2.84 percent, demonstrating that as a nation, we are in a position to make cost-beneficial, growth-enhancing investments. Some additional arithmetic makes this point more forcefully. Suppose the infrastructure investments enable the economy to grow just one-tenth of one percent faster (2.1 percent versus 2.0 percent). Due to the power of compound interest, the added GDP over those 75 years is $116 trillion. Yes, the projected national debt is large, much larger than this year's GDP. But arithmetic also shows that failure to invest in growth will deny future generations the enormous gains available from even tiny improvements in economic growth rates.
===1AC Hendrickson=== 

====**Plan Text**==== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national investment bank for transportation infrastructure.

====**Contention 1 is Growth**==== 

First is declining infrastructure – it’s undermining the foundation of the U.S. economy and is only going to get worse
Thomas J. Donohue, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, 09-08-2011, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2011/0908/The-highway-to-jobs-via-better-infrastructure

As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of Commerce: Invest heavily in roads, air transport, and other infrastructure. The economy and jobs depend on it. Adopt innovative financing, including an infrastructure bank to leverage private investment. Throughout America's history, feats in infrastructure, like the Interstate Highway System, have not only been symbols of national achievement but also conduits for commerce and keys to prosperity. Today, however, much of this foundation of the US economy is costly, cracked, and crumbling. Roads, rail, airports, and harbors need continual investment to keep pace with demand. Recent research by the US Chamber of Commerce discovered that underperforming transport infrastructure cost the US economy nearly $2 trillion in lost gross domestic product in 2008 and 2009. The chamber's Transportation Performance Index showed that America's transit system is not keeping up with growing demands and is failing to meet the needs of the business community and consumers. Most important, the research proved for the first time that there is a direct relationship between transportation infrastructure performance and GDP. The index findings also showed that if America invests wisely in infrastructure, it can become more reliable, predictable, and safe. By improving underperforming transport infrastructure, the United States could unlock nearly $1 trillion in economic potential. Making investments that tackle immediate challenges, like congestion, and that account for growing demand into the future, America would boost productivity and economic growth in the long run and support millions of jobs in the near term. Investment in infrastructure would also improve quality of life by reducing highway fatalities and accidents and easing traffic congestion that costs the public $115 billion a year in lost time and wasted fuel - $808 out of the pocket of every motorist. Such an investment would also allow the country to better protect the environment while increasing mobility. If America fails to adequately invest in transportation infrastructure, by 2020 it will lose $897 billion in economic growth. Businesses will see their transportation costs rise by $430 billion, and the average American household income will drop by more than $7,000. US exports will decline by $28 billion. Meanwhile, global competitors will surge past us with superior infrastructure that will attract jobs, businesses, and capital. So how can the US get its infrastructure to go from insufficient and declining to safe, competitive, and productive? An obvious place to start is for Congress to pass core bills for surface transportation, aviation, and water programs - at current funding levels. Congress must move forward with multiyear reauthorizations to restore the nation's highways; modernize air traffic control and improve airports; and maintain American ports, harbors, dams, and levees.Doing so would enable communities to plan projects, hire employees, and prevent devastating layoffs of existing workers. Reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration alone would help keep 70,000 workers on the job. Next, America should expand energy infrastructure to support growing needs. A great example is the Keystone XL pipeline to connect Canadian oil sands with Texas refineries. The sooner the project is approved and construction begins, the sooner the US can rake in the benefits of added investment and government revenues, job creation, and more resources to fuel energy needs and keep costs down for businesses and consumers. Likewise, the US can't let a needlessly cumbersome permitting process stand in the way of infrastructure development. The administration should limit environmental reviews to six months and forgo reviews when no significant environmental impact is expected. Duplicative reviews by state and federal governments should be prevented and, when multiple agencies are involved, a lead agency should be appointed to coordinate actions and move things along. Accelerating the permitting process would quickly mobilize construction and hiring from one end of the country to the other. In this era of tight government budgets, America must adopt innovative financing approaches and spur on public-private partnerships. A national infrastructure bank must be a part of a long-term investment strategy. An initial government investment of $10 billion could leverage up to $600 billion in private funds.But regulatory impediments must also be removed. They take an estimated $250 billion in global capital out of play. If that private capital were invested in infrastructure projects, it could create 1.9 million jobs over 10 years and spur untold economic growth. As for public investments, sooner or later we'll have to face the fact that the federal fuel tax has not been raised 1 cent in 17 years. The country needs modest, phased-in increase. Comprehensively restoring America's infrastructure and revitalizing the economy are monumental tasks. Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.

This negatively influences the entire economy - prevents a resilient supply chain
Richard Little, director at the Keston institute for public finance and infrastructure policy, 04-05-2011, “Infrastructure investment and U.S. Competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585

The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of U.S. GDP or $3.5 trillion, but many transport linkages have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The entire U.S. economy, as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and resilient supply chain. Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates. Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so. The first step in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place. Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.

Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment – a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick and macroeconomist and bond investor, 03-30-2011, “For a National Investment Bank,” http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/

But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the exhaustion of the current policy options? We believe that it could. Keynes was skeptical that economies can stage spontaneous recoveries from major slumps because he recognized the central importance of confidence in a market system. The destruction of confidence caused by a severe recession leads to a collapse in investment, which leads to further deterioration in confidence, and hence to further reduction in investment. In a slump, there is no shortage of savings and liquidity in the economy (and this is why further increasing liquidity, for example by quantitative easing, does little good). The problem is that private businesses do not want to borrow and invest—regardless of how low interest rates on borrowing are—because the future is particularly uncertain and they see no clear prospects for future demand. The current situation in the US conforms closely to Keynes’s analysis. There is no shortage of savings—the proportion of disposable income that American households save has jumped from below 2 percent immediately before the crisis to over 5 percent today, and US banks are sitting on record levels of cash. But there is a chronic shortage of confidence in future demand—so these savings are sitting in the most riskless of places—in short-term Treasury bills, and in banks’ accounts at the Federal Reserve. Keynes’s summary of the situation in 1932 still makes sense today, though in less extreme degree: It may still be the case that the lender, with his confidence shattered by his experience, will continue to ask for new enterprise rates of interest which the borrower cannot expect to earn…. If this proves to be so, there will be no means of escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by state intervention to promote and subsidise new investment. The central challenge is to restore confidence on the one hand and on the other to find a way of deploying idle cash to finance the resulting investments. Keynes argued for the direct solution: let the government do both. By increasing fiscal expenditure, it will support demand now and bolster confidence for the future; and by issuing bonds to finance the resulting deficit, it will put the savings currently hiding in cash and Treasury bills to work. In effect, expenditures sponsored by government would substitute for the lost confidence of the private sector until business regains the confidence needed for future investment. For the time being such a policy is politically impossible, as President Obama has made clear. But the creation of a National Investment Bank provides an alternative solution—and one that has the cardinal virtue, in the current political situation, of not requiring the government to increase its borrowing significantly. As in the classical Keynesian solution, the federal government can revive confidence by making clear its support for large-scale, long-term investment programs—programs that will involve tens of billions of dollars of investment and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. But unlike in the classical solution, the investments will be made by the private sector or by local governments, and the idle cash to fund these investments will be borrowed and deployed not by the federal government but by the National Investment Bank. Of course, the creation of a National Investment Bank cannot be a fiscal free lunch. Congress would need to appropriate sufficient funds to inject the initial capital of the bank. But the essence of banking is the ability to make loans up to a multiple of several times initial capital. For every dollar of initial capital from Congress, the National Investment Bank would be able to finance investment up to a sizable multiple of this initial capital by borrowing the extra dollars now languishing in the private capital markets. It would operate in two main ways. In some cases, the bank would offer a partial or full guarantee of repayment on bonds issued directly by investment projects themselves, thereby assuming some or all of the risk of the projects, and so reducing their cost of funding. But for the most part, the bank itself would lend to finance investment projects, and raise funds for lending from the capital markets by issuing long-term bonds carrying a modest premium over the interest rate on government securities. Such National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

Stimulus self-finances and directs investment into the economy – the current fiscal climate super-charges a long-term output growth rate
Lawrence H. Summers, is an American economist. He served as the 71st United States Secretary of the Treasury from 1999 to 2001 under President Bill Clinton. He was Director of the White House United States National Economic Council for President Barack Obama until November 2010.[2] Summers is the Charles W. Eliot University Professor at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. He is the 1993 recipient of the John Bates Clark Medal for his work in several fields of economics, and J. Bradford DeLong, is a professor of Economics and chair of the Political Economy major at the University of California, Berkeley. He served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury in the Clinton Administration under Lawrence Summers. He is also a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and is a visiting scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 03-20-2012, “Fiscal Policy in a Depressed Economy”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/Programs/ES/BPEA/2012_spring_bpea_papers/2012_spring_BPEA_delongsummers.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/Programs/ES/BPEA/2012_spring_bpea_papers/2012_spring_BPEA_delongsummers.pdf]]

This paper focuses on policy choices in a deeply depressed demand constrained economy in which present output and spending are well below their potential level. We presume for the moment that monetary policy is constrained by the zero lower bound, and that the central bank is unable or unwilling to provide additional stimulus through quantitative easing or other means—an assumption we discuss further in Section V. The fact that most estimates of Federal Reserve reaction functions suggest that, if it were possible to have negative short-term safe nominal interest rates, they would have been chosen in recent years suggests the relevance of our analysis. 7 We focus on the impact of temporary fiscal stimulus on the government’s long run budget constraint. A very simple calculation conveys the major message of this paper: A combination of low real U.S. Treasury borrowing rates, positive fiscal multiplier effects, and modest hysteresis effects is sufficient to render fiscal expansion self-financing. Imagine a demand-constrained economy where the fiscal multiplier is 1.5, and the real interest rate on long-term government debt is 1 percent. Finally assume that a $1 increase in GDP increases tax revenues and reduces spending by $.33. Assume that the government is able to undertake a transitory increase in government spending, and then service the resulting debt in perpetuity, without any impact on risk premia. Then the impact effect of an incremental $1.00 of spending is to raise the debt stock by $0.50. The annual debt service needed on this $0.50 to keep the real debt constant is $0.005. If reducing the size of the current downturn in production by $1.50 avoids a 1% as large fall in future potential output—avoids a fall in future potential output of $0.015—then the incremental $1.00 of spending now augments future-period tax revenues by $0.005. And the fiscal expansion is self-financing. The point would be reinforced by allowing for underlying growth in the economy, positive impacts of spending on future output, and increases in the price level as a result of expansion. It is dependent on multiplier and hysteresis effects, the assumption about government borrowing costs, and the assumption that government spending once increased can again be reduced. These issues and assumptions are explored in subsequent sections. Below we develop a framework for assessing under what conditions fiscal expansion is self-financing, and whether fiscal expansion will pass a benefit-cost test. Throughout, we assume a transitory increase in government spending and assume that it does not affect government borrowing costs. We address these issues in subsequent sections. A temporary boost G to government purchases to increase aggregate demand in a depressed economy has four principal effects: First, there is the standard short-term aggregate demand multiplier. In the present period, prices are predetermined or slow to adjust and in which the level of production is demand-determined. A boost to government spending for the present period only of G percentage point-years is amplified or damped by the economy’s shortterm multiplier coefficient  and boosts production and income Yn (“n” for “now) in the present period by an amount of percentage point-years: (2.1)  Yn  G We shall discuss plausible views as to the value of  in normal times, and make the crucial point that there is a strong likelihood that  is now above its normal-time value, in Section III. Second, there are “hysteresis” effects: a depressed economy is one in which investment is low; in which the capital stock is growing slowly; and in which workers without employment are seeing their skills, their weak-tie networks they use to match themselves with vacancies in the labor market, and their morale decays. All of these reduce potential output. In future periods production is supply determined, and equal to potential output. Thus in future periods potential and actual output Yf will be lower by some fraction  of the depth by which the economy is depressed in the present: (2.2)  Yf Yn where the units of  are inverse years: percent reductions in the flow of future potential output per percentage point-year of the present-period output gap. We discuss the mechanisms which may make  nonzero, and evaluate its likely magnitude in Section IV. In an economy with a long-term output growth rate g and a social rate of time discount r and where r>g so that present-value calculations are possible, the net effect of these first two on the socially-discounted present value 8 of the economy’s production is: (2.3)  V     r  g      G where V is the present value of future output. Third, financing the expansion G of government purchases in the present period increases the national debt by an amount D. In an economy with a multiplier coefficient  and a baseline marginal tax-and-transfer rate , the required increase in the national debt is: (2.4)  D  (1 )G In order to maintain a constant debt-to-GDP ratio in the future periods thereafter, a fraction of this debt must be amortized. Assume for now that the real interest rate on government debt is equal to the social rate of time discount r. The taxes needed to finance these debt-amortization payments impose a marginal excess burden  per dollar: (2.5)  V     r  g  1       G where the future amortization at a constant debt-to-GDP ratio of the present-period fiscal expansion requires the government to commit recurring future-period cash flows of: (2.6)  r  g1  to this task. This paper assumes that there is a budget constraint: that the appropriate long-run real r is greater than the growth rate of the tax base g, The fourth effect is a knock-on consequence of the second. Higher future-period output from the smaller hysteresis shadow cast on the economy because expanded government purchases reduce the size of the present-period depression means that the taxes  levied to finance baseline government programs and to amortize the preexisting national debt bring in more revenue. The effect on the government’s future period net cash flows then becomes: (2.7)  r  g1 

Second is the double dip, the U.S. is on the brink – backsliding collapses the global economy
Ashfaqur Rahman, former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies, 08-21-2011, “Another global recession?”, http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461

Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear. First, the US recovery from the last recession has been fragile. Its economy is much more susceptible to geopolitical shocks. Second there is a rise in fuel prices. The political instability in the Middle East is far from over. This is causing risks for the country and the international economy. Third, the global food prices in July this year is markedly higher than a year ago, almost 35% more. Commodities such as maize (up 84%), sugar (up 62%), wheat (up 55%), soybean oil (up 47%) have seen spike in their prices. Crude oil prices have also risen by 45%, affecting production costs. In the US, even though its debt ceiling has been raised and the country can now continue to borrow, credit agencies have downgraded its credit rating and therefore its stock markets have started to flounder. World Bank President Zoellick recently said: "There was a convergence of some events in Europe and the US that has led many market participants to lose confidence in economic leadership of the key countries." He added: "Those events, combined with other fragilities in the nature of recovery, have pushed US into a new danger zone." Employment in the US has, therefore, come near to a grinding halt. Prices of homes there continue to slide. Consumer and business spending is slowing remarkably. So, when the giant consumer economy slows down, there would be less demand for goods she buys from abroad, even from countries like Bangladesh. This would lead to decline in exports from such countries to the US. Then these economies would start to slide too, leading to factory closures and unemployment on a large scale. There would be less money available for economic development activities. Adding to the woes of the US economy are the travails of European economies. There, countries like Greece and Portugal, which are heavily indebted, have already received a first round of bailout. But this is not working. A second bailout has been given to Greece. But these countries remain in deep economic trouble. Bigger economies like Spain and Italy are also on the verge of bankruptcy. More sound economies like France and Germany are unwilling to provide money through the European Central Bank to bail them out. A proposal to issue Euro bonds to be funded by all the countries of the Euro Zone has also not met with approval. A creeping fear of the leaders of such big economies is that their electorate is not likely to agree to fund bankruptcies in other countries through the taxes they pay. Inevitably, they are saying that these weaker economies must restrain expenditures and thereby check indebtedness and live within their means. Thus, with fresh international bailouts not in the horizon and with possibilities of a debt default by countries like Greece, there is a likelihood of a ripple going through the world's financial system. Now what is recession and especially one with a global dimension ? There is no commonly accepted definition of a recession or for that matter of a global recession. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) regards periods when global growth is less than 3% to be a global recession. During this period, global per capita output growth is zero or negative and unemployment and bankruptcies are on the rise. Recession within a country implies that there is a business cycle contraction. It occurs when "there is a widespread drop in spending following an adverse supply shock or the bursting of an economic bubble." The most common indicator is "two down quarters of GDP." That is, when GDP of a country does not increase for six months. When recession occurs there is a slowdown in economic activity. Overall consumption, investment, government spending and net exports fall. Economic drivers such as employment, household savings, corporate investments, interest rates are on the wane. Interestingly, recession can be of several types. Each type may be literally of distinctive shapes. Thus V-shaped, or a short and sharp contraction, is common. It is usually followed by a rapid and sustained recovery. A U-shaped slump is a prolonged recession. The W-shaped slowdown of the economy is a double dip recession. There is also an L-shaped recession when, in 8 out of 9 three-monthly quarters, the economy is spiraling downward. So what type of recession can the world expect in the next quarter? Experts say that it could be a W-shaped one, known as a double dip type. But let us try to understand why the world is likely to face another recession, when it has just emerged from the last one, the Great Recession in 2010. Do not forget that this recession had begun in 2007 with the "mortgage and the derivative" scandal when the real estate and property bubble burst. Today, many say that the last recession had never ended. Despite official data that shows recovery, it was only a modest recovery. So, when the recession hit the US in 2007 it was the Great Recession I. The US government fought it by stimulating their economy with large bailouts. But this time, for the Great Recession II, which we may be entering, there is a completely different response. Politicians are squabbling over how much to cut spending. Therefore, we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession.

Slow GDP rise means the economy is still struggling
Abram Brown, 8/29/12, “Higher Q2 GDP Estimate To 1.7% Not Enough To Ease Fears,” Forbes, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/abrambrown/2012/08/29/higher-q2-gdp-estimate-to-1-7-gives-market-only-a-small-lift/]] linja

The U.S. economy grew at a faster pace than originally thought in the second quarter, still an indication that the country’s momentum slowed. Gross domestic product expanded by 1.7%, greater than the original estimate of 1.5% growth, new Labor Department data shows. The increase in GDP was driven most by exports, but weakened by a fall in investments by U.S. businesses. “The revised GDP report shows weakness, which looks good only because it is quite a bit better than the lousy report which came a month before,” says FTN Financial economist Chris Low. Looking ahead, Low says, consumer spending will likely stay tepid. “On balance then, more so-so growth,” he says. The latest figures also showed that after-tax corporate profits unexpectedly rose by 1.1%. This comes after a large 8.6% drop in the first quarter, mainly the result of an expiring tax credit. The growth experienced in the second quarter is too little to significantly lower the unemployment rate and a steep drop from the expansion seen a quarter earlier. This additional snapshot of tepid U.S. growth is likely to play into the Federal Reserve’s consideration of further monetary stimulus. Some positive economic indicators—stronger retail spending and job hiring in July—seemed to ease speculation about additional stimulus. Yet, that the GDP figures and other data show low inflation and lackluster business spending supports new action. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will speak Friday, less than two weeks after minutes from the latest Federal Open Market Committee showed that the Fed came closer than ever to a new stimulus package during its July meeting. “We are already two months through the third quarter and more up-to-date figures show that the economy is still struggling,” says Paul Dales, Capital Economics senior U.S. economist.


It independently kills resiliency
Catherine Rampell, economics reporter for The New York Times; wrote for the Washington Post editorial pages and financial section, 08-07-2011, “Second Recession in U.S. Could Be Worse Than First”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/08/business/a-second-recession-could-be-much-worse-than-the-first.html?pagewanted=all

If the economy falls back into recession, as many economists are now warning, the bloodletting could be a lot more painful than the last time around. Given the tumult of the Great Recession, this may be hard to believe. But the economy is much weaker than it was at the outset of the last recession in December 2007, with most major measures of economic health — including jobs, incomes, output and industrial production — worse today than they were back then. And growth has been so weak that almost no ground has been recouped, even though a recovery technically started in June 2009. “It would be disastrous if we entered into a recession at this stage, given that we haven’t yet made up for the last recession,” said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist at RDQ Economics. When the last downturn hit, the credit bubble left Americans with lots of fat to cut, but a new one would force families to cut from the bone. Making things worse, policy makers used most of the economic tools at their disposal to combat the last recession, and have few options available. Anxiety and uncertainty have increased in the last few days after the decision by Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s credit rating and as Europe continues its desperate attempt to stem its debt crisis. President Obama acknowledged the challenge in his Saturday radio and Internet address, saying the country’s “urgent mission” now was to expand the economy and create jobs. And Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview on CNBC on Sunday that the United States had “a lot of work to do” because of its “long-term and unsustainable fiscal position.” But he added, “I have enormous confidence in the basic regenerative capacity of the American economy and the American people.” Still, the numbers are daunting. In the four years since the recession began, the civilian working-age population has grown by about 3 percent. If the economy were healthy, the number of jobs would have grown at least the same amount. Instead, the number of jobs has shrunk. Today the economy has 5 percent fewer jobs — or 6.8 million — than it had before the last recession began. The unemployment rate was 5 percent then, compared with 9.1 percent today. Even those Americans who are working are generally working less; the typical private sector worker has a shorter workweek today than four years ago. Employers shed all the extra work shifts and weak or extraneous employees that they could during the last recession. As shown by unusually strong productivity gains, companies are now squeezing as much work as they can from their newly “lean and mean” work forces. Should a recession return, it is not clear how many additional workers businesses could lay off and still manage to function. With fewer jobs and fewer hours logged, there is less income for households to spend, creating a huge obstacle for a consumer-driven economy. Adjusted for inflation, personal income is down 4 percent, not counting payments from the government for things like unemployment benefits. Income levels are low, and moving in the wrong direction: private wage and salary income actually fell in June, the last month for which data was available. Consumer spending, along with housing, usually drives a recovery. But with incomes so weak, spending is only barely where it was when the recession began. If the economy were healthy, total consumer spending would be higher because of population growth. And with construction nearly nonexistent and home prices down 24 percent since December 2007, the country does not have a buffer in housing to fall back on. Of all the major economic indicators, industrial production — as tracked by the Federal Reserve — is by far the worst off. The Fed’s index of this activity is nearly 8 percent below its level in December 2007. Likewise, and perhaps most worrisome, is the track record for the country’s overall output. According to newly revised data from the Commerce Department, the economy is smaller today than it was when the recession began, despite (or rather, because of) the feeble growth in the last couple of years. If the economy were healthy, it would be much bigger than it was four years ago. Economists refer to the difference between where the economy is and where it could be if it met its full potential as the “output gap.” Menzie Chinn, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin, has estimated that the economy was about 7 percent smaller than its potential at the beginning of this year. Unlike during the first downturn, there would be few policy remedies available if the economy were to revert back into recession. Interest rates cannot be pushed down further — they are already at zero. The Fed has already flooded the financial markets with money by buying billions in mortgage securities and Treasury bonds, and economists do not even agree on whether those purchases substantially helped the economy. So the Fed may not see much upside to going through another politically controversial round of buying. “There are only so many times the Fed can pull this same rabbit out of its hat,” said Torsten Slok, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Congress had some room — financially and politically — to engage in fiscal stimulus during the last recession. But at the end of 2007, the federal debt was 64.4 percent of the economy. Today, it is estimated at around 100 percent of gross domestic product, a share not seen since the aftermath of World War II, and there is little chance of lawmakers reaching consensus on additional stimulus that would increase the debt. “There is no approachable precedent, at least in the postwar era, for what happens when an economy with 9 percent unemployment falls back into recession,” said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. “The one precedent you might consider is 1937, when there was also a premature withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”

NIB transparency solves double dip
Will Marshall, president and founder of the Progressive Policy Institute (PPI); found the Democratic Leadership Council, serving as its first policy director; and Scott Thomasson, director of economic and domestic policy for the Progressive Policy Institute and manages PPI's Innovative Economy Project and E3 Initiative10-07-2011, “Sperling on “Deferred Maintenance”, [[http://progressivepolicy.org/sperling-on-%E2%80%9Cdeferred-maintenance%E2%80%9D]]

It’s hard to imagine a more myopic example of the right’s determination to impose premature austerity on our frail economy. From Lincoln to Teddy Roosevelt to Eisenhower, the Republicans were once a party dedicated to internal nation building. Today’s GOP is gripped by a raging anti-government fever which fails to draw elementary distinctions between consumption and investment, viewing all public spending as equally wasteful. But as the White House’s Gene Sperling said yesterday, Republicans can’t claim credit for fiscal discipline by blocking long overdue repairs of in the nation’s transport, energy and water systems. There’s nothing fiscally responsible about “deferring maintenance” on the U.S. economy. Sperling, chairman of the president’s National Economic Council, spoke at a PPI forum on Capitol Hill on “Infrastructure and Jobs: A Productive Foundation for Economic Growth.” Other featured speakers included Sen. Mark Warner, Rep. Rosa DeLauro, Dan DiMicco, CEO of Nucor Corporation, Daryl Dulaney, CEO of Siemens Industry and Ed Smith, CEO of Ullico Inc., a consortium of union pension funds. Fiscal prudence means foregoing consumption of things you’d like but could do without if you can’t afford them – a cable TV package, in Sperling’s example. But if a water pipe breaks in your home, deferring maintenance can only lead to greater damage and higher repair costs down the road. As speaker after speaker emphasized during yesterday’s forum, that’s precisely what’s happening to the U.S. economy. Thanks to a generation of underinvestment in roads, bridges, waterways, power grids, ports and railways, the United States faces a $2 trillion repair bill. Our inadequate, worn-out infrastructure costs us time and money, lowering the productivity of workers and firms, and discouraging capital investment in the U.S. economy. Deficient infrastructure, Dulaney noted, has forced Siemens to build its own rail spurs to get goods to market. That’s something smaller companies can’t afford to do. They will go to countries – like China, India and Brazil – that are investing heavily in building world-class infrastructure. As Nucor’s DiMicco noted, a large-scale U.S. infrastructure initiative would create lots of jobs while also abetting the revival of manufacturing in America. He urged the Obama administration to think bigger, noting that a $500 billion annual investment in infrastructure (much of the new money would come from private sources rather than government) could generate 15 million jobs. The enormous opportunities to deploy more private capital were echoed from financial leaders in New York, including Jane Garvey, the North American chairman of Meridiam Infrastructure, a private equity fund specializing in infrastructure investment. Garvey warned that what investors need from government programs is more transparent and consistent decision making, based on clear, merit-based criteria, and noted that an independent national infrastructure bank would be the best way to achieve this. Bryan Grote, former head of the Department of Transportation’s TIFIA financing program, which many describe as a forerunner of the bank approach, added that having a dedicated staff of experts in an independent bank is the key to achieving the more rational, predictable project selection that investors need to see to view any government program as a credible partner. Tom Osborne, the head of Americas Infrastructure at UBS Investment Bank, agreed that an independent infrastructure bank like the version proposed by Senators Kerry, Hutchison and Warner, would empower private investors to fund more projects. And contrary to arguments that a national bank would centralize more funding decisions in Washington, Osborne explained that states and local governments would also be more empowered by the bank to pursue new projects with flexible financing options, knowing that the bank will evaluate projects based on its economics, not on the politics of the next election cycle. Adding urgency to the infrastructure push was Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke’s warning this week that the recovery is “close to faltering.” Unlike short-term stimulus spending, money invested in modernizing infrastructure would create lasting jobs by expanding our economy’s productive base. Warning that America stands on the precipice of a “double dip” recession, Sperling said it would be “inexcusable” for Congress to fail to act on the president’s job plan. He cited estimates by independent economic experts that the plan would boost GDP growth in 2012 from 2.4 to 4.2 percent, and generate over three million more jobs.

Third is unemployment – it’s triggering a major economic crisis – outweighs the deficit
Laura Tyson, professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton, 08-18-2011, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]]

The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the jobs deficit, not the budget deficit. Nearly 14 million Americans are unemployed, another 8.4 million are working part time because they cannot find full-time jobs, and yet another 2.8 million want a job and are available to work but have given up an active search. At 64 percent, the labor force participation rate is lower than it has been in nearly three decades. The magnitude of this jobs crisis we’re in is best measured by the jobs gap—the number of jobs the U.S. economy needs to add in order to return to its pre 2008-2009 employment level and absorb new entrants to the work force since then. The jobs gap at the end of August was more than 12 million jobs. Even at double the rate of employment growth realized during the last year, it would take more than 12 years for the U.S. economy to close this gap. The U.S. labor market, long admired for its flexibility and strength, is badly broken. Most American jobs are in the private sector, and private sector jobs have in fact been growing for 17 consecutive months; indeed, the private sector added about 1.8 million nonfarm payroll jobs during the last year. This pace of job creation is faster than during the previous recovery in the early 2000s and in line with the recovery of the early 1990s. But there’s one major problem: Private-sector job losses were more than twice as large in the recent recession as in the previous two, and job growth has fallen far short of what is necessary to offset these losses. In addition, public-sector employment has been declining in this recovery—this in contrast to other postwar recovery periods, in which such employment has increased. We’ve lost 550,000 public-sector positions in the last year alone, making the jobs crisis even more severe. Since the private sector creates (and eliminates) most jobs in the United States, and since budget constraints will likely mean more painful cuts in public-sector employment for the foreseeable future, Americans are understandably looking to business for solutions to the jobs crisis. To uncover the business solutions that could work, however, we first must acknowledge the fundamental cause of the problem: the dramatic collapse in aggregate demand that began with the 2008 financial crisis and that triggered huge job losses. Even with unprecedented amounts of monetary and fiscal stimulus, the recovery has been weak because consumers have curbed their spending, increased their saving and started to reduce their personal debt. And they still have a long way to go. Business surveys confirm that for both large and small companies, the primary constraint on job growth is weak demand, not regulation or taxation. In the apt words of a small business owner, “If you don’t have the demand, you don’t hire the people.” So what can the business community do to boost demand and job creation? It can convince Congress to establish a National Infrastructure Bank and pass a multi-year surface transportation bill to boost infrastructure investment. And while it’s at it, business can work with the Obama administration to reduce multi-year delays in the approval of infrastructure projects that would otherwise create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the next few years. It can partner with the Obama administration to achieve the target of doubling exports, supporting 2 million additional jobs, within five years. Securing congressional passage of the three pending trade agreements, combined with meaningful trade adjustment assistance for workers displaced by trade, would be a major step toward this goal. It can work in partnership with federal, state and local governments to encourage the retrofitting of commercial buildings to improve their energy efficiency—a 20-percent improvement would save business about $40 billion a year on utility bills, money that could be used to hire and train workers. It can finance partnerships with colleges and universities to provide workers with the skills needed for the jobs that are currently available and for the jobs that are most likely to become available as the economy continues to recover. These include jobs that require high levels of science and technology skills, such as engineering jobs that are currently unfilled because of a national shortage of engineers, as well as jobs that require community college training in specialized areas like manufacturing, clean energy, tourism and health care. In his recent column for the Washington Post, Professor Michael Useem challenged business leaders to focus not just on what is required for the success of their own companies but on what is required for the success of the national economy. Members of the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, a private-sector advisory group in which I participate, , are responding to this challenge. Yet even with innovative ideas and commitment, the business community cannot boost aggregate demand by the amount needed to close the jobs gap. That requires appropriate macroeconomic policies. What should the federal government do? It should extend unemployment benefits and link them to training programs as many European countries do. It should extend the payroll tax cut for employees enacted at the end of 2010 and it should add a payroll tax cut for employers on new hires. Payroll tax relief should be maintained until the unemployment rate falls to 6 percent. The 10-year yield on U.S. Treasuries has fallen below 2.5 percent, the lowest it has been since the 1950s. There are numerous economically justifiable, demand-generating investments the U.S. government should make in infrastructure, research and education that would pay a higher rate of return and would create jobs now, while also laying the foundation for faster growth in the future. With nearly 25 percent of mortgages under water, a record number of foreclosures and historically low mortgage rates, the government should also explore new ways to make it possible for more households to refinance their mortgages. Refinancing could put tens of billions of dollars of spending power into the economy. Additional fiscal measures like these would boost demand and job creation. And yes, they would also add to the fiscal deficit. But the most important driver of the deficit in the short run is weak tax revenues, reflecting weak economic performance; and the most effective way to reduce the deficit in the next few years would be putting people back to work. Every one percentage point of growth adds about $2.5 trillion in government revenues. But even strong growth will not solve the long-run deficit problem. That will require a multi-year balanced plan of spending cuts and revenue increases. That’s why Congress should pair such a plan with temporary fiscal measures to boost job creation–and pass both as a package now. Approving a deficit-reduction plan now but deferring its starting date until the economy is near full employment would reduce the danger that premature fiscal contraction will tip the economy back into recession. It would also alleviate investor concerns about the creditworthiness of the U.S. government, concerns that have been aggravated by recent political brinkmanship over the debt limit and the resulting S&P downgrade. Unfortunately, the odds that the United States will get the fiscal policy it needs—a combination of countercyclical support now and balanced deficit reduction later—are low. And the odds that Congressional gridlock will increase uncertainty, undermine confidence and endanger the faltering recovery are high. These odds are not good for business, nor are they good for the millions of Americans who need a job.

The plan immediately boosts employment and growth
Fareed Zakaria, Indian-American journalist and author. From 2000 to 2010, he was a columnist for Newsweek and editor of Newsweek International. In 2010 he became editor-at-large of Time. He is the host of CNN's Fareed Zakaria GPS. He is also a frequent commentator and author about issues related to international relations, trade and American foreign policy, 06-13-2011, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank”, [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]]

President Obama has proposed a number of specific policies to tackle the jobs crisis, but they have gone nowhere because Republicans say that their top concern is the deficit and debt. Those of us worried about the debt - and I would strongly include myself - need to remember that if unemployment doesn't go down fast, the deficit is going to get much worse. If you're serious about deficit reduction, the single most important factor that will shrink it is to have more people working and paying taxes. I want to focus on one of Obama's proposals because it actually would add very little to the deficit, it has some Republican supporters and it would have an immediate effect on boosting employment and growth. Plus, it's good for the country anyway. We need a national infrastructure bank to repair and rebuild America's crumbling infrastructure. The House Majority Leader, Eric Cantor, has played down this proposal as just more stimulus, but if Republicans set aside ideology, they would actually see that this is an opportunity to push for two of their favorite ideas - privatization and the elimination of earmarks. That's why Republicans like Kay Bailey Hutchison and Chuck Hagel are strongly in favor of such a bank. The United States builds its infrastructure in a remarkably socialist manner. The government funds bills and operates almost all American infrastructure. Now, in many countries in Europe and Asia the private sector plays a much larger role in financing and operating roads, highways, railroads, airports and other public resources. An infrastructure bank would create a mechanism by which you could have private sector participation. Yes, there would be some public money involved, though mostly through issuing bonds. And with interest rates at historic lows, this is the time to use those low interest rates to borrow money and rebuild America's infrastructure. Such projects have huge long-term payoffs and can genuinely be thought of as investments, not expenditures. A national infrastructure bank would also address a legitimate complaint of the Tea Party - earmark spending. One of the reasons federal spending has been inefficient is that Congress wants to spread the money around in ways that might make political sense but are economic nonsense. An infrastructure bank would make those decisions using cost-benefit analysis in a meritocratic system rather than spreading the wealth around and basing these decisions on patronage, politics and whimsy. Let's face it, America's infrastructure is in a shambles. Just a decade ago, we ranked sixth in infrastructure in the world according to the World Economic Forum. Today we rank 23rd and dropping. We will not be able to compete with the nations of the world if we cannot fix this problem. Is it too much to ask that Republicans and Democrats find a way to come together on this? That moment of bipartisanship might actually be the biggest payoff of all.

Unemployment causes widespread suffering and death – that’s a systemic impact
Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-2012, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment

Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. One result is that older workers have seen the largest proportionate increase in unemployment in this downturn. The number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled. The prospects for the re-employment of older workers deteriorate sharply the longer they are unemployed. A worker between ages 50 and 61 who has been unemployed for 17 months has only about a 9 percent chance of finding a new job in the next three months. A worker who is 62 or older and in the same situation has only about a 6 percent chance. As unemployment increases in duration, these slim chances drop steadily. The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. Unemployment is almost always a traumatic event, especially for older workers. A paper by the economists Daniel Sullivan and Till von Wachter estimates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years immediately following a job loss, if they previously had been consistently employed. This higher mortality rate implies that a male worker displaced in midcareer can expect to live about one and a half years less than a worker who keeps his job. There are various reasons for this rise in mortality. One is suicide. A recent study found that a 10 percent increase in the unemployment rate (say from 8 to 8.8 percent) would increase the suicide rate for males by 1.47 percent. This is not a small effect. Assuming a link of that scale, the increase in unemployment would lead to an additional 128 suicides per month in the United States. The picture for the long-term unemployed is especially disturbing. The duration of unemployment is the dominant force in the relationship between joblessness and the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also associated with some serious illnesses, although the causal links are poorly understood. Studies have found strong links between unemployment and cancer, with unemployed men facing a 25 percent higher risk of dying of the disease. Similarly higher risks have been found for heart disease and psychiatric problems. The physical and psychological consequences of unemployment are significant enough to affect family members. The economists Kerwin Charles and Melvin Stephens recently found an 18 percent increase in the probability of divorce following a husband’s job loss and 13 percent after a wife’s. Unemployment of parents also has a negative impact on achievement of their children. In the long run, children whose fathers lose a job when they are kids have reduced earnings as adults — about 9 percent lower annually than children whose fathers do not experience unemployment. We all understand how the human costs can be so high. For many people, their very identity is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome, expert in transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, April–May 2011, “A Post-Secular World?,” Survival, vol. 53 no. 2, pp. 124, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf

Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

Global economic crisis causes war – strong statistical support proves
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent slates. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (19%) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (sec also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult lo replace items such as energy resources, [lie likelihood for conflict increases. as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because il triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends lo amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & I less. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Wccrapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a silting government. "Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blomberg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DcRoucn (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for countries to go to war
Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, 2011, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD", [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]

Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to substantial consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

Even if we don’t win increased growth – slow growth causes U.S. lashout
Avery Goldstein, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, August 2007, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence”, [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title%7Edb=all%7Econtent=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]], Volume[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title%7Edb=all%7Econtent=t713636064%7Etab=issueslist%7Ebranches=30#v30|30]], Issue [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title%7Edb=all%7Econtent=g780703608|4 & 5 ]] pages 639 – 682

Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, as economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, other states are empowered. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and challengers eventually emerge who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to theultima ratio of international politics, force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘hegemonic wars’, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve the order in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth(much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its acquisition of technology in key sectors that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate. Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the United States, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

Even small fluctuations in quality of transportation infrastructure has major impacts on the economy
Dr. Jean-Paul Rodriguez, Department of Global Studies and Geography at Hofstra University, and Dr. Theo Notteboom, is a professor at and the president of the Institute of Transport and Maritime Management Antwerp of the University of Antwerp, 2009, “The Geography of Transport Systems”, [[http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch7en/conc7en/ch7c1en.html]]

Contemporary trends have underlined that economic development has become less dependent on relations with the environment (resources) and more dependent on relations across space. While resources remain the foundation of economic activities, the commodification of the economy has been linked with higher levels of material flows of all kinds. Concomitantly, resources, capital and even labor have shown increasing levels of mobility. This is particularly the case for multinational firms that can benefit from transport improvements in two significant markets: Commodity market. Improvement in the efficiency with which firms have access to raw materials and parts as well as to their respective customers. Thus, transportation expands opportunities to acquire and sell a variety of commodities necessary for industrial and manufacturing systems. Labor market. Improvement in the access to labor and a reduction in access costs, mainly by improved commuting (local scale) or the use of lower cost labor (global scale). A common fallacy in assessing the importance and impact of transportation on the economy is to focus only on transportation costs, which tend to be relatively low (5 to 10% of the value of a good). Transportation is an economic factor of production of goods and services, implying that relatively small changes can have substantial impacts in on costs, locations and performance. An efficient transport system with modern infrastructures favors many economic changes, most of them positive. It provides market accessibility by linking producers and consumers. The major impacts of transport on economic processes can be categorized as follows: Geographic specialization. Improvements in transportation and communication favor a process of geographical specialization that increases productivity and spatial interactions. An economic entity tends to produce goods and services with the most appropriate combination of capital, labor, and raw materials. A given area will thus tend to specialize in the production of goods and services for which it has the greatest advantages (or the least disadvantages) compared to other areas as long as appropriate transport is available for trade. Through geographic specialization supported by efficient transportation, economic productivity is promoted. This process is known in economic theory as comparative advantages. Large scale production. An efficient transport system offering cost, time and reliability advantages permits goods to be transported over longer distances. This facilitates mass production through economies of scale because larger markets can be accessed. The concept of “just-in-time” has further expanded the productivity of production and distribution with benefits such as lower inventory levels and better responses to shifting market conditions. Thus, the more efficient transportation becomes, the larger the markets that can be serviced and the larger the scale of production. Increased competition. When transport is efficient, the potential market for a given product (or service) increases, and so does competition. A wider array of goods and services becomes available to consumers through competition which tends to reduce costs and promote quality and innovation. Globalization has clearly been associated with a competitive environment that spans the world. Increased land value. Land which is adjacent or serviced by good transport services generally has greater value due to the utility it confers to many activities. In some cases, the opposite can be true if related to residential activities. Land located near airports and highways, near noise and pollution sources, will thus suffer from corresponding diminishing land value. Transport also contributes to economic development through job creation and its derived economic activities. Accordingly, a large number of direct (freighters, managers, shippers) and indirect (insurance, finance, packaging, handling, travel agencies, transit operators) employment are associated with transport. Producers and consumers take economic decisions on products, markets, costs, location, prices which are themselves based on transport services, their availability, costs and capacity.

====**Contention 2 is Solvency**==== 

Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for the plan
Ryan McConaghy, Director of the Third Way Economic Program, and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, January 2011, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]]

America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

Deficits are inevitable but infrastructure financing now is feasible and provides short and long term growth
William L. Holahan, is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and Charles O. Kroncke, is associate dean in the University of South Florida College of Business, 06-13-2012, :On U.S. infrastructure, spend now, gain later”, [[http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/on-us-infrastructure-spend-now-gain-later/1234943]]

When the American Society of Civil Engineers issued a report card giving D and F grades for major infrastructure assets in the United States, the group estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion to rehabilitate them. Even though these public sector assets support the private sector of the economy, and despite the availability of cheap money, Congress has no current plans to remedy this situation. Its reluctance to support investment in infrastructure is unfortunate because this is an opportune time to earn a better report card; presently, we can borrow at very low interest rates to upgrade our streets, roads, bridges, railroads, school buildings, Internet bandwidth and K-12 education. We have earned the trust of foreign investors, who value the safety of our financial markets and seek to loan us money through their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds. In the short run, infrastructure investment would stimulate business growth and employ otherwise unemployed resources of labor and equipment. In the longer run, when these assets are in good working order, they would support faster growth of the economy, a prerequisite for bringing down the national debt and putting workers back on the path to higher after-tax incomes. What are we waiting for? Congressional inaction reflects the public concern over "runaway spending" and the rapid rise in the debt over the past 30 years, and especially the last five. Much of this concern rests on the falsely imagined equivalence of all government spending. But consumption spending and investment spending play very different roles in the economy, whether done by a firm, a family or the government. Our national debate should pivot from a narrow focus on debt alone to one that separates investment from consumption, that is, whether the borrowed money is spent in ways that repayment can be expected through increased future productivity. Carefully chosen infrastructure spending is an investment that pays for itself in greater economic growth; in fact, failure to make these investments can retard growth. Infrastructure investment spending is more likely to be accepted by struggling taxpayers than increased consumption spending on safety net programs such as food stamps or extended unemployment insurance, however dire the need for such programs may be. Seriously? More debt? How often have we heard that the size of our current national debt — some $15 trillion — prevents us from borrowing more money? Even with interest rates this low and opportunities so beneficial, the resistance to further borrowing is quite strong. The false and misleading claim is that we have already "mortgaged the future" and we "don't have the money." These slogans reflect a key concern: the ability to repay the debt. The usual measure of the ability to repay debt is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. Since infrastructure assets have very long lives, this measure should be calculated over a long time horizon. The public debt is projected to grow to $70 trillion over the next 75 years. If we experience 2 percent economic growth, national income over this period will total $2.46 quadrillion. The resulting ratio would be a mere 2.84 percent, demonstrating that as a nation, we are in a position to make cost-beneficial, growth-enhancing investments. Some additional arithmetic makes this point more forcefully. Suppose the infrastructure investments enable the economy to grow just one-tenth of one percent faster (2.1 percent versus 2.0 percent). Due to the power of compound interest, the added GDP over those 75 years is $116 trillion. Yes, the projected national debt is large, much larger than this year's GDP. But arithmetic also shows that failure to invest in growth will deny future generations the enormous gains available from even tiny improvements in economic growth rates.


=Negative= 
==Disads== 

===Fiscal Cliff=== 

Fiscal cliff deal is being made now to solve cuts but Obama’s involvement before the New Year is necessary to bring it together
NYTimes, 10-1-12, [“Leaders at Work on Plan to Avert Mandatory Cuts,” JONATHAN WEISMAN, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/us/senate-leaders-at-work-on-plan-to-avert-fiscal-cliff.html?hp&_r=1&&pagewanted=all]
WASHINGTON — Senate leaders are closing in on a path for dealing with the “fiscal cliff” facing the country in January, opting to try to use a postelection session of Congress to reach agreement on a comprehensive deficit reduction deal rather than a short-term solution. Senate Democrats and Republicans remain far apart on the details, and House Republicans continue to resist any discussion of tax increases. But lawmakers and aides say that a bipartisan group of senators is coalescing around an ambitious three-step process to avert a series of automatic tax increases and deep spending cuts. First, senators would come to an agreement on a deficit reduction target — likely to be around $4 trillion over 10 years — to be reached through revenue raised by an overhaul of the tax code, savings from changes to social programs like Medicare and Social Security, and cuts to federal programs. Once the framework is approved, lawmakers would vote on expedited instructions to relevant Congressional committees to draft the details over six months to a year. If those efforts failed, another plan would take effect, probably a close derivative of the proposal by President Obama’s fiscal commission led by Erskine B. Bowles, the Clinton White House chief of staff, and former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a Republican. Those recommendations included changes to Social Security, broad cuts in federal programs and actions that would lower tax rates over all but eliminate or pare enough deductions and credits to yield as much as $2 trillion in additional revenue. Finally, they would vote to put off the automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, and tax increases scheduled to hit all at once in January — but with some deficit reduction down payment to signal how serious Congress is. Mr. Obama has said he would not allow Congress to simply pass a new law to override the $1 trillion in automatic cuts agreed to in the Budget Control Act of 2011, but senators said they believed the White House would go along with a deal that locks in as much as four times those savings in exchange for canceling the automatic cuts. With both sides awaiting the outcome of the election, negotiators will not even try to determine how much money would come from the three components until after the voting, when, presumably, the victorious side would emerge with new leverage. “A lot of what happens and when it happens depends on the outcome of the election,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. House Republicans, favored to retain control regardless of the presidential and Senate results, have not been part of the Senate talks so far and could be difficult to sway to back a package with significant new revenue even if it wins bipartisan Senate support. Democratic leaders are already signaling a major stumbling block: they will accept no deal that extends Bush-era tax cuts for the rich, even for six months. “President Obama has clearly stated he will not extend the Bush tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, and I fully support his position,” Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said in a statement. “Americans are sick and tired of simply kicking the can down the road and avoiding our nation’s financial issues.” Other senators, like Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, have counseled a more incremental approach to head off mandatory deep military cuts next year. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat, had suggested finding enough savings for a six-month delay on taxes and cuts to give negotiators more time. But Mr. McConnell compared the government to a ship sinking under the weight of Medicare and Social Security and said that temporarily holding off the automatic budget cuts and tax increases would not avert a disaster. “Even if we rearrange the chairs, fix the tax thing, fix the sequester, the ship’s still going down,” he said in an interview. “I want to deal with it altogether. The next best opportunity is the end of the year.” With their party leaders’s encouragement, Senators Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, and Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, have begun talks on legislative language to lock a deficit reduction framework into law. And pressure for a deal continues to grow. On Monday, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center released a new study estimating that if nothing is done, the expiration of all the Bush-era tax cuts would raise taxes by more than $500 billion next year alone, an average increase of $3,500 per household. Middle-income families, it said, would see taxes rise by an average of almost $2,000. Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, said figures like those and forecasts anticipating a recession if nothing is done have prompted some consideration for postponing any tax increases or spending cuts for a year. But he said lawmakers want to lock in action on the deficit now. “You have to have the framework of a plan,” he said. “We need to find something that’s going to make us come to the table and put our fiscal house in order.” The two parties will have only weeks to reach an agreement between Election Day and Dec. 31, and they remain far apart on some fundamental issues besides tax cuts for the wealthy. House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio says he will not accept any deal that raises tax rates or “decouples” the Bush-era tax rates by extending some but allowing others to expire. Senators have also failed to agree on a mechanism to enforce a deficit reduction plan. Mr. Durbin has suggested that if Congress cannot agree on changes to the tax code, entitlements and spending in six months, the automatic spending cuts and tax increases should go into effect. But the bipartisan group of senators says that medicine has already proved too tough to swallow. Instead, the backstop should be an acceptable deficit reduction program like Simpson-Bowles. “The idea is to put in place an end product upfront that is already fairly agreeable,” said a Senate official familiar with the plans. “You’d basically be giving Congress six months to improve upon it.” After so many false starts, even those involved in the talks are reluctant to express much optimism. Mr. McConnell and other Republicans said only the president could make a deal happen. “I encourage all these discussions,” he said. “They’re all good. But we need the president, whoever that is, to not be a bystander like this president, to step up to the plate, and do three things: make the deal, deliver the members of his party and sign the bill.”

Transportation is controversial and requires political capital – Specifics, funding and partisanship – Distracts from current agenda items
Joan Lowy, reporter covering transportation issues for the Associated Press, 11-5-12, [“Missing from presidential race: roads, bridges,” Star Tribune, http://m.startribune.com/politics/?id=177259611] E. Liu
But as Superstorm Sandy reminded the world so vividly, we can't afford to do without them. So why isn't the nation's transportation infrastructure a hot topic? Money, for one. Neither President Barack Obama nor Mitt Romney has a good idea for how to pay for what needs to be done. Most of the transportation network was built in the last century; in some places, it dates to the 1800s. Aging highways, bridges, trains and buses are frequently in need of repair or replacement, and no longer can handle peak traffic demands. More than 140,000 bridges are structurally deficient or obsolete. The problem only will worsen as the U.S. population grows. The aviation system is struggling, too. A long-delayed program to modernize air traffic control and use satellite-based technology is projected to cost tens of billions of dollars. The current system is based on World War II-era radar technology. The annual number of airline passengers is forecast to rise from 730 million today to 1.2 billion in 2032, and the old system won't be able to keep up. The tab to keep the surface transportation system running is even greater. A congressional commission estimated that all levels of government are spending $138 billion a year less than is needed to maintain the current system and make modest improvements. Gas tax revenues that pay for federal transportation aid to states are declining because people are driving less and cars are more fuel efficient. Inflation also has taken a toll. The 18.4 cents-a-gallon federal tax hasn't been increased since 1993, and the federal Highway Trust Fund is projected to go broke in 2014. "Obama mentions roads and bridges every once in a while, which I suppose is better than not mentioning it, but no one is really having any significant policy discussion about it or how it fits into our national debate over the debt," said Joshua Schank, president of the Eno Center for Transportation, a think tank. If the candidates were to raise the issue, "it calls into question how you are going to pay for it, and there's a reluctance to talk about specifics," said Pete Ruane, president of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association. When Obama discusses transportation, it's usually in the context of pumping money into projects to generate jobs and boost the economy. Romney usually doesn't mention it unless he's answering a rare transportation question. During his first months in office, Obama persuaded Congress to pass an economic recovery bill that included $48 billion in highway and transit aid beyond normal federal spending, including $8 billion to jump-start a national high-speed rail program. But when House Democrats drafted a long-term transportation plan, the administration quietly asked them to shelve that proposal. Obama's focus was on health care and there was no extra money to go around, Democrats were told. The White House also was unwilling to spend political capital trying to raise the gas tax to pay for transportation improvements, knowing Republicans would label the president a tax raiser. The 2010 elections swept into the House dozens of tea-party Republicans determined to shrink the government, making it even less likely Congress would agree to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on a long-term transportation plan. Obama proposed a six-year, $476 billion transportation program this year; Congress ignored it. Administration officials said the program would be paid for through the "peace dividend" created by bringing troops home from Afghanistan and Iraq. But the wars were largely financed by borrowing, and phasing them out doesn't create a new pool of ready cash. Facing the prospect that the trust fund would run out of money and that highway aid would be cut off, Congress passed a two-year plan in June that uses money from increases in employers' pension insurance premiums and pension accounting changes to keep transportation programs going at current levels, plus increases for some programs to account for inflation, through the 2014 budget year. After that, the fund is once again forecast to go broke. Romney hasn't offered a transportation plan. When answering questions about the subject, he has said he favors more toll roads, including government and industry partnerships that generate private investment to pay for construction of new highways and bridges in exchange for the right to charge motorists for their use. Such partnerships are practical for a relatively few large-scale projects that can guarantee investors a steady income. "It's all well and good to say let's have private investment, but that's just another way of saying we don't want to talk about the money," Schank said. Romney has called for ending subsidies to Amtrak, the nation's passenger railroad network. Obama has supported Amtrak, and Vice President Joe Biden is one of the railroad's biggest fans. Historically, transportation has been one of the few issues to span the ideological divide between Democrats and Republicans. The only Democrat in President George W. Bush's Cabinet was Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta, a former California congressman. The only Republican currently in Obama's Cabinet is Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, a former Illinois congressman. But that bipartisan consensus has evaporated in recent years. House Republicans were unable to pass their own transportation bill this year — they ultimately accepted the Senate's version — largely because of division in their own ranks. Some GOP lawmakers wanted to continue the large federal role in transportation that began with construction of the interstate highway system in the 1950s. More conservative members wanted to turn transportation policy almost completely over to the states. On the Democratic side, environmentalists and smart-growth advocates have increased their influence on transportation policy. They want to use transportation aid to encourage denser housing close to mass transit that will encourage people to rely less on their cars. They argue that highway aid ought to be limited to repairing and improving existing roads and bridges rather than new construction. "There have always been differences in emphasis," said Rob Atkinson, who headed the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission set up by Congress. "But now we have starkly different visions of the federal role in surface transportation policy that we haven't had since the interstate highway system was built."

Fiscal cliff cuts crushes the global recovery and puts the US back into recession
Nasdaq, 11-1-12, [“Australia Treasurer: US 'Fiscal Cliff' Biggest Threat to Global Economic Recovery,” Robb M. Stewart, http://www.nasdaq.com/article/australia-treasurer-us-fiscal-cliff-biggest-threat-to-global-economic-recovery-20121101-00070#.UJkbxMXzfrM] E. Liu
MELBOURNE--The looming "fiscal cliff" in the U.S. poses the biggest threat to a nascent global economic recovery, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said Thursday, as he urged the eventual winner of this month's U.S. election to prioritize dealing with it. "The global economic consequences could be grave indeed if action is not taken after next week's election to address the looming fiscal cliff," Mr. Swan said in a speech at an economic conference in Melbourne. "Trillion dollar deficits are not sustainable and quantitative easing is not a long-term solution." A series of tax increases and spending cuts are mandated to begin next year unless Congress strikes a deal to avoid them, a situation that has become known as the "fiscal cliff" in the U.S. The independent Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the cliff, left unattended, could see the U.S. economy suffer an annualized contraction of 2.9% in the first half of next year and a jump in unemployment, which Mr. Swan said would drive the U.S. back into recession and "strike a savage blow" to the fragile global economic recovery.

Economic decline causes preemptive and escalatory nuclear war
Mathew Harris, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer Burrows, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, 09, [“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.
===Sprawl DA=== 

Urban sprawl has decreased now – Population growth and conensus
Karlenzig ’12 (Warren, April 10, president of Common Current, a global consultancy for urban sustainability planning, fellow of the Post Carbon Institute, Sustainable Cities Collective, “Census and Experts Confirm Death of Sprawl in US”,
[[http://sustainablecitiescollective.com/commoncurrent/38937/census-and-experts-confirm-death-sprawl-us]] DOA: 6/21/12 ARW)

The United States has reached an historic moment. The exurban development explosion that defined national growth during the past two decades has come to a screeching halt, according to the latest US Census figures. Only 1 of the 100 highest-growth US communities of 2006—all of them in sprawled areas—reported a significant population gain in 2011, prompting Yale economist Robert Shiller to predict suburbs overall may not see growth “during our lifetimes.” We are simultaneously witnessing the decline of the economic sectors enabled by hypergrowth development: strip malls and massive shopping centers, SUVs and McMansions. The end of exurban population growth has been accompanied by steep economic decline in real estate value, triggering a loss of spending not only in construction, but also home improvement (Home Depot, Best Buy) and numerous associated retail sectors that were banking on the long-term rising fortunes of “Boomburbs.” The fate of these communities has been so dire that for the first time in the United States suburbs now have greater poverty than cities. In 2009, I attributed the financial crash in these car-based communities to economic factors perpetrated by the higher gas prices that had first started showing impacts in late 2006 and peaked in 2008. Others including The Brookings Institution’s Christopher Leinberger, and William Frey, along with NRDC’s Kaid Benfield have pointed to longer term demographic shifts and societal desires toward renting in denser mixed-use neighborhoods. The looming specter of excess greenhouse gases may also be playing a role in the marked reduction of driving among younger Americans (16-39 year olds), who increasingly prefer to live where they can walk or bike to their local store, school or café. The “Death of Sprawl” chapter I wrote that was published by the Post Carbon Institute in 2009 (and in abridged form in the Post Carbon Reader in 2010) provided a case study on Victorville, California. Located 75 miles outside Los Angeles, Victorville’s rise and crash epitomized the hangover of the go-go sprawl era. During the financial system’s Derivative Daze, Victorville grew from 64,000 in 2000 to more than 108,000 by 2005: no-money-down-housing developments and “liar loans” fueled speculative investments that pumped up the desert city’s average home value to almost $350,000. The large numbers of workers that moved to Victorville had to commute long hours before dawn and after dark to get to work in Los Angeles, without the benefit of local public transit. There are still few options for those who wish to walk or bicycle to stores, jobs, schools or local amenities, and the average near 100 degree summer temperatures make such endeavors foolhardy. When gas prices began to go up in 2006, real estate sales in the region began to dry up as people ran for the exits. As the doors slammed shut, foreclosures in California’s Inland Empire (Victorville and other parts of California’s sprawling San Bernardino and Riverside counties), Las Vegas and Florida began to trigger a nationwide real estate meltdown. To stick with our illustration, Victorville houses plummeted from an average of nearly $350,000 in 2006 to $125,000 by late 2009. Likewise, new home permits in Victorville went from 7964 in 2004-06 down to 739 in 2008-10: a drop of more than tenfold! The average home sale now brings around $110,000, less than a third of 2005-2006 prices. Institutional investors and homebuyers alike have avoided for the past five years the nation’s scores of Victorvilles; the new data and pronouncements by experts such as Shiller, author of The S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, likely put the last nails in the coffin of speculative, auto-dependant sprawl.

High-speed rail increases suburb access and people still drive to train stations
Jason Kambitsis, senior planner for the City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning. His roles include project manager for DESIGNPGH, Pittsburgh’s first urban design comprehensive plan, member of the Pittsburgh Sustainability Commission, and overseeing the planning and development efforts for Pittsburgh neighborhoods, 3-16-10, [“High-Speed Rail As a Conduit of Sprawl,” Wired,
[[http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/03/high-speed-rail-and-sprawl/%20,|http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/03/high-speed-rail-and-sprawl/]]] E. Liu

It’s fast, it’s efficient and it is the future of transportation, but will high-speed rail cause sprawl? Yes, it could, warn some urban planners. Despite the promise of creating more densely populated urban centers, high-speed rail could do quite the opposite by making it easier for people to live far from urban centers. Let’s use California as an example, since high-speed rail has made the most progress there. The Golden State, long known as a trendsetter for transportation and environmental policy, has received more than $2.3 billion in stimulus funds toward a proposed line linking San Francisco and Los Angeles by way of the Central Valley. The money is earmarked for construction, land acquisition and engineering and it follows the $9.95 billion allocated by a state ballot initiative. If and when the line is completed by 2030, riders will zip between the two cities in 2 hours and 38 minutes and pay less than half what it would cost to fly. But that convenience could increase emigration from California’s urban centers to the exurbs and beyond. In other words, it could lead to more sprawl. An example of this can be seen in cities like Palmdale, which is 58 miles north of Los Angeles. By cutting the commute time between those two cities from 1 hour and 25 minutes, to 27 minutes, outward growth of the Los Angeles area will undoubtedly continue. It’s easy to see why — home prices in Palmdale are more than half of those in L.A., and high-speed rail could make getting downtown as quick and easy as living downtown. Pushing people further into the exurbs runs counter to a major goal of high-speed rail, namely cutting our carbon output while creating denser, more sustainable communities. Before this conversation goes any farther it should be said adopting high-speed rail is fundamental to the country’s economic vitality because it provides cost-effective transportation options that link major commerce centers. It is in many ways more beneficial than the continued use of automobiles as the primary means of moving people around. The time is now and the technology is here. That said, there are some potential flaws regarding where stations are built and how the rail infrastructure is integrated with communities that could lead to sprawl. The goal for high-speed rail in the United States, as in Europe — which, like Japan, is held as a model for HSR — is linking large cities. But the big difference between the European and American approach is Europeans have made a large investment in rail and the accompanying infrastructure that links it with stations and communities. The United States, on the other hand, has invested heavily in a highway system. The result is our land use patterns are quite different. In addition to making rail a priority, Europe has long supported public transit and multi-modal transportation infrastructure that supports bicycling, walking and other ways of getting around. It has all but taken the car out of the equation and solved the so-called “last mile” problem — addressing how people get from the transit stop to their final destination. Public transit options, along with dense, compact communities built around transit hubs (an approach called transit oriented development, or TOD) has created inherent convenience and in many cases eliminated dependence on cars. In the United States it is a completely different story. We rarely embrace TOD. This could be a problem with high-speed rail. Without a rapid transformation of our building patterns and a push to make existing communities denser, high-speed rail could be a conduit of sprawl, not a deterrent. If stations include vast parking lots, or they’re built in remote areas away from urban cores instead of being made a part of the community, it will all but guarantee people drive to the stations and create a system that is only accessible by car. Drivers already comfortable with a commute of an hour or more could move further away from urban centers, drive to a station and ride to work and still enjoy a shorter overall commute time. “HIgh-speed rail will simply add another layer of access to the far-flung suburbs/exurbs and Central Valley, resulting in more mass-produced subdivisions,” warns Robert Cervero, director of the University of California Transportation Center and author of Development Around Transit.

Development in suburban areas cause evolution and expansion of new diseases
Jonathan A. Patz, Professor & Director of Global Environmental Health at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, Department of Environmental Health Sciences, The Johns Hopkins University, et al., Peter Daszak, Gary M. Tabor, A. Alonso Aguirre, Mary Pearl, Jon Epstein, Nathan D. Wolfe, A. Marm Kilpatrick, Johannes Foufopoulos, David Molyneux, David J. Bradley, and Members of the Working Group on Land Use Change Disease Emergence, 7-04, [“Unhealthy Landscapes: Policy Recommendations on Land Use Change and Infectious Disease Emergence,” Environ Health Perspect. 2004 July; 112(10): 1092–1098,” [[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15238283|www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15238283]]] E. Liu

The importance of zoonotic diseases should be emphasized. Zoonotic pathogens are the most significant cause of EIDs affecting humans, both in the proportion of EIDs that they cause and in the impact that they have. Some 1,415 species of infectious organisms are known to be pathogenic to people, with 61% of them being zoonotic. Of the emerging pathogens, 75% are zoonotic, and zoonotic pathogens are twice as likely to be associated with emerging diseases than are nonzoonotic pathogens (Taylor et al. 2001). More important, zoonotic pathogens cause a series of EIDs with high case fatality rates and no reliable cure, vaccine, or therapy (e.g., Ebola virus disease, Nipah virus disease, and hantavirus pulmonary syndrome). Zoonotic pathogens also cause diseases that have some of the highest incidence rates globally [e.g., acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)]. AIDS is a special case, because it is caused by a pathogen that jumped host from nonhuman primates and then evolved into a new virus. Thus, it is in origin a zoonotic organism (Hahn et al. 2000). Because of the important role of zoonoses in current public health threats, wildlife and domestic animals play a key role in the process by providing a “zoonotic pool” from which previously unknown pathogens may emerge (Daszak et al. 2001). The influenza virus is an example, causing pandemics in humans after periodic exchange of genes among the viruses of wild and domestic birds, pigs, and humans. Fruit bats are involved in a high-profile group of EIDs that includes rabies and other lyssaviruses, Hendra virus and Menangle virus (Australia), and Nipah virus (Malaysia and Singapore), which has implications for further zoonotic disease emergence. A number of species are endemic to both remote oceanic islands and more populous suburban and rural human settlements; these may harbor enzootic and potentially zoonotic pathogens with an unknown potential for spillover (Daszak et al. 2000). Thus, some of the current major infectious threats to human health are EIDs and reemerging infectious diseases, with a particular emphasis on zoonotic pathogens transferring hosts from wildlife and domestic animals. A common, defining theme for most EIDs (of humans, wildlife, domestic animals, and plants) is that they are driven to emerge by anthropogenic changes to the environment. Because threats to wildlife habitat are so extensive and pervading, many of the currently important human EIDs (e.g., AIDS, Nipah virus disease) are driven partly by human-induced changes to wildlife habitat such as encroachment and deforestation. This is essentially a process of natural selection in which anthropogenic environmental changes perturb the host–parasite dynamic equilibrium, leading to the expansion of those strains suited to the new environmental conditions and facilitating expansion of others into new host species (Daszak et al. 2001).

Diseases cause extinction – New threats and adaptability block defenses
Arturo Casadevall, Professor and Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, New York, 2005 American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow, et al., Ferric C. Fang, Liise-anne Pirofski, 7-21-11, [“Microbial
Virulence as an Emergent Property: Consequences and Opportunities,” PLoS Pathogens,
[[http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.1002136]]] E. Liu

Although an existential threat from the microbial world might seem like science fiction, a catastrophic decline in amphibian populations with the extinction of dozens of species has been attributed to a chytrid fungus [1], [2], and North American bats are being decimated by Geomyces destructans, a new fungal pathogen [3]. Hence, individual microbes can cause the extinction of a species. In the foregoing instances, neither fungus had a known relationship with the threatened species; there was neither selection pressure for pathogen attenuation nor effective host defense. Humans are also constantly confronted by new microbial threats as witnessed by the appearance of HIV, SARS coronavirus, and the latest influenza pandemic. While some microbial threats seem to be frequently emerging or re-emerging, others seem to wane or attenuate with time, as exemplified by the decline of rheumatic heart disease [4], the evolution of syphilis from a fulminant to a chronic disease [5], and the disappearance of “English sweating sickness” [6]. A defining feature of infectious diseases is changeability, with change being a function of microbial, host, environmental, and societal changes that together translate into changes in the outcome of a host–microbe interaction. Given that species as varied as amphibians and bats can be threatened with extinction by microbes, the development of predictive tools for identifying microbial threats is both desirable and important.

===Elections – Mandates DA=== 

Polls show Obama has a stable lead now but dramatic events can swing it
LATimes, 8-12-12, [“Two election models, like recent polls, tilt toward Obama,” [[http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-two-election-models-obama-20120912,0,2273167.story]]] E. Liu

There are two competing temptations when looking at the boost in support for President Obama after the Democratic National Convention: to take the surge too seriously or not seriously enough. With eight weeks to go until the election, plenty of time remains for unforeseen events (a dramatic economic event, a candidate’s stumble, a terrorist attack or some other calamity) to change the dynamic. But a couple of statistical analyses suggest that the recent polling has some significant, if not conclusive, meaning. And the findings all accrue to Obama’s benefit. Politics Now cited a University of Colorado election model that several weeks ago projected a Mitt Romney win in the presidential election. But that model subsequently came in for a beating from analysts such as New York Times statistical whiz Nate Silver, who found “glaring problems” with the methodology used by the Colorado political scientists. Among other problems, the Colorado model put a huge weight on unemployment rates — but only with a Democrat sitting in the White House. Silver and others modeling the election, including the financial prognosticator NerdWallet.com, now find that Obama’s chances of reelection have surged to a high for the year. The Obama bounce has been solid, if not exactly breathtaking, and certainly nothing like what might be known as the “Lehman Bounce” in 2008. Four years ago, many Americans interpreted the bankruptcy of financial giant Lehman Bros. as a strong sign that the Republican Party should no longer be managing the nation’s economic affairs. Silver recalled in his blog Monday how, after the Lehman collapse, it was clear Republican John McCain would lose, “with Barack Obama’s projected probability of winning the Electoral College increasing by about 25 percent in a period of just 48 hours.” McCain never fully recovered. Silver’s model, factoring in the candidates’ chances of victory in key swing states, has put the likelihood of an Obama victory at 60% to 70% through much of the summer. But on Tuesday it set the chances of a second Obama term at a high of 79.8%. NerdWallet, a company that started analyzing credit card rates, extended its data analysis to fields such as education and politics. Joanna Pratt, who heads election analysis for the company, acknowledges that the political sideline was intended to bring more attention to the company’s core business. The company looks at polls, particularly in battleground states, and their historical performance in elections. In general, the company notes that polls become more predictive of final outcomes as election day approaches. (No huge surprise there.) On Tuesday, NerdWallet put Obama’s chance of reelection at 78.4% — just shy of the probability predicted by Silver. Of 12 states that analysts expect to be most closely contested, NerdWallet projects only two — Missouri and North Carolina — as most likely to go to Romney. Obama has more than a 50% chance of victory in 10 other battleground states: Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin. Among the possibilities that could cause the analysis to misfire, according to NerdWallet: “Dramatic events or substantial new information between now and the election....”

Transportation spending will give Obama a mandate victory – Job creation
Cooper, 1/25/2012 (Donna – Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress, Will Congress Block Infrastructure Spending?, Center for American Progress, p. [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/infrastructure_sotu.html]])

Just as America refocused its war resources on building our nation’s highway system after World War II, President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address included a courageous call for Congress to redirect half of the funds formerly claimed for the war in Iraq to rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. His strong pitch for putting Americans to work repairing our infrastructure is an essential element of the president’s strategy to help the middle class grow and prosper. At first glance it would appear that the president’s call to invest in infrastructure should enjoy wide bipartisan support. The leadership of both parties in Congress is on record as strong advocates for rebuilding the nation’s roads, bridges, rail, ports, and airports. On Fox News earlier this week, Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) said he wants the president to follow the recommendations of the White House Jobs and Competitiveness Council on increasing federal investments in infrastructure (look for the transcript on the speaker's blog). And Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) is on the record saying, “Everybody knows we have a crumbling infrastructure. Infrastructure spending is popular on both sides. The question is how much are we going to spend.” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) also strongly support President Obama’s infrastructure plans. But bipartisanship isn’t always what it seems, especially when it comes to infrastructure. In 2011 Republicans in the House and Senate unveiled a new strategy that linked new infrastructure investments with divisive environmental proposals. They know this linkage is unacceptable to the president, Senate Democrats, and most of the American public. Yet congressional Republicans are making this push so they can block movement to create jobs and rebuild our infrastructure while sounding like they are in favor of policies that do both. This is a serious claim, but the evidence is clear. In the past year, instead of rolling up their sleeves and drafting long-term highway and aviation spending bills, the House leadership cranked out a package of bills that include measures to weaken clean water and clean air protections and to restrict union organizing. They disingenuously called this a "jobs package." In spite of the compelling evidence that federal investments in infrastructure are an effective tool for creating jobs—the U.S. Department of Transportation 2007 estimates indicated that $1 billion in highway investments can create 27,800 jobs—this “jobs package” included the House-passed fiscal year 2012 budget bill that makes deep cuts in spending for highway and other surface transportation repairs. This package of bills willfully neglects the dire state of our aging infrastructure and the need to create more well-paying construction jobs. They haven’t stopped there. While ignoring the president’s very popular American Jobs Act, they’ve joined the all-out offensive campaign to push the environmentally dangerous Keystone pipeline project, claiming it as their solution to the jobs crisis. This project is more like a jobs pipedream. It’s already three years behind schedule and may never see the light of day due to broad-based U.S. opposition to building the pipeline, including from the Republican governor of Nebraska, who opposes the pipeline route through his state. None of this is news to the House Republicans. They are desperate to shift attention away from their failure to advance legislation to address our nation’s crumbling infrastructure because they are more concerned with blocking a jobs victory for President Obama that would help him win the 2012 presidential election. Emblematic of this strategy was the announcement in a November House leadership press conference where Speaker Boehner indicated that he intended to release a multiyear highway funding bill early in 2012 and fund it with revenues dependent on a massive expansion in oil-and-gas drilling offshore and on public lands, including in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. The only problem is that the House leadership knows that this drilling-dependent approach is likely to be dead on arrival in the Senate. Just this past May, 57 senators voted against a motion to proceed to consider the House bill to permit expanded offshore oil-and-gas drilling. If the House leadership were sincere about creating new construction jobs, then why not start by getting behind a bill that can pass both chambers so that private contractors can get to work repairing more of the 150,000 bridges that need it or the $52.3 billion in improvements needed at the nation’s airports? Instead we are now on the eighth temporary extension of a federal highway bill that expired in 2009 and now only runs through the end of March 2012. Then there’s the Federal Aviation Administration funding bill. Yesterday before the president’s State of the Union address, House Transportation Committee Chairman John Mica (R-FL) held a vote for the 23rd temporary extension of the legislation that will provide funding for our airport safety and construction only through the end of February 2012. These extensions enable the status-quo level of inadequate funding for infrastructure to limp along while our national assets crumble. The House Republicans have blocked the passage of a long-term aviation funding bill for the past two years, demanding that arcane and unfair union election rules be included in the bill. As of today a compromise among all parties takes the union issue off the table. But there are many more details to work out, including the level of funding and what is funded. Given the Republican track record on passing the legislation that is needed to rebuild our infrastructure, it is premature to consider this aviation funding bill a done deal. The House is not the only problem. Sen. Reid late in 2011 put the president’s American Jobs Act, which included $60 billion to repair our schools and fund a National Infrastructure Bank, to a vote, but Senate filibuster rules that require 60 favorable votes to put a bill on the floor for consideration made moving this infrastructure funding bill impossible. After failing to reach that 60-vote threshold, Sen. Reid said, “Republicans think that if the economy improves, it might help President Obama. So they root for the economy to fail and oppose every effort to improve it.” Indeed, Sen. McConnell blocked passage of the Senate version of the Jobs Act while lambasting the president for pointing it out and blasting the Senate Democrats for not working with the House Republicans to reach a compromise. But that statement begs the question of why McConnell isn’t working with his own party’s leadership in the House to make sure the Senate receives a bill that has a chance of a positive vote. The answer is clear: The Republican leadership is very concerned that responding to the American popular call for infrastructure investment will benefit President Obama politically—never mind the pain suffered by the American people and our future economic competitiveness by their failure to act. The president should not be deterred, however, by the roadblocks he faces in Congress. In his speech in Kansas this past December, he summoned the nation to redouble its commitment to an economy that lifts all boats. Echoing President Theodore Roosevelt’s progressive sentiments, he said: We simply cannot return to this brand of "you're on your own" economics if we're serious about rebuilding the middle class in this country. We know that it doesn't result in a strong economy. It results in an economy that invests too little in its people and in its future. We know it doesn't result in a prosperity that trickles down. It results in a prosperity that's enjoyed by fewer and fewer of our citizens.

A big Obama win causes sequestration and more defense cuts on top of that
We do not endorse ableist language
Loren Thompson, Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown. I have also taught at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, 1-27-12, [“Defense Plans Will Change, So Don't Bank on Obama Blueprint,” Forbes, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/lorenthompson/2012/01/27/defense-plans-will-change-so-dont-bank-on-obama-blueprint/print/]]] E. Liu

On Thursday, Pentagon leaders revealed the details of how they propose to implement President Obama’s new Asia-Pacific military posture. The administration has described the new posture as “a blueprint for the Joint Force in 2020,” so contractors and investors were eager to get the details on which programs would be cut or kept on track. A white paper that policymakers prepared to explain the changes reinforced the notion that the new priorities are part of a long-term plan, stating, “There is no room for modification if we are to preserve the force and capabilities that are needed… A change in one area inevitably requires offsetting requirements elsewhere, unbalancing the overall package.” If you take such assertions seriously, then you must not know much about the history of U.S. defense downturns. The Obama defense blueprint is a snapshot in time that will probably change radically within a few years. Let’s consider all the dynamic factors that stand in the way of implementing a long-term blueprint in America’s notoriously unpredictable political culture. First of all, none of the substantive changes the administration is proposing can actually be implemented without congressional approval. The House of Representatives is currently controlled by Republicans who don’t like the changes, and the Senate is likely to go Republican too in the next election (two-thirds of the Senate seats being contested this year are held by Democrats, and three-quarters of the senators who are retiring are Democrats). The notion that Congress will simply go along with a defense plan crafted by this White House is fantastic on its face given partisan polarization on every issue in Washington. Second, the President is up for reelection in November, and his job approval in public-opinion surveys has been below 50 percent for a long time. Despite the propensity of Republican primary candidates to alienate every political constituency that isn’t white or wealthy, there’s a real possibility that Mr. Obama and his defense priorities will be gone a year from now. Even if Obama manages to eke out an election victory, he won’t have much in the way of coattails to help put his co-partisans in control of the Congress, so we may be looking at two to four more years of political paralysis in Washington — a poor setting for carrying out long-term plans on anything. Third, a fiscal sword of Damocles is currently hanging over the defense sector in the form of a Budget Control Act mandate to cut $600 billion more out of military spending. That’s on top of the $487 billion that already must be cut from the President’s ten-year defense plan. Additional cuts of that magnitude would force wholesale revisions in the president’s blueprint. Military leaders have embraced the sanguine assumption that the political system will somehow avert a second wave of cuts because it would be so destructive, but as of today the law says the cuts begin next January. A stalemated post-election political system might not be able to amend the law, and the president is insisting that he would veto any legislative effort to do so that failed to provide $1.2 trillion in budget savings the law was crafted to generate. Fourth, if the system is not still paralyzed a year from now, that will probably be because one party has swept the elections. If it’s the Republicans, then the specter of big defense cuts will disappear. Research conducted by Ron Epstein of Merrill Lynch Bank of America has found that Republican control of the White House and Senate has been the single strongest predictor of rising weapons outlays over the past 50 years (Epstein says political control is a more reliable indicator than threats). If it’s the Democrats, then $600 billion in additional defense cuts could be just the beginning as they seek to generate a big “peace dividend” to fund domestic initiatives. Either way, the defense plan would change.

Sequestration and military cuts cause multiple nuclear conflicts and prolif
The Foreign Policy Initiative, Board of Directors consists of Eric Edelman, former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, former U.S. Ambassador to Turkey (2003–2005), former U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Finland (1998–2001), and former Principal Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for National Security Affairs, Robert Kagan, William Kristol, and Dan Seno, et al., American Enterprise Institute, and The Heritage Foundation, 11-17-11, [“Defending Defense Defense Spending, the Super Committee, and the Price of Greatness,” [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/defending-defense-setting-the-record-straight-on-us-military-spending-requirements]]] E. Liu

In turn, Panetta said that sequestration cuts would raise dangerous risks and uncertainties to America’s national security. In particular, sequestration:  “Undermine[s] our ability to meet our national security objectives and require[s] a significant revision to our defense strategy.”  “Generate[s] significant operational risks; delays response times to crises, conflicts, and disasters; severely limits our ability to be forward deployed and engaged around the world; and assumes unacceptable risk in future combat operations.”  “Severely reduce[s] force training—[and] threatens overall operational readiness. In October 2011, the House Armed Services Committee released a study of the impact of defense cuts that reached comparable conclusions. Amid macroeconomic uncertainty, however, Americans continue to oppose further cuts to the Pentagon. According to a November 2011 Politico-George Washington University Battleground Poll, 82 percent of 7 respondents either strongly opposed or somewhat opposed the Super Committee “cutting spending on defense programs, including programs for soldiers and veterans” to meet its deficit-reduction goal. The financial impact of deep cuts to the Defense Department will be alarming under any sequestration scenario. More alarming, however, is what more defense cuts could mean for the future of America’s national security and longstanding role in preserving global stability. Myth #3: Deep cuts in defense spending won’t impact U.S. global leadership. FACT: In order to maintain global leadership, the United States must make commensurate investments in defense of its national security and international interests. From the Cold War to the post-9/11 world, U.S. spending on national defense has yielded substantial strategic returns by:  protecting the security and prosperity of the United States and its allies;  amplifying America’s diplomatic and economic leadership throughout the globe;  preventing the outbreak of the world wars that marked the early 20th century; and  preserving the delicate international order in the face of aggressive, illiberal threats. No doubt, the United States has invested non-trivial amounts on national defense to help achieve these strategic objectives. But when viewed in historical perspective, the proportion of America’s annual economic output dedicated to the Defense Department from 1947 to today has been reasonable and acceptable— indeed, a fraction of what it dedicated during World War II. Figure 4 illustrates this. Moreover, in light of the various rounds of recent cuts to the Pentagon’s multi-year budget, defense spending as percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) is on track to reach its lowest point since end of World War II. Yet defense cuts in recent years have come despite the fact that the United States is facing new threats in the 21st century to its national security and international interests. As Robert Kagan of the Brookings Institution summarized in The Weekly Standard: The War on Terror: “The terrorists who would like to kill Americans on U.S. soil constantly search for safe havens from which to plan and carry out their attacks. American military actions in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen, and elsewhere make it harder for them to strike and are a large part of the reason why for almost a decade there has been no repetition of September 11. To the degree that we limit our ability to deny them safe haven, we increase the chances they will succeed” (emphasis added). The Asia Pacific: “American forces deployed in East Asia and the Western Pacific have for decades prevented the outbreak of major war, provided stability, and kept open international trading routes, making possible an unprecedented era of growth and prosperity for Asians and Americans alike. Now the United States faces a new challenge and potential threat from a rising China which seeks eventually to push the U.S. military’s area of operations back to Hawaii and exercise hegemony over the world’s most rapidly growing economies. Meanwhile, a nuclear-armed North Korea threatens war with South Korea and fires ballistic missiles over Japan that will someday be capable of reaching the west coast of the United States. Democratic nations in the region, worried that the United States may be losing influence, turn to Washington for reassurance that the U.S. security guarantee remains firm. If the United States cannot provide that assurance because it is cutting back its military capabilities, they will have to choose between accepting Chinese dominance and striking out on their own, possibly by building nuclear weapons” (emphasis added). The Middle East: “… Iran seeks to build its own nuclear arsenal, supports armed radical Islamic groups in Lebanon and Palestine, and has linked up with anti-American dictatorships in the Western Hemisphere. The prospects of new instability in the region grow every day as a decrepit regime in Egypt clings to power, crushes all moderate opposition, and drives the Muslim Brotherhood into the streets. A nuclear-armed Pakistan seems to be ever on the brink of collapse into anarchy and radicalism. Turkey, once an ally, now seems bent on an increasingly anti-American Islamist course. The prospect of war between Hezbollah and Israel grows, and with it the possibility of war between Israel and Syria and possibly Iran. There, too, nations in the region increasingly look to Washington for reassurance, and if they decide the United States cannot be relied upon they will have to decide whether to succumb to Iranian influence or build their own nuclear weapons to resist it” (emphasis added). Meeting these threats will require the United States to remain engaged diplomatically and militarily throughout the globe. And that will require continued investment in national defense. However, further cuts to Pentagon spending—especially the “devastating” sequestration cut if the Super Com mittee effort fails—will fundamentally undermine America’s strategy to defend its national security and international interests. In Secretary Panetta’s words, “we would have to formulate a new security strategy that accepted substantial risk of not meeting our defense needs.” Conclusion: Defense spending and the price of greatness. Some today find it tempting to slash investments in America’s national security and international interests, especially given current efforts to reduce the federal debt and deficit. But as this analysis has argued, however, defense spending—which has already faced nearly $1 trillion in cuts, arguably more—has done its part for deficit reduction. Moreover, further cuts to defense spending risks fundamentally eroding America’s standing and leadership role in the world.

===Elections – Iran Strikes Good=== 

Obama is losing in essential swing states now due to coal – Neutralizing that DA is key
Jim Ellis, professional election analyst who has worked in national campaign politics and grassroots issue advocacy since 1978, 9-10-12, [“Coal: Obama's Kryptonite,” American Thinker, http://www.americanthinker.com/2012/09/coal_obamas_kryptonite.html] E. Liu

In a presidential election that appears headed for a photo finish, it may be coal that transforms itself into political black gold for Republican nominee Mitt Romney and into kryptonite for President Barack Obama. While the president's economic policies have devastated several industries, it is the coal producers who are strategically located and have the opportunity and ability to become a real force in this campaign. The main reason behind the mineral's potential election-determining power is that most of the coal-producing voters reside in traditionally Democratic counties and precincts. Ohio and Virginia, and possibly Pennsylvania, are potentially so electorally close that either candidate losing a significant share of his own party's vote could cost him that particular state and thereby the White House itself. Therefore, the fundamental unanswered question is whether President Obama can neutralize some of his past actions in the critical energy-producing states. This becomes especially difficult when fully comprehending that Obama's Cap & Trade legislation has already proven itself politically lethal to Democrats. We all know that Ohio, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, places that lie in a major domestic coal-producing region, are part of the group of swing states that will determine who occupies the White House after the November 6 election.

Transportation spending will win Obama the election --- perceived as a job creator.
Cooper, 1/25/2012 (Donna – Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress, Will Congress Block Infrastructure Spending?, Center for American Progress, p. [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/infrastructure_sotu.html]])

Just as America refocused its war resources on building our nation’s highway system after World War II, President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address included a courageous call for Congress to redirect half of the funds formerly claimed for the war in Iraq to rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. His strong pitch for putting Americans to work repairing our infrastructure is an essential element of the president’s strategy to help the middle class grow and prosper. At first glance it would appear that the president’s call to invest in infrastructure should enjoy wide bipartisan support. The leadership of both parties in Congress is on record as strong advocates for rebuilding the nation’s roads, bridges, rail, ports, and airports. On Fox News earlier this week, Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) said he wants the president to follow the recommendations of the White House Jobs and Competitiveness Council on increasing federal investments in infrastructure (look for the transcript on the speaker's blog). And Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) is on the record saying, “Everybody knows we have a crumbling infrastructure. Infrastructure spending is popular on both sides. The question is how much are we going to spend.” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) also strongly support President Obama’s infrastructure plans. But bipartisanship isn’t always what it seems, especially when it comes to infrastructure. In 2011 Republicans in the House and Senate unveiled a new strategy that linked new infrastructure investments with divisive environmental proposals. They know this linkage is unacceptable to the president, Senate Democrats, and most of the American public. Yet congressional Republicans are making this push so they can block movement to create jobs and rebuild our infrastructure while sounding like they are in favor of policies that do both. This is a serious claim, but the evidence is clear. In the past year, instead of rolling up their sleeves and drafting long-term highway and aviation spending bills, the House leadership cranked out a package of bills that include measures to weaken clean water and clean air protections and to restrict union organizing. They disingenuously called this a "jobs package." In spite of the compelling evidence that federal investments in infrastructure are an effective tool for creating jobs—the U.S. Department of Transportation 2007 estimates indicated that $1 billion in highway investments can create 27,800 jobs—this “jobs package” included the House-passed fiscal year 2012 budget bill that makes deep cuts in spending for highway and other surface transportation repairs. This package of bills willfully neglects the dire state of our aging infrastructure and the need to create more well-paying construction jobs. They haven’t stopped there. While ignoring the president’s very popular American Jobs Act, they’ve joined the all-out offensive campaign to push the environmentally dangerous Keystone pipeline project, claiming it as their solution to the jobs crisis. This project is more like a jobs pipedream. It’s already three years behind schedule and may never see the light of day due to broad-based U.S. opposition to building the pipeline, including from the Republican governor of Nebraska, who opposes the pipeline route through his state. None of this is news to the House Republicans. They are desperate to shift attention away from their failure to advance legislation to address our nation’s crumbling infrastructure because they are more concerned with blocking a jobs victory for President Obama that would help him win the 2012 presidential election. Emblematic of this strategy was the announcement in a November House leadership press conference where Speaker Boehner indicated that he intended to release a multiyear highway funding bill early in 2012 and fund it with revenues dependent on a massive expansion in oil-and-gas drilling offshore and on public lands, including in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. The only problem is that the House leadership knows that this drilling-dependent approach is likely to be dead on arrival in the Senate. Just this past May, 57 senators voted against a motion to proceed to consider the House bill to permit expanded offshore oil-and-gas drilling. If the House leadership were sincere about creating new construction jobs, then why not start by getting behind a bill that can pass both chambers so that private contractors can get to work repairing more of the 150,000 bridges that need it or the $52.3 billion in improvements needed at the nation’s airports? Instead we are now on the eighth temporary extension of a federal highway bill that expired in 2009 and now only runs through the end of March 2012. Then there’s the Federal Aviation Administration funding bill. Yesterday before the president’s State of the Union address, House Transportation Committee Chairman John Mica (R-FL) held a vote for the 23rd temporary extension of the legislation that will provide funding for our airport safety and construction only through the end of February 2012. These extensions enable the status-quo level of inadequate funding for infrastructure to limp along while our national assets crumble. The House Republicans have blocked the passage of a long-term aviation funding bill for the past two years, demanding that arcane and unfair union election rules be included in the bill. As of today a compromise among all parties takes the union issue off the table. But there are many more details to work out, including the level of funding and what is funded. Given the Republican track record on passing the legislation that is needed to rebuild our infrastructure, it is premature to consider this aviation funding bill a done deal. The House is not the only problem. Sen. Reid late in 2011 put the president’s American Jobs Act, which included $60 billion to repair our schools and fund a National Infrastructure Bank, to a vote, but Senate filibuster rules that require 60 favorable votes to put a bill on the floor for consideration made moving this infrastructure funding bill impossible. After failing to reach that 60-vote threshold, Sen. Reid said, “Republicans think that if the economy improves, it might help President Obama. So they root for the economy to fail and oppose every effort to improve it.” Indeed, Sen. McConnell blocked passage of the Senate version of the Jobs Act while lambasting the president for pointing it out and blasting the Senate Democrats for not working with the House Republicans to reach a compromise. But that statement begs the question of why McConnell isn’t working with his own party’s leadership in the House to make sure the Senate receives a bill that has a chance of a positive vote. The answer is clear: The Republican leadership is very concerned that responding to the American popular call for infrastructure investment will benefit President Obama politically—never mind the pain suffered by the American people and our future economic competitiveness by their failure to act. The president should not be deterred, however, by the roadblocks he faces in Congress. In his speech in Kansas this past December, he summoned the nation to redouble its commitment to an economy that lifts all boats. Echoing President Theodore Roosevelt’s progressive sentiments, he said: We simply cannot return to this brand of "you're on your own" economics if we're serious about rebuilding the middle class in this country. We know that it doesn't result in a strong economy. It results in an economy that invests too little in its people and in its future. We know it doesn't result in a prosperity that trickles down. It results in a prosperity that's enjoyed by fewer and fewer of our citizens.

Obama will strike Iran if he’s losing – Causes his victory, checks Iran and prevents Israel strikes that fail and cause multiple scenarios for conflict
Chemi Shalev, an Israeli journalist and political analyst. Chemi Shalev is a US foreign correspondent for Haaretz newspaper 12-27-11 [[http://www.haaretz.com/blogs/west-of-eden/will-a-u-s-attack-on-iran-become-obama-s-october-surprise-1.403898]]

Will a U.S. attack on Iran become Obama’s ‘October Surprise’? Israelis and many Americans are convinced that President Obama will ultimately back away from attacking Iran. They may be wrong. 1. “When American officials declare that all options are on the table, most Israelis do not believe them. They have concluded, rather, that when the crunch comes (and everyone thinks it will), the United States will shy away from military force and reconfigure its policy to live with a nuclear-armed Iran.” This was the bottom line of “What Israelis Hear When Obama Officials Talk About Iran”, an article written by William Galston, a senior research fellow at Brookings, after he canvassed the Israeli participants in the recent Saban Forum held in Washington in early December. Since that diagnosis, rendered only three weeks ago, the content, tone and intensity of American pronouncements on Iran have undergone progressively dramatic changes. These include: • December 16: President Obama, in a speech before the Union of Reform Judaism, goes from the passive “a nuclear Iran is unacceptable” to the assertive “We are determined to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.” • December 19: Secretary of Defense Panetta, hitherto the main articulator of the pitfalls of an attack on Iran, suddenly ups the ante by declaring that Iran might be only a year away from acquiring a nuclear bomb, that this the “red line” as far as the U.S. is concerned, and that Washington “will take whatever steps necessary to deal with it." • December 20: General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, tells CNN that “the options we are developing are evolving to a point that they would be executable, if necessary”, adding: 'My biggest worry is that they (Iranians) will miscalculate our resolve'. • December 21: Dennis Ross tells Israel’s Channel 10 television that President Obama would be prepared to “take a certain step” if that is what is required and “this means that when all options are on the table and if you’ve exhausted all other means, you do what is necessary". • December 22: Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak, commenting on the above statements, says that they "make clear a fact that was already known to us from closed-door (discussions). It makes clear to Iran that it faces a real dilemma." • December 23: Matthew Kroenig, former Special Adviser on Iran at the Pentagon, publishes an article in the prestigious Foreign Affairs, entitled “Time to Attack Iran”, in which he lays out the case for an American offensive against Iran – sooner rather than later. Israeli analysts, however, remain unconvinced. Influenced, perhaps, by their own experience with Israel’s cynical political leadership, they have ascribed much of this newly-found oomph in American utterances to an elections-inspired attempt by the Obama Administration to “show support for Israel” at a time of political need. Conversely, they maintain that the change in the American tone is a result of new intelligence information that was presented by Barak to Obama in their December 16 meeting in Washington. Both of these assessments may or may not be true, but they fail to tell the whole story. The timing of the reinvigorated American rhetoric is undoubtedly tied to the December 18 withdrawal of the last American troops from Iraq. The U.S. Army and the Pentagon have long opposed inflammatory rhetoric toward Tehran during the withdrawal, for fear it might endanger U.S. troops in Iraq. With the withdrawal complete, the Administration felt free to adopt a much more belligerent tone, literally overnight. As to the substance of American policy, Israelis appear to have persuaded themselves that, despite his vigorous prosecution of the war in Afghanistan and his successful and deadly pursuit of al-Qaida, Obama remains “soft” on Iran and will ultimately back down when push comes to shove. This perception has been fed by Obama’s ill-fated attempt to “engage” with Iran, his initial courtship of the Arab and Muslim world, what is widely perceived as his pro-Palestinian tendencies – and the overall animosity and prejudice directed at the president by many of his detractors. The Republicans are so convinced, in fact, that they are basing much of their foreign policy campaign against Obama on the assumption that he will ultimately capitulate to Tehran. That may be a dangerous assumption on their part. In his speech at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in December 2009 – possibly forgotten because of the ridiculously premature or spectacularly misdirected awarding of the prize - Obama spoke of a "just war" which can be waged “as a last resort or in self-defense”. After warning of the danger posed by Iran’s nuclear campaign, he said “those who seek peace cannot stand idly by as nations arm themselves for nuclear war.” In the days after that speech in Oslo, Christian theologian Reinhold Niebuhr was often cited as a source of inspiration for Obama, and it was Niebuhr who wrote, “contemporary history refutes the idea that nations are drawn into war too precipitately. It proves, on the contrary, that it is the general inclination of democratic nations at least to hesitate so long before taking this fateful plunge that the dictator nations gain a fateful advantage over them.” Obama may not want to fall into that pattern. People believe what they want to believe, but Obama has already proven - in Afghanistan, in Libya, in the offensive against al-Qaida, in the drone war in Somalia, Pakistan and Yemen – that he is no pacifist and does not shy way from using military force when necessary. And while he has stuck to his prepared script that “all options are on the table," people who have heard Obama speak about Iran in closed sessions have no doubt that if all else fails, including “crippling” sanctions and international isolation, Obama would order a U.S. attack on Iran, if he was convinced, as he appears to be, that it posed a clear and present danger to America’s national security. 2. And there can be no doubt - notwithstanding claims by the radical left and the isolationist right - that a nuclear Iran would be an unmitigated disaster for American interests, above and beyond the existential threat to Israel. Arab countries would be confronted by a stark choice between subservience to Tehran and the dangerous pursuit of their own nuclear prowess; Muslim extremism would flourish at a particularly precarious juncture in Arab history, compelling newly-emergent Muslim parties, especially in Egypt, to opt for extreme belligerence toward America and Israel; under a protective nuclear umbrella, Hamas and Hezbollah and others of their ilk would be able to run amok with impunity; the entire Middle East would be destabilized and America’s oil supplies held hostage by a self-confident and bellicose Iran. The standing of the U.S., after it is inevitably perceived as having lost out to the Ayatollahs, would reach an all-time low. Russia and China would gradually become the dominant powers in the region. Tehran would be free to expand and further develop its nuclear arsenal and ballistic missile capability. And Israel, America’s main ally in the region – perhaps in the world – would face a continuous mortal and ultimately paralyzing threat from an increasingly implacable enemy. Given their doubts about Obama’s resolve to order a U.S. military attack, Israeli analysts have tended to focus on the existence, or lack thereof, of an American “green light” for an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear facilities. Indeed, one of the arguments made by Kroenig in Foreign Affairs is that a U.S. attack “can also head off a possible Israeli operation against Iran, which, given Israel’s limited capability to mitigate a potential battle and inflict lasting damage, would likely result in far more devastating consequences and carry a far lower probability of success than a U.S. attack.” But it is far from clear whether America’s acknowledged operational and logistical advantage is the most compelling argument against an Israeli attack, and whether Israel is indeed incapable of “inflicting lasting damage” on Iran. After years and years of preparation, and with the wily Barak at the helm, one should “expect the unexpected” from an Israeli attack. It would definitely not be a rerun of the 1981 bombing raid on Iraq’s nuclear reactor at Osirak, not in scope, not in intensity, not in the means of delivery and not in the yield and sophistication of the weapons that will be thrown into battle. But there are other profound drawbacks to an Israeli attack and corresponding advantages to an American offensive. An Israeli attack would rally the Arab and Muslim world behind Iran, strengthen radical Islamists, neutralize potentially sympathetic countries as Saudi Arabia and further distance Turkey from Israel and the West. The U.S. would have no choice but to support Israel, even though such support would inflame animosity toward Washington throughout the Muslim world. An American attack, on the other hand, would restore Washington’s stature and power of deterrence in the Arab world, could unite most of the Sunni monarchies and oil Sheikdoms in tacit assistance, at the very least, for the military effort, could facilitate Turkish neutrality and enable European support, and would sideline the incendiary issue of Israel, just as it did when Jerusalem maintained a “low profile” during the first two Gulf wars. It might also decrease the intensity of a combined Iranian-Hamas-Hezbollah and possibly Syrian counterattack against Israel, and would, in any case, free Israel to defend itself and to effectively deal with such an onslaught. And yes, though hardly devoid of risks, it might very well ensure Barack Obama’s reelection next November. 3. To be sure, despite Republican protestations to the contrary, American voters are ambivalent about a U.S. attack on Iran. In a recent Quinnipiac University Survey, 55 per cent of voters said the U.S. should not take military action against Iran – but 50 per cent would nonetheless support it, if all else fails. And 88 per cent believe that a nuclear Iran posed a serious threat or a somewhat serious threat to American national security. In the end, it would all come down to timing. The closer to elections that an American attack on Iran would take place, the more it would work in Obama’s favor. Though his left wing flank and possibly large chunks of the Democratic Party would not differentiate between Iraq and Iran, would draw historic parallels with the Bush Administration’s bogus evidence of Iraq’s WMD capabilities and would vehemently criticize Obama for “betraying his principles” - Obama would probably sway most independents and even moderate Republicans who would be swept up in the initial, patriotic wave of support for a campaign against a country that the Republican candidates for the presidency have described as America’s number one enemy. And Obama could point out to the American public that contrary to Iraq, no ground troops would be involved in Iran. A significantly earlier attack, however, would be far riskier. The initial patriotic fervor might dissipate and the wider ramifications would begin to sink in, including potential Iranian retaliation against American targets, and, perhaps more significantly, the disruption of oil supplies, an unprecedented spike in oil prices and an ensuing and crippling blow to U.S. economic recovery. If one wants to be absolutely cynical, perhaps Panetta’s one-year deadline was intentionally calibrated with this election timeline. Though there is no basis to suspect Obama of making political calculations, and without detracting from what is sure to be a serious American effort to get sanctions and possibly regime change to do the trick – October would be ideal. That’s the month that Henry Kissinger chose in 1972 to prematurely declare that “peace is at hand” in Vietnam, thus turning Richard Nixon’s certain victory over George McGovern into a landslide; that’s the month that Ronald Reagan feared Jimmy Carter would use in 1980 in order to free the Iran hostages and stop the Republican momentum; and that’s the month that many of Obama’s opponents are already jittery about, fearing the proverbial “October Surprise” that would hand Obama his second term on a platter. Two things are certain: the Republicans, who are now goading Obama for being soft on Iran and beating their own war drums, would reverse course in mid air with nary a blink and accuse the president of playing politics with American lives and needlessly embroiling it in a war which probably could have been avoided if he had been tough on Iran in the first place. And what about the Jewish vote? That would be Obama’s, lock, stock and barrel, including those Jewish voters who cannot forgive him for the Cairo speech, the bow to King Abdullah, the 1967 borders, the lack of chemistry with Netanyahu and that the fact that he has yet to produce evidence that he isn’t, after all, a closet Muslim. And in Israel, no doubt about it, he would be forever revered as the ultimate Righteous Gentile.

Iranian expansion causes nuclear war
Alon Ben-Meir, Senior Fellow of International Relations and Middle Eastern studies at New York University's Center for Global Affairs, 07 (“Ending Iran's defiance American pressure at this time will not be taken lightly by Iranian regime”, http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-3361650,00.html, accessed 6/25/10)

The fact that Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every sphere of American influence in the Middle East attests to the dismal failure of the Bush administration’s policy toward it during the last six years. Feeling emboldened and unrestrained, Tehran may, however, miscalculate the consequences of its own actions, which could precipitate a catastrophic regional war. The Bush administration has less than a year to rein in Iran’s reckless behavior if it hopes to prevent such an ominous outcome and achieve, at least, a modicum of regional stability. By all assessments, Iran has reaped the greatest benefits from the Iraq war. The war’s consequences and the American preoccupation with it have provided Iran with an historic opportunity to establish Shiite dominance in the region while aggressively pursuing a nuclear weapons program to deter any challenge to its strategy. Tehran is fully cognizant that the successful pursuit of its regional hegemony has now become intertwined with the clout that a nuclear program bestows. Therefore, it is most unlikely that Iran will give up its nuclear ambitions at this juncture, unless it concludes that the price will be too high to bear. That is, whereas before the Iraq war Washington could deal with Iran’s nuclear program by itself, now the Bush administration must also disabuse Iran of the belief that it can achieve its regional objectives with impunity. Thus, while the administration attempts to stem the Sunni-Shiite violence in Iraq to prevent it from engulfing other states in the region, Washington must also take a clear stand in Lebanon. Under no circumstances should Iranian-backed Hizbullah be allowed to topple the secular Lebanese government. If this were to occur, it would trigger not only a devastating civil war in Lebanon but a wider Sunni-Shiite bloody conflict. The Arab Sunni states, and especially Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Jordan are terrified of this possible outcome. For them Lebanon may well provide the litmus test of the administration’s resolve to inhibit Tehran’s adventurism but they must be prepared to directly support US efforts. In this regard, the Bush administration must wean Syria from Iran. This move is of paramount importance because not only could Syria end its political and logistical support for Hizbullah, but it could return Syria, which is predominantly Sunni, to the Arab-Sunni fold. Mr. Bush must realize that Damascus’s strategic interests are not compatible with Tehran’s and that the Assad regime knows only too well its future political stability and economic prosperity depends on peace with Israel and normal relations with the United States. President Assad may talk tough and embrace militancy as a policy tool, yet he is the same president who called, more than once, for unconditional resumption of peace negotiations with Israel and was rebuffed. The stakes for the United States and its allies in the region are too high to preclude testing Syria’s real intentions, which can be ascertained only through direct talks. It is high time for the Administration to reassess its policy toward Syria and begin by abandoning its schemes of regime change in Damascus. Syria simply matters; the Administration must end its efforts to marginalize a country that can play such a pivotal role in changing the political dynamics for the better throughout the region. Iran could plunge Mideast into nuclear conflagration Although ideally direct negotiation between the United States and Iran should be the first resort to resolve the nuclear issue, as long as Tehran does not feel seriously threatened it seems unlikely that the clergy will at this stage end the nuclear program. In possession of nuclear weapons Iran will intimidate the larger Sunni Arab states in the region, bully smaller states into submission, threaten Israel’s very existence, use oil as a political weapon to blackmail the West, and instigate regional proliferation of nuclear weapons’ programs. In short, if unchecked, Iran could plunge the Middle East into a deliberate or inadvertent nuclear conflagration. If we take the Administration at its word that it would not tolerate a nuclear Iran and considering these regional implications, Washington is left with no choice but to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.

===Elections – Russia Relations=== 

People think Obama will win – Controls turnout, fundraising and is a great indicator
AP, 8-29-12, [“Analysis: Lagging faith in Romney is GOP challenge,” CHARLES BABINGTON, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jGRoIDSx--gJVhwxJnNSFOd73CPA?docId=d93d4aa151404818a4ecfb2062717b12] E. Liu
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Mitt Romney may have a bigger problem than his low likability and favorability ratings. Even among voters who support him, many say he will lose to President Barack Obama. Pollsters say that's a serious handicap that deserves more notice than it's receiving. Republican image-makers, focused on trying to make Romney seem warmer, might be wiser to try to make him more plausible — as a commander in chief and as a politician who can defeat a seasoned campaigner like Obama. America¶ ns like winners, pollsters say. The "who do you THINK will win" question has a strong — but certainly not infallible — track record of signaling where an election is going. The numbers are startling. Poll after poll shows Obama and Romney roughly even when people are asked the "horse race" question: who do you support for president? But Romney trails Obama badly when the same people are asked: Who do you believe will win? This by no means assures Obama of victory. And there's plenty of time for the numbers to shift as confidence in Romney's chances grows. For now, however, veteran Republican pollsters say Romney's team should be concerned. "If I could know only one thing in a campaign's home stretch, that's what I'd want to know," GOP pollster Mike McKenna said of the likely winner question. "It's a barometer of the real mood out there." "That question gives a sense of the enthusiasm, turnout, last-minute volunteers and fundraising" that are likely to materialize, McKenna said. Another GOP pollster, Steve Lombardo, agrees. "It reflects where the race is," he said of Obama's advantage on the who's-likely-to-win question. "As much as people want to believe the race is tied," Lombardo said, Obama has an edge, at least for now. People who support a certain candidate, he said, "are less likely to go to the polls if they don't think their candidate can win."

Massive public opposition to funding transportation infrastructure
Council on Foreign Relations, June 2012 (Road to Nowhere: Federal Transportation Infrastructure Policy, p. 5)
WHAT THE PUBLIC WANTS Though Americans share Obama’s enthusiasm for making infrastructure improvement a priority, nationwide opinion polls suggest they oppose typical options for funding it. A 2011 Rockefeller Foundation poll found that nearly 80 percent of voters agree that “in order for the United States to remain the world’s top economic superpower we need to modernize our transportation infrastructure and keep it up to date.”15 Two out of three voters believed improving the country’s transportation infrastructure is “highly important.” Yet similar margins do not want to have to pay for it: 71 percent oppose increasing the gas tax, 64 percent oppose new tolls on existing roads and bridges, and 58 percent oppose paying more for each mile driven.

Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations
Weir, 3/27/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])
Russian experts say there's little doubt the Kremlin would like to see Obama re-elected. Official Moscow has been pleased by Obama's policy of "resetting" relations between Russia and the US, which resulted in the new START treaty and other cooperation breakthroughs after years of diplomatic chill while George W. Bush was president. The Russian media often covers Obama's lineup of Republican presidential challengers in tones of horror, and there seems to be a consensus among Russian pundits that a Republican president would put a quick end to the Obama-era thaw in relations. "The Republicans are active critics of Russia, and they are extremely negative toward Putin and his return to the presidency," says Dmitry Babich, a political columnist with the official RIA-Novosti news agency. "Democrats are perceived as more easygoing, more positive toward Russia and Putin." Speaking on the record in Seoul, Mr. Medvedev said the years since Obama came to power "were the best three years in the past decade of Russia-US relations.… I hope this mode of relations will maintain between the Russian Federation and the United States and between the leaders." During Putin's own election campaign, which produced a troubled victory earlier this month, he played heavily on anti-Western themes, including what he described as the US drive to attain "absolute invulnerability" at the expense of everyone else. But many Russian experts say that was mostly election rhetoric, and that in office Putin will seek greater cooperation and normal relations with the West. "Russian society is more anti-American than its leaders are," says Pavel Zolotaryov, deputy director of the official Institute of USA-Canada Studies in Moscow. "Leaders have to take popular moods into account. But it's an objective fact that the US and Russia have more points in common than they have serious differences. If Obama wins the election, it seems likely the reset will continue."

Relations check nuclear war, proliferation, China rise and the economy
Allison & Blackwill, ’11 [Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]]
at Russia matters a great deal to a U.S. government seeking to defend and advance its national interests. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's decision to return next year as president makes it all the more critical for Washington to manage its relationship with Russia through coherent, realistic policies. No one denies that Russia is a dangerous, difficult, often disappointing state to do business with. We should not overlook its many human rights and legal failures. Nonetheless, Russia is a player whose choices affect our vital interests in nuclear security and energy. It is key to supplying 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan and preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Ten realities require U.S. policymakers to advance our nation's interests by engaging and working with Moscow. First, Russia remains the only nation that can erase the United States from the map in 30 minutes. As every president since John F. Kennedy has recognized, Russia's cooperation is critical to averting nuclear war. Second, Russia is our most consequential partner in preventing nuclear terrorism. Through a combination of more than $11 billion in U.S. aid, provided through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, and impressive Russian professionalism, two decades after the collapse of the “evil empire,” not one nuclear weapon has been found loose. Third, Russia plays an essential role in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and missile-delivery systems. As Washington seeks to stop Iran's drive toward nuclear weapons, Russian choices to sell or withhold sensitive technologies are the difference between failure and the possibility of success. Fourth, Russian support in sharing intelligence and cooperating in operations remains essential to the U.S. war to destroy Al Qaeda and combat other transnational terrorist groups. Fifth, Russia provides a vital supply line to 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan. As U.S. relations with Pakistan have deteriorated, the Russian lifeline has grown ever more important and now accounts for half all daily deliveries. Sixth, Russia is the world’s largest oil producer and second largest gas producer. Over the past decade, Russia has added more oil and gas exports to world energy markets than any other nation. Most major energy transport routes from Eurasia start in Russia or cross its nine time zones. As citizens of a country that imports two of every three of the 20 million barrels of oil that fuel U.S. cars daily, Americans feel Russia’s impact at our gas pumps. Seventh, Moscow is an important player in today’s international system. It is no accident that Russia is one of the five veto-wielding, permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, as well as a member of the G-8 and G-20. A Moscow more closely aligned with U.S. goals would be significant in the balance of power to shape an environment in which China can emerge as a global power without overturning the existing order. Eighth, Russia is the largest country on Earth by land area, abutting China on the East, Poland in the West and the United States across the Arctic. This territory provides transit corridors for supplies to global markets whose stability is vital to the U.S. economy. Ninth, Russia’s brainpower is reflected in the fact that it has won more Nobel Prizes for science than all of Asia, places first in most math competitions and dominates the world chess masters list. The only way U.S. astronauts can now travel to and from the International Space Station is to hitch a ride on Russian rockets. The co-founder of the most advanced digital company in the world, Google, is Russian-born Sergei Brin. Tent2h, Russia’s potential as a spoiler is difficult to exaggerate. Consider what a Russian president intent on frustrating U.S. international objectives could do — from stopping the supply flow to Afghanistan to selling S-300 air defense missiles to Tehran to joining China in preventing U.N. Security Council resolutions. So next time you hear a policymaker dismissing Russia with rhetoric about “who cares?” ask them to identify nations that matter more to U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.

===Elections – Iran Strikes Bad=== 

Convention got Obama Democrats and independents that will stick with him
Jamelle Bouie, staff writer at The American Prospect, 9-13-12, [“What Romney has to do to win this election,” WaPO, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/what-romney-has-to-do-to-win-this-election/2012/09/13/b91bfc42-fcf2-11e1-98c6-ec0a0a93f8eb_blog.html] E. Liu

It’s clear that Obama is still riding on the strength of a post-convention bounce, judging by the new Fox News poll and his still-solid performance in the Gallup tracking poll. Because Obama’s recent gains come from Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents, there’s a chance he will retain a portion of his bounce through the fall. These aren’t undecided voters as much as they are people who have been brought back into the fold, and if the Republican convention wasn’t enough to change their loyalties, it’s hard to imagine anything — save a sudden economic downturn — that would shift their position.

Massive public opposition to funding transportation infrastructure
Council on Foreign Relations, June 2012 (Road to Nowhere: Federal Transportation Infrastructure Policy, p. 5)

WHAT THE PUBLIC WANTS Though Americans share Obama’s enthusiasm for making infrastructure improvement a priority, nationwide opinion polls suggest they oppose typical options for funding it. A 2011 Rockefeller Foundation poll found that nearly 80 percent of voters agree that “in order for the United States to remain the world’s top economic superpower we need to modernize our transportation infrastructure and keep it up to date.”15 Two out of three voters believed improving the country’s transportation infrastructure is “highly important.” Yet similar margins do not want to have to pay for it: 71 percent oppose increasing the gas tax, 64 percent oppose new tolls on existing roads and bridges, and 58 percent oppose paying more for each mile driven.

Romney election results in Iran strikes --- Obama reelection defuses the situation with diplomacy
Daily Kos, 4/16/2012 (President Obama versus Romney on Iran, p. [[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran]])

3. Approach to foreign policy: Romney says he will “not apologize” for America and advocates a return to the Bush cowboy “my way or the highway” approach to dealing with other nations. When John Bolton is an endorser, that scares me. To me, however the biggest contrast is their approach to Iran. Binyamin Netanyahu by all accounts is a hawk who is pushing the United States to bomb Iran and has been doing so for a long time. He appears to see no need for negotiation. Granted, he has a right to protect his nation if he believes that its under threat. However, we all know how flawed the “intelligence” was for the Iraq war. And its important to let negotiations play out as far as possible before rushing to war, which would have many unintended consequences for years to come. (See the Iraq war). Here’s the big difference. Here’s Netanyahu’s recent response to the ongoing P5+1 talks: http://news.yahoo.com/... Netanyahu -- whose government has not ruled out a preemptive strike on Iranian nuclear facilities -- earlier said however that Tehran had simply bought itself some extra time to comply. "My initial impression is that Iran has been given a 'freebie'," Netanyahu said during talks with visiting US Senator Joe Lieberman, the premier's office reported. "It has got five weeks to continue enrichment without any limitation, any inhibition. I think Iran should take immediate steps to stop all enrichment, take out all enrichment material and dismantle the nuclear facility in Qom," he said. "I believe that the world's greatest practitioner of terrorism must not have the opportunity to develop atomic bombs," he said. Here’s President Obama’s response yesterday to Netanyahu (in a response to a journalist's question) at the press conference in Cartagena: But Obama refuted that statement, saying "The notion that we've given something away or a freebie would indicate that Iran has gotten something." "In fact, they got the toughest sanctions that they're going to be facing coming up in a few months if they don't take advantage of those talks. I hope they do," Obama said. "The clock is ticking and I've been very clear to Iran and our negotiating partners that we're not going to have these talks just drag out in a stalling process," Obama told reporters after an Americas summit in Colombia."But so far at least we haven't given away anything -- other than the opportunity for us to negotiate," he said. Obama in conjunction with world powers is negotiating with Iran, trying to prevent a needless war. You can be sure that Mitt Romney would bow to his buddy Netanyahu and attack Iran. He has previously said “We will not have an inch of difference between ourselves and Israel”. As he also said in a debate, before making any decision regarding Israel, he will call his friend Bibi. Bottom line, if somehow the American people elect Mitt Romney, expect more of the bombastic, Bush cowboy approach to foreign policy with a more than likely bombardment of Iran. If the American people are not fooled by this charlatan and they reelect Barack Obama, he will continue in his measured way to deal with the threats around the world, quietly, through the use of negotiation, and force if absolutely necessary, but only as a last resort, without bragging, and scaring the American people with needless terrorism alerts.

Global nuclear war
Hirsch, 6 [Jorge, Professor of Physics at the University of California-San Diego, “Nuking Iran,” Znet, 4/10, http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]

Iran is likely to respond to any US attack using its considerable missile arsenal against US forces in Iraq and elsewhere in the Persian Gulf. Israel may attempt to stay out of the conflict, it is not clear whether Iran would target Israel in a retaliatory strike but it is certainly possible. If the US attack includes nuclear weapons use against Iranian facilities, as I believe is very likely, rather than deterring Iran it will cause a much more violent response. Iranian military forces and militias are likely to storm into southern Iraq and the US may be forced to use nuclear weapons against them, causing large scale casualties and inflaming the Muslim world. There could be popular uprisings in other countries in the region like Pakistan, and of course a Shiite uprising in Iraq against American occupiers. Finally I would like to discuss the grave consequences to America and the world if the US uses nuclear weapons against Iran. First, the likelihood of terrorist attacks against Americans both on American soil and abroad will be enormously enhanced after these events. And terrorist's attempts to get hold of "loose nukes" and use them against Americans will be enormously incentivized after the US used nuclear weapons against Iran. Second, it will destroy America's position as the leader of the free world. The rest of the world rightly recognizes that nuclear weapons are qualitatively different from all other weapons, and that there is no sharp distinction between small and large nuclear weapons, or between nuclear weapons targeting facilities versus those targeting armies or civilians. It will not condone the breaking of the nuclear taboo in an unprovoked war of aggression against a non-nuclear country, and the US will become a pariah state. Third, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty will cease to exist, and many of its 182 non-nuclear-weapon-country signatories will strive to acquire nuclear weapons as a deterrent to an attack by a nuclear nation. With no longer a taboo against the use of nuclear weapons, any regional conflict may go nuclear and expand into global nuclear war. Nuclear weapons are million-fold more powerful than any other weapon, and the existing nuclear arsenals can obliterate humanity many times over. In the past, global conflicts terminated when one side prevailed. In the next global conflict we will all be gone before anybody has prevailed.

===Oil DA=== 

Shift from oil is slow now, but when it occurs, the US will back out of Saudi engagement and regional affairs
Paul D. Miller, assistant professor of international-security studies at the National Defense University. He previously served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from 2007–2009, 6-28-12, [“The Fading Arab Oil Empire,” National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/article/the-fading-arab-oil-empire-7072?page=show] E. Liu

Those policies were largely sensible efforts to maintain the security of world energy supplies. However, they make less sense in light of the brewing realities in the world oil market. These developments—the world’s increasing energy efficiency and the Middle East’s loss of its comparative advantage in oil production—will take time to play out fully. But they have been under way for several decades already. In two decades or so, the global oil market and the Middle East’s geopolitical influence will be dramatically different from what they are today. The Middle East will remain an important player, but it will no longer be able to act as the “central bank of oil,” as the princes of Saudi Arabia style their kingdom. Moreover, it will forever lose the ability to credibly threaten to wield oil as a weapon. The sword of Damocles that has implicitly hovered over the West since the 1970s will be gone. That means the central goal of U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East will essentially be achieved: no power will be able to threaten the United States with unacceptable leverage over the American economy. That is because oil itself will be less important, and the world oil market will be more diffuse and diverse. The importance of this development cannot be overstated. It is a tectonic shift in the geopolitical balance of power, a strategically pivotal development only slightly less momentous than the fall of the Soviet Union. It is the slow-motion collapse of the Middle Eastern oil empire. In turn, the United States can and should begin to adapt its foreign policy to reflect these realities. It can look with more complacency on the rise and fall of particular regimes across the Middle East and North Africa. The Arab Spring, even if it brings to power moderate Islamist governments, is unlikely to threaten American interests. Washington also can play a less active part in conflicts between states, reverting to a role more like its indirect support for Iraq against Iran and less like its direct involvement in the 1991 and 2003 Iraq wars. Further, it can speak out more freely against tyranny and human-rights abuses, especially in Saudi Arabia, one of the most oppressive countries on earth. It can reclaim its position as the advocate of global liberalism, undoing the damage to the U.S. brand done by its close association with Middle Eastern dictators.

US-Saudi relations decline causes Saudi prolif – Iran makes it very probable
Amlin, Monterey Institute of International Studies, 08
Kate Amlin, Monterey Institute of International Studies, 8-1-08, [“Will Saudi Arabia Acquire Nuclear Weapons?,” NTI, www.nti.org/analysis/articles/will-saudi-acquire-nuclear-weapons/] E. Liu

Another potential motivation for Saudi proliferation is the souring of U.S.-Saudi relations, especially when such a scenario is combined with Iran's development of a nuclear arsenal. Saudi Arabia has long been a critical U.S. ally in the Middle East, and the countries share an interest in containing militant Middle Eastern regimes such as Iran and maintaining the export of Saudi oil supplies to the rest of the world.[33] The Saudis currently rely on the United States for security assurances, and would expect the United States to defend them from a regional aggressor. Yet, Riyadh has reservations about the nature of U.S. support, and worries that a divergence in national interests would prevent the United States from fully protecting Saudi Arabia in a future crisis.[34] In a notable example of this concern, U.S. President Jimmy Carter sent F-15 fighter aircraft to the Persian Gulf to protect the Saudis when war broke out between Iran and Iraq in 1980. However, Carter demonstrated that U.S. support for the Saudi kingdom had its limits when he announced that the aircraft were sent to the Gulf unarmed.[35] More recently, in 2003, the U.S. government reduced the number of forces that it had stationed in Saudi Arabia from 5,000 to 400 troops.[36] Worry that the United States would provide similarly weak support for their Kingdom in a future crisis, for instance if Iran invaded, may drive Saudi Arabia to build a nuclear arsenal to deter aggression autonomously. This scenario would become more likely in the future if Iran demonstrates a desire to build nuclear weapons, as Saudi Arabia would be vulnerable to an aggressive, stronger neighbor without the assurance of U.S. support. Constraints on Saudi Proliferation However, other experts on Saudi Arabia contend that the U.S.-Saudi strategic relationship currently acts as a disincentive that inhibits Saudi Arabia from developing nuclear weapons. Because Saudi Arabia depends on the United States for conventional armaments and military support during crises, Riyadh does not want to proliferate at the present time because doing so would deeply strain the U.S.-Saudi relationship, perhaps to an irrevocable degree. Analysts Cabrera-Farraj and Salama contend that the desire to maintain U.S. support makes the Saudis unwilling to proliferate in the current Middle Eastern security environment, since procuring unconventional armaments would ruin the U.S.-Saudi relationship and could mean that the United States would not help Saudi Arabia defend itself against an aggressive Iran.[37] Bahgat seconds this view, concluding that no evidence suggests that the U.S.-Saudi relationship will sour in the near future, and the United States and Saudi Arabia are likely to share common interests for many years, creating a strong reason for Saudi Arabia not to develop nuclear weapons.[38]

Saudi prolif is fast and causes regional proliferation and nuclear war – Draws-in great powers
Edelman, Hertog Distinguished Practitioner in Residence at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at The Johns Hopkins University, et al., 11
Eric S. Edelman, Hertog Distinguished Practitioner in Residence at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at The Johns Hopkins University. He retired as a career minister from the U.S. Foreign Service in 2009. He has served in senior positions at the Departments of State and Defense as well as the White House, visiting scholar at the Philip Merrill Center for Strategic Studies at the Johns Hopkins University and a senior associate of the International Security Program at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, as well as a distinguished fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, et al., Andrew F. Krepinevich, and Evan Braden Montgomery, 1/2-11, [“The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran The Limits of Containment,” foreign affairs.January/February 2011, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran] E. Liu

There is, however, at least one state that could receive significant outside support: Saudi Arabia. And if it did, proliferation could accelerate throughout the region. Iran and Saudi Arabia have long been geopolitical and ideological rivals. Riyadh would face tremendous pressure to respond in some form to a nuclear-armed Iran, not only to deter Iranian coercion and subversion but also to preserve its sense that Saudi Arabia is the leading nation in the Muslim world. The Saudi government is already pursuing a nuclear power capability,which could be the first step along a slow road to nuclear weapons development. And concerns persist that it might be able to accelerate its progress by exploiting its close ties to Pakistan. During the 1980s, in response to the use of missiles during the Iran-Iraq War and their growing proliferation throughout the region,Saudi Arabia acquired several dozen css-2 intermediate-range ballistic missiles from China.The Pakistani government reportedly brokered the deal,and it may have also oªered to sell Saudi Arabia nuclear warheads for the css-2s, which are not accurate enough to deliver conventional warheads eªectively. There are still rumors that Riyadh and Islamabad have had discussions involving nuclear weapons, nuclear technology, or security guarantees. This “Islamabad option” could develop in one of several diªerent ways. Pakistan could sell operational nuclear weapons and delivery systems to Saudi Arabia, or it could provide the Saudis with the infrastructure, material, and technical support they need to produce nuclear weapons themselves within a matter of years,as opposed to a decade or longer.Not only has Pakistan provided such support in the past, but it is currently building two more heavy-water reactors for plutonium production and a second chemical reprocessing facility to extract plutonium from spent nuclear fuel. In other words, it might accumulate more fissile material than it needs to maintain even a substantially expanded arsenal of its own. Alternatively,Pakistan might offer an extended deterrent guarantee to Saudi Arabia and deploy nuclear weapons, delivery systems, and troops on Saudi territory,a practice that the United States has employed for decades with its allies. This arrangement could be particularly appealing to both Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. It would allow the Saudis to argue that they are not violating the npt since they would not be acquiring their own nuclear weapons.And an extended deterrent from Pakistan might be preferable to one from the United States because stationing foreign Muslim forces on Saudi territory would not trigger the kind of popular opposition that would accompany the deployment of U.S.troops.Pakistan,for its part,would gain financial benefits and international clout by deploying nuclear weapons in Saudi Arabia, as well as strategic depth against its chief rival, India. The Islamabad option raises a host of di⁄cult issues, perhaps the most worrisome being how India would respond. Would it target Pakistan’s weapons in Saudi Arabia with its own conventional or nuclear weapons? How would this expanded nuclear competition influence stability during a crisis in either the Middle East or South Asia? Regardless of India’s reaction, any decision by the Saudi government to seek out nuclear weapons, by whatever means, would be highly destabilizing. It would increase the incentives of other nations in the Middle East to pursue nuclear weapons of their own. And it could increase their ability to do so by eroding the remaining barriers to nuclear proliferation: each additional state that acquires nuclear weapons weakens the nonproliferation regime, even if its particular method of acquisition only circumvents,rather than violates,the npt. n-player competition Were Saudi Arabia to acquire nuclear weapons, the Middle East would count three nuclear-armed states, and perhaps more before long. It is unclear how such an n-player competition would unfold because most analyses of nuclear deterrence are based on the U.S.Soviet rivalry during the Cold War.It seems likely,however,that the interaction among three or more nuclear-armed powers would be more prone to miscalculation and escalation than a bipolar competition. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union only needed to concern themselves with an attack from the other. Multipolar systems are generally considered to be less stable than bipolar systems because coalitions can shift quickly, upsetting the balance of power and creating incentives for an attack. More important, emerging nuclear powers in the Middle East might not take the costly steps necessary to preserve regional stability and avoid a nuclear exchange.For nuclear-armed states,the bedrock of deterrence is the knowledge that each side has a secure second-strike capability,so that no state can launch an attack with the expectation that it can wipe out its opponents’forces and avoid a devastating retaliation. However, emerging nuclear powers might not invest in expensive but survivable capabilities such as hardened missile silos or submarinebased nuclear forces. Given this likely vulnerability, the close proximity of states in the Middle East,and the very short flight times of ballistic missiles in the region,any new nuclear powers might be compelled to “launch on warning” of an attack or even, during a crisis, to use their nuclear forces preemptively. Their governments might also delegate launch authority to lower-level commanders,heightening the possibility of miscalculation and escalation. Moreover, if early warning systems were not integrated into robust command-and-control systems, the risk of an unauthorized or accidental launch would increase further still.And without sophisticated early warning systems, a nuclear attack might be unattributable or attributed incorrectly. That is, assuming that the leadership of a targeted state survived a first strike ,it might not be able to accurately determine which nation was responsible.And this uncertainty, when combined with the pressure to respond quickly ,would create a significant risk that it would retaliate against the wrong party, potentially triggering a regional nuclear war. Most existing nuclear powers have taken steps to protect their nuclear weapons from unauthorized use:from closely screening key personnel to developing technical safety measures, such as permissive action links, which require special codes before the weapons can be armed. Yet there is no guarantee that emerging nuclear powers would be willing or able to implement these measures,creating a significant risk that their governments might lose control over the weapons or nuclear material and that nonstate actors could gain access to these items.Some states might seek to mitigate threats to their nuclear arsenals; for instance, they might hide their weapons. In that case, however, a single intelligence compromise could leave their weapons vulnerable to attack or theft. Meanwhile, states outside the Middle East could also be a source of instability.Throughout the Cold War,the United States and the Soviet Union were engaged in a nuclear arms race that other nations were essentially powerless to influence. In a multipolar nuclear Middle East, other nuclear powers and states with advanced military technology could influence—for good or ill—the military competition within the region by selling or transferring technologies that most local actors lack today: solid-fuel rocket motors, enhanced missile-guidance systems, warhead miniaturization technology,early warning systems,air and missile defenses. Such transfers could stabilize a fragile nuclear balance if the emerging nuclear powers acquired more survivable arsenals as a result. But they could also be highly destabilizing. If, for example, an outside power sought to curry favor with a potential client state or gain influence with a prospective ally, it might share with that state the technology it needed to enhance the accuracy of its missiles and thereby increase its ability to launch a disarming first strike against any adversary. The ability of existing nuclear powers and other technically advanced military states to shape the emerging nuclear competition in the Middle East could lead to a new Great Game,with unpredictable consequences.

==Counterplans== 
===Broadband CP=== 
The United States federal government should issue multiyear tax credits for broadband infrastructure research and development and deployment in the United States.

Digital infrastructure has a larger impact on short and long term growth than transportation
Robert D. Atkinson, President of the information Technology and innovation foundation, a Washington, dc-based technology policy think tank, et al., daniel castro is a Senior analyst with iTif and Stephen ezell is a Senior analyst with the information Technology and innovation foundation, 1-09, [“The Digital Road to Recovery: A Stimulus Plan to Create Jobs, Boost Productivity and Revitalize America,” The InformaTIon Technology & InnovaTIon foundation, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/ITIFDigitalRoadtoRecovery10709.pdf] E. Liu
Spurring investment in our nation’s infrastructure is an effective strategy for getting Americans back to work during an economic downturn, particularly one that is expected to be longer than nor- mal in duration. Although projects to improve the country’s traditional physical infrastructure (e.g., roads, bridges, sewer systems) are necessary and important, investments in certain parts of our national information technology (IT) infrastructure—America’s digital infrastructure—will have a greater positive impact on jobs, productivity, and innovation. And economic stimulus measures that go to consumption, as opposed to in- vestment, will have a less beneficial impact on productivity and innovation than infrastructure investments. In this report, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) identi- fies and analyzes the employment impact of investments in three IT infrastructure proj- ects that (1) contribute to significant im- mediate direct and indirect job growth in our economy; (2) create a “network effect” throughout the economy that, in some cas- es, doubles the number of directly created jobs; and (3) provide a foundation for lon- ger term benefits, including government cost savings, economy-wide productivity, and improved quality of life for Ameri- cans. The three IT infrastructure projects are broadband networks, health IT, and the smart power grid.

Federal incentives are key to broadband expansion and stimulus
Robert D. Atkinson, President of the information Technology and innovation foundation, a Washington, dc-based technology policy think tank, et al., daniel castro is a Senior analyst with iTif and Stephen ezell is a Senior analyst with the information Technology and innovation foundation, 1-09, [“The Digital Road to Recovery: A Stimulus Plan to Create Jobs, Boost Productivity and Revitalize America,” The InformaTIon Technology & InnovaTIon foundation, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/ITIFDigitalRoadtoRecovery10709.pdf] E. Liu
Others may ask, “Why not let the states or the private sector be solely responsible for IT infrastructure in- vestments?” Building the U.S. interstate highway sys- tem required the federal government’s involvement, and the IT infrastructure projects discussed here— broadband networks, health IT, and the smart power grid—are national networks that states cannot support on their own without federal support. Indeed, we have already seen the failure of states to effectively spur na- tional networks in health care: the Bush-era proposal of using a bottom-up strategy to interlink regional health information organizations (RHIOs) has failed to produce sustainable progress towards a national health information network. Likewise, while state ef- forts to promote broadband have helped, states lack the resources in the form of grants and tax incentives to get the job done on the scale required. The federal government cannot rely on the private sector acting alone to develop broadband networks, health IT, and the smart power grid without incentives for these IT infrastructure investments. The private sector will tend to underinvest in these networks be- cause it is unable to capture all of the benefits (exter- nalities) of its investments and because of other well- documented market failures. In the case of health IT, for example, doctors and hospitals incur much of the cost, but patients and insurers get much of the ben- efit.11 In broadband, significant network externalities exist that consumers of broadband by definition do not receive.12 Moreover, building out some parts of the broadband network, particularly to high-cost areas, is not economical absent some incentives. And the same is true with the smart grid, where savings from energy efficiency and reduced pollution benefit everyone, not just certain customers. The United States should take a page from other nations like Japan, South Korea, and Sweden, which have successfully used incentives, including tax incentives, to spur the private sector to invest more in digital infrastructures. Only the federal government is in a position to achieve the scale of investment needed for these projects to be a true economic multiplier for the United States. This is not to say that federal investment is needed on a continuous basis. Far from it. Nevertheless, we be- lieve that an immediate short-term stimulus can drive networks for broadband, health IT, and the smart grid to the tipping point, after which investment can be al- most exclusively provided by the private sector without strong incentives.

===States CP=== 
Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.

States are the best for financing efficient local investment
Ronald D. Utt, Ph.D., Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, 2-6-12, [““Turn Back” Transportation to the States,” Thomas A. Roe Institute
for Economic Policy Studies, Heritage Foundation, [[http://report.heritage.org/bg2651]]] E. Liu

The federal transportation program has lost its way: It is less and less about transportation and mobility and, for the most part, has evolved into a costly spending program distributing financial rewards to a growing number of influential constituencies on a pay-to-play basis. One reform proposal that could substantially change this is legislation to “turn back” the federal highway program to the states, where it once was lodged. Arguing that the program was created to build the interstate highway system—a goal that was met in the early 1980s—turnback advocates believe it is time to declare victory and shift the resources back to the states, recognizing that today’s surface transportation problems are largely local or regional in nature and that a Washington-based, centrally planned, command-and-control program has little to offer in the way of solutions. Also, as the record of the past few authorizations reveals, a Washington-based program is more vulnerable to a wheeling-and-dealing political process that has contributed to many of the existing diversions and regional inequities as elected officials pander to influential constituencies at the expense of the taxpaying motorist. Under the turnback proposals that have been introduced in Congress since 1997, the federal government would incrementally shift to the states, over a period of five or six years, both the highway responsibilities and the financial resources to fulfill them. Most proposals would accomplish this by reducing the federal gas tax by annual increments— say four cents per year—and allowing the state to add that amount to the gas tax that the state collects on its own. The total tax paid by the motorist stays the same, but the allocation of that revenue shifts to . the states year by year until the collection of all 18.3 cents per dollar of the federal fuel tax is shifted to the states and all federal collections cease.3 Currently, the most direct legislation to implement turnback is the Transportation Empowerment Act, introduced in the Senate as S. 1164 by Senator Jim DeMint (R–SC) and in the House as H.R. 3264 by Representative Tom Graves (R–GA). Under the act, states would still be responsible for interstate maintenance and improvement, as they are today, but would now be free to do it in a way that best suits their interests, whether through tolls, partnerships, privatization, competitive contracting, or some combination of means. Now free of the federal one-size-fits-all program, states could tailor their spending and investment strategies to their particular needs, not those of a Washington bureaucracy or the privileged constituencies appended to it like barnacles on an aging ship. States would also be free of the costly and time-consuming regulatory mandates that the federal program now imposes on their transportation programs. Finally, as a consequence of these improvements and the more efficient use of resources that turnback would yield, transportation service for the traveling public would improve at a much lower cost than the attainment of that same measure of improvement would have required under the old system. At the same time, and once an improved economy restores fuel tax revenues to their longrun trend, donor states that lose money under the current system.

===EIS CP=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of whether The United States federal government should offer Alaskan land grants for the completion of the Bering Strait tunnel within the maritime boundary of the United States.

The CP competes – binding EIS includes the option to not do the plan.
Reddy 2008 (Bina – J.D. from the University Texas School of Law, Student Note Editors for the Texas Environmental Law Journal, associate at Beveridge & Diamond, P.C., The Hard Road: NEPA Review of the Trans-Texas Corridor After Sep-15 and SAFETEA-LU § 6005, p. Lexis-Nexis)

However, along with such lofty ambitions came very little substantive law with which agencies had to comply. NEPA laid out fairly bare-boned "action-forcing" provisions for meeting its goals. n45 For major federal actions significantly affecting the environment, NEPA requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS). The EIS provides a description of the proposed project, the existing environment, and an analysis of the anticipated beneficial and adverse environmental effects of the proposed project and all reasonable alternatives. One of these alternatives is required to be a "no-build" alternative. Preparation of the EIS is usually done in two stages, resulting in a draft (DEIS) and final EIS (FEIS). n46 The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) have established through their regulations comprehensive procedures for highway compliance with NEPA. n47 Under these regulations, the traditional review process requires that before proceeding with final design, property acquisition, or construction, the FHWA must show compliance with all applicable state and federal environmental laws, including NEPA. n48 Three basic steps are involved: preparation of the EIS, evaluation and approval of the EIS, and construction. n49 In a typical scenario, a state DOT sponsors a highway project and prepares the DEIS. n50 A notice and comment [*132] period is held, comments are evaluated, and the FEIS is prepared. n51 The U.S. Secretary of Transportation then independently evaluates and approves the state-prepared FEIS. n52 Once the Transportation Secretary approves the FEIS, the state can go forward with awarding a contract, and a private developer can begin construction. n53

EIS review of transportation projects is necessary to prevent severe environmental damage. The CP is modeled internationally and avoids politics.
Lovaas, 6/14/2012 (Deron – Federal Transportation Policy Director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, Earth to Congress: We Need Environmental Stewardship not Streamlining, p. http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/stewardship_not_streamlining.html)

I started by pointing out that these provisions being debated by Congress, especially in the House Republican transportation proposal, undermine the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which requires that Federal agencies conduct environmental reviews to consider the potential impacts on the environment by their proposed actions for major projects that they fund, plan or issue permits for. These take time, and they should if they are to be thorough and accomplish their intended goal. One of the originators of the law (and one of my all-time heroes), former Washington Senator Henry "Scoop" Jackson, referred rightly to the statute as requiring a "look before you leap" approach when spending taxpayer dollars. Further, if the purpose of the policy is to reduce project delays, it's quite clear that environmental reviews are far from the only factors that may be time-consuming. There is a vast number of issues that can cause hold ups—financing being a major one in this current economic climate, and local controversies and sheer project complexity creating drag. So if reducing project delays is the name of the game, tools other than broad legislative changes that invite unintended consequences such as one-size-fits-all deadlines, imperious default approval of projects or limits on alternatives review should be considered. And, as I've said many times before, states and the federal government need to perform more robust statistical analysis of project delays and not rely wholly on anecdotal evidence. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which took effect in 1970, requires that federal agencies study and disclose the environmental effects of their actions and include the public in the decision-making process for federally funded projects. In the last 42 years it has made a big difference in reducing the harmful social, economic and environmental effects of federal actions in transportation. NEPA has since been copied – at differing degrees of faithfulness – by most states and 83 nations (*correct number is actually 160 nations--thanks to a friendly reader who caught this mistake) It is a means, not an end, to better objective management of projects based on their effects. The law also created a Council on Environmental Quality, and required that environmental impact statements be prepared for major federal actions having a significant effect on the environment. Thanks to this important law, countless projects that would have had significant harmful effect on the environment have either been avoided or completed with lower environmental impact. A few examples are: The I-70 in Colorado—initial plans for the Glenwood Canyon section included blasting through mountains, adding artificial supports, and channeling the Colorado River. A citizen’s advisory committee, with better local knowledge than larger government agencies and bureaucracies, recognized the serious impact of the proposed plan. Thanks in large part due to NEPA’s procedural protections, the committee became an active part of the process. The result is a 12.5-mile stretch of highway with lower environmental impacts, the addition of rest stops, bike and jogging paths and rafting support. I have driven this stretch of highway, and hiked up to a beautiful park abutting the highway, fittingly called "Hanging Lake," which would have been destroyed under the first highway design. In the mid-90’s, the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) was pushing for a four-lane freeway parallel to an existing two-lane highway at a cost of $1.5 billion. It would have damaged habitats, forests, wetlands, and rivers. The adjacent community was against the expansion and in favor of upgrading the existing road. After reviewing MDOT’s Environmental Impact Statement (EIS,) the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) saw that MDOT did not review alternatives to the expensive new freeway. Thus, while it did add to the delay, they required MDOT to go back and look at these alternatives. In the end, the upgrade was completed instead of building an entire new freeway, saving a great deal of taxpayer money and reducing environmental damage. The North Carolina Department of Transportation failed to do an adequate EIS for the Monroe Bypass Project in 2006. When challenged in court, the agency and FHWA admitted that the no-build alternative considered as part of the Metropolitan Planning Organization’s modeling actually included a toll road in question. The agency went back to the drawing board to perform a credible alternatives analysis. If the proposed “streamlining” provisions were in place, or if NEPA had been weakened, these examples would have been cautionary tales, instead of proof the process is working. Colorado may have gone with the ugly and destructive through-the-mountain route without having to consider alternatives; Michigan may have moved forward with what Friends of the Earth deemed as one of the “Fifty Most Wasteful Roads in America;” and if North Carolina’s DOT was up against streamlining deadlines, they may have gotten away with misleading and faulty modeling scenarios. Scapegoating environmental reviews as the reason projects are delayed is not helpful for getting new transportation investments. The public supports a balanced approach to investments, and environmental advocates support more infrastructure investment.

Biodiversity degradation causes spread and evolution of new zoonotic diseases
Montira J. Pongsiri, PhD, office of Research and Development, National Center for Environmental Research, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, et al., JOE ROMAN, VANESSA O. EZENWA, TONY L. GOLDBERG, HILLEL S. KOREN, STEPHEN C. NEWBOLD, RICHARD S. OSTFELD, SUBHRENDU K. PATTANAYAK, AND DANIEL J. SALKELD, 12-09, [“Biodiversity Loss Affects Global Disease Ecology,” BioScience 59: 945–954 [[http://www.bioone.org/doi/pdf/10.1525/bio.2009.59.11.6|www.bioone.org/doi/pdf/10.1525/bio.2009.59.11.6]]] E. Liu

Patterns of health and disease have undergone dramatic transitions during human history, reflecting social and ecological changes (Barrett et al. 1998, McMichael 2001). Beginning about 10,000 years ago, the first epidemiologic transition associated with the acceleration of emerging disease occurred during the shift from hunting to agriculture. Along with permanent and larger settlements, animal domestication, and changes in human diet and social organization came a rise in zoonotic infection (Wolfe et al.2007). As communities became densely crowded, more virulent forms of human pathogens evolved (Ewald 1994). A second transition occurred during the Industrial Revolution.Theincidenceof infectiousdiseaseand infant mortality decreased, lengtheninglifeexpectancy.Atthesametime, noninfectious chronic disease rose,accounting for a greater share of overall mortality. Greater water and air pollution caused higher rates of cancer, allergies, birth defects, and impaired cognitive development. These transitions were not uniform: In some less developed partsof the world, infectious diseases remained a recurring problem and chronic diseases became more common (Barrett et al.1998). It has been proposed that we are inthe midstof a new epidemiologic transition, in which globalization and ecological disruption appear to be associated with newly emerging infectious diseases as well as reemerging infections previously thought to be under control (Barrett et al.1998,McMichael 2001).Such disruption and population expansion are especially important in the dramatic rise in zoonotic diseases (Wilcox and Gubler 2005, Jones et al. 2008). At the same time, greater mobility and trends in urbanization have contributed to the global nature and reach of these diseases. Although it is generally accepted that we are in the midst of an accelerating global extinction (Pimm et al. 1995), the connections between biodiversity decline and emerging and reemerging diseaseinthisperiodhavereceivedlittleattention. In this article, we discuss the connections between biodiversity loss and human health at multiple hierarchical levels to understand the mechanistic basis of this transition. Perhaps the clearest link between biodiversity and human health is through the spread ofinvasivespeciesandpathogens. Globalization and the transfer of exotic organisms have resultedinwidespreadbiotichomogenization—thereplacement oflocalbiotawithnonindigenousspecies.Theseexoticspecies can cause extinctions of local taxa, resulting in the loss of diversity at many levels, from genetic variation to species number.The spread of vectors and disease has also been an integral part of human history, affecting people and wildlife. During recorded history, some insect vectors havedispersed intonewhabitatsby phoresy (i.e.,oneorganismtransporting another), flight, or wind, but human-aided transport has been responsible for the arrival and spread of most invasive vectors, such as fleas, lice, and mosquitoes. Yellow fever, dengue,malaria,andWest Nile encephalitis are some of the diseases that have breached biogeographic barriers through anthropogenic movement (Lounibos 2002). Biodiversity loss can also have a direct effect on zoonotic disease transmission. Plant or structural diversity and habitat complexity can influence thecomposition, abundance, and distribution of animals that play important roles in the transmission cycles of some human diseases. For example, deforestation and habitat fragmentation or modification, and the accompanying loss of structural diversity, can lead to changes in human contact rates with a variety of pathogens and disease vectors (Vittor et al. 2006). Changes in the diversity or composition of animal hosts may be closely associated with the incidence of zoonotic diseases such as Lyme disease or West Nile virus(WNV) in humans (LoGiudiceetal.2003,Ezenwa etal.2006). At the same time, it is important to note that parasites can be important driversofbiodiversityandcomponents of ecosystem health (Hudson et al. 2006). Some disease dynamics may operate independently of biodiversity if they relyonnongeneralistvectorsoracertainabundanceofreservoir hosts (Kilpatrick et al. 2006). Finally, although additional hosts can reduce the transmission rates of particular diseases,they can also harbor other pathogens. The links between biodiversity and human health occur from the microbial level to that of the habitat. Mechanistic pathways that lead from changes in biodiversity to human health can occur at the genetic, microbial, organismal (hostorvectorspecies),community,andhabitatlevels.The rangeofpathwaysissummarizedintable1.Inthisreview,we discusscasestudiesinwhichtheselinkshavebeeninvestigated insomedetail.Wethensummarizegenerallessonsfromthis researchandidentifyseveralkeyquestionsthatremaintobe answered.Weconcludebydescribinghowdecisionmakerscan use such information to design conservation initiatives that protect both biodiversity and human health.

Diseases cause extinction – New threats and adaptability block defenses
Arturo Casadevall, Professor and Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, New York, 2005 American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow, et al., Ferric C. Fang, Liise-anne Pirofski, 7-21-11, [“Microbial Virulence as an Emergent Property: Consequences and Opportunities,” PLoS Pathogens,
[[http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.1002136]]] E. Liu

Although an existential threat from the microbial world might seem like science fiction, a catastrophic decline in amphibian populations with the extinction of dozens of species has been attributed to a chytrid fungus [1], [2], and North American bats are being decimated by Geomyces destructans, a new fungal pathogen [3]. Hence, individual microbes can cause the extinction of a species. In the foregoing instances, neither fungus had a known relationship with the threatened species; there was neither selection pressure for pathogen attenuation nor effective host defense. Humans are also constantly confronted by new microbial threats as witnessed by the appearance of HIV, SARS coronavirus, and the latest influenza pandemic. While some microbial threats seem to be frequently emerging or re-emerging, others seem to wane or attenuate with time, as exemplified by the decline of rheumatic heart disease [4], the evolution of syphilis from a fulminant to a chronic disease [5], and the disappearance of “English sweating sickness” [6]. A defining feature of infectious diseases is changeability, with change being a function of microbial, host, environmental, and societal changes that together translate into changes in the outcome of a host–microbe interaction. Given that species as varied as amphibians and bats can be threatened with extinction by microbes, the development of predictive tools for identifying microbial threats is both desirable and important.

==Kritiks== 

===Death Cult=== 

The aff’s invocation of death impacts is necrophilia, a blind obsession with body count guarantees we live to die. Vote neg to reject death impacts—this is a gateway issue—if they win death impacts are good, the rest of the 1NC applies—we won’t cross-apply to prove links
Erich Fromm 64, PhD in sociology from Heidelberg in 1922, psychology prof at MSU in the 60’s, “Creators and Destroyers”, The Saturday Review, New York (04. January 1964), pp. 22-25

People are aware of the possibility of nuclear war; they are aware of the destruction such a war could bring with it--and yet they seemingly make no effort to avoid it. Most of us are puzzled by this behavior because we start out from the premise that people love life and fear death. Perhaps we should be less puzzled if we questioned this premise. Maybe there are many people who are indifferent to life and many others who do not love life but who do love death. There is an orientation which we may call love of life (biophilia); it is the normal orientation among healthy persons. But there is also to be found in others a deep attraction to death which, following Unamuno's classic speech made at the University of Salamanca (1938), I call necrophilia. It is the attitude which a Franco general, Millán Astray, expressed in the slogan "Long live death, thus provoking Unamuno’s protest against this "necrophilous and senseless cry." Who is a necrophilous person? He is one who is attracted to and fascinated by all that is not alive, to all that is dead; to corpses, to decay, to feces, to dirt. Necrophiles are those people who love to talk about sickness, burials, death. They come to life precisely when they can talk about death. A clear example of the pure necrophilous type was Hitler. He was fascinated by destruction, and the smell of death was sweet to him. While in the years of success it may have appeared that he wanted only to destroy those whom he considered his enemies, the days of the Götterdämmerung at the end showed that his deepest satisfaction lay in witnessing total and absolute destruction: that of the German people, of those around him, and of himself. The necrophilous dwell in the past, never in the future. Their feelings are essentially sentimental; that is, they nurse the memory of feelings which they had yesterday--or believe that they had. They are cold, distant, devotees of "law and order." Their values are precisely the reverse of the values we connect with normal life; not life, but death excites and satisfies them. If one wants to understand the influence of men like Hitler and Stalin, it lies precisely in their unlimited capacity and willingness to kill. For this they' were loved by the necrophiles. Of the rest, many were afraid of them and so preferred to admire, rather than to be aware of, their fear. Many others did not sense the necrophilous quality of these leaders and saw in them the builders, saviors, good fathers. If the necrophilous leaders had not pretended that they were builders and protectors, the number of people attracted to them would hardly have been sufficient to help them seize power, and the number of those repelled by them would probably soon have led to their downfall. While life is characterized by growth in a structured, functional manner, the necrophilous principle is all that which does not grow, that which is mechanical. The necrophilous person is driven by the desire to transform the organic into the inorganic, to approach life mechanically, as if all living persons were things. All living processes, feelings, and thoughts are transformed into things. Memory, rather than experience--having, rather than being--are what counts. The necrophilous person can relate to an object--a flower or a person--only if he possesses it; hence, a threat to his possession is a threat to himself; if he loses possession he loses contact with the world. That is why we find the paradoxical reaction that he would rather lose life than possession, even though, by losing life, he who possesses has ceased to exist. He loves control, and in the act of controlling he kills life. He is deeply afraid of life, because it is disorderly and uncontrollable by its very nature. The woman who wrongly claims to be the mother of the child in the story of Solomon's judgment is typical of this tendency; she would rather have a properly divided dead child than lose a living one. To the necrophilous person justice means correct division, and they are willing to kill or die for the sake of what they call, justice. "Law and order" for them are idols, and everything that threatens law and order is felt as a satanic attack against their supreme values. The necrophilous person is attracted to darkness and night. In mythology and poetry (as well as in dreams) he is attracted to caves, or to the depth of the ocean, or depicted as being blind. (The trolls in Ibsen's Peer Gynt are a good example.) All that is away from or directed against life attracts him. He wants to return to the darkness {23} of the womb, to the past of inorganic or subhuman existence. He is essentially oriented to the past, not to the future, which he hates and fears. Related to this is his craving for certainty. But life is never certain, never predictable, never controllable; in order to make life controllable, it must be transformed into death; death, indeed, is the only thing about life that is certain to him. The necrophilous person can often be recognized by his looks and his gestures. He is cold, his skin looks dead, and often he has an expression on his face as though he were smelling a bad odor. (This expression could be clearly seen in Hitler's face.) He is orderly and obsessive. This aspect of the necrophilous person has been demonstrated to the world in the figure of Eichmann. Eichmann was fascinated by order and death. His supreme values were obedience and the proper functioning of the organization. He transported Jews as he would have transported coal. That they were human beings was hardly within the field of his vision; hence, even the problem of his having hated or not hated his victims is irrelevant. He was the perfect bureaucrat who had transformed all life into the administration of things. But examples of the necrophilous character are by no means to be found only among the inquisitors, the Hitlers and the Eichmanns. There are any number of individuals who do not have the opportunity and the power to kill, vet whose necrophilia expresses itself in other and (superficially seen) more harmless ways. An example is the mother who will always be interested in her child's sickness, in his failures, in dark prognoses for the future; at the same time she will not be impressed by a favorable change nor respond to her child's joy, nor will she notice anything new that is growing within him. We might find that her dreams deal with sickness, death, corpses, blood. She does not harm the child in any obvious way, yet she may slowly strangle the child's joy of life, his faith--in growth, and eventually infect him with her own necrophilous orientation. My description may have given the impression that all the features mentioned here are necessarily found in the necrophilous person. It is true that such divergent features as the wish to kill, the worship of force, the attraction to death and dirt, sadism, the wish to transform the organic into the inorganic through "order" are all part of the same basic orientation. Yet so far as individuals are concerned, there are considerable differences with respect to the strength of these respective trends. Any one of the features mentioned here may be more pronounced in one person than in another. Furthermore, the degree to which a person is necrophilous in comparison with his biophilous aspects and the degree to which a person is aware of necrophilous tendencies and rationalizes them vary considerably from person to person. Yet the concept of the necrophilous type is by no means an abstraction or summary of various disparate behavior trends. Necrophilia constitutes a fundamental orientation; it is the one answer to life that is in complete opposition to life; it is the most morbid and the most dangerous among the orientations to life of which man is capable. It is true perversion; while living, not life but death is loved--not growth, but destruction. The necrophilous person, if he dares to be aware of what he feels, expresses the motto of his life when he says: "Long live death!" The opposite of the necrophilous orientation is the biophilous one; its essence is love of life in contrast to love of death. Like necrophilia, biophilia is not constituted by a single trait but represents a total orientation, an entire way of being. It is manifested in a person's bodily processes, in his emotions, in his thoughts, in his gestures; the biophilous orientation expresses itself in the whole man. The person who fully loves life is attracted by the process of life in all spheres. He prefers to construct, rather than to retain. He is capable of wondering, and he prefers to see something new to the security of finding the old confirmed. He loves the adventure of living more than he does certainty. His approach to life is functional rather than mechanical. He sees the whole rather than only the parts, structures rather than summations. He wants to mold and to influence by love, by reason, by his example--not by force, by cutting things apart, by the bureaucratic manner of administering people as if they were things. He enjoys life and all its manifestations, rather than mere excitement. Biophilic ethics has its own principle of good and evil. Good is all that serves life; evil is all that serves death. Good is reverence for life (this is the main thesis of Albert Schweitzer, one of the great representatives of the love of life--both in his writings and in his person), and all that enhances life. Evil is all that stifles life, narrows it down, {24} cuts it into pieces. Thus it is from the standpoint of life-ethics that the Bible mentions as the central sin of the Hebrews: "Because thou didst not serve thy Lord with joy and gladness of heart in the abundance of all things." The conscience of the biophilous person is not one of forcing oneself to refrain from evil and to do good. It is not the superego described by .Freud, a strict taskmaster employing sadism against oneself for the sake of virtue. The biophilous conscience is motivated by its attraction to life and joy; the moral effort consists in strengthening the life loving side in oneself. For this reasons the biophile does not dwell in remorse and guilt, which are, after all, only aspects of self-loathing and sadness. He turns quickly to life and attempts to do good. Spinoza's Ethics is a striking example of biophilic morality. "Pleasure," he says, "in itself is not bad but good; contrariwise, pain in itself is bad." And in the same spirit: "A free man thinks of death least of all things; and his wisdom is a meditation not of death but of life." Love of life underlies the various versions of humanistic philosophy. In various conceptual forms these philosophies are in the same vein as Spinoza's; they express the principle that the same man loves life; that man's aim in life is to be attracted by all that is alive and to separate himself from all that is dead and mechanical. The dichotomy of biophilia-necrophilia is the same as Freud's life-and-death instinct. I believe, as Freud did, that this is the most fundamental polarity that exists. However, there is one important difference. Freud assumes that the striving toward death and toward life are two biologically given tendencies inherent in all living substance that their respective strengths are relatively constant, and that there is only one alternative within the operation of the death instinct--namely, that it can be directed against the outside world or against oneself. In contrast to these assumptions I believe that necrophilia is not a normal biological tendency, but a pathological phenomenon--in fact, the most malignant pathology that exists in mail. What are we, the people of the United States today, with respect to necrophilia and biophilia? Undoubtedly our spiritual tradition is one of love of life. And not only this. Was there ever a culture with more love of "fun" and excitement, or with greater opportunities for the majority to enjoy fun and excitement? But even if this is so, fun and excitement is not the same as joy and love of life; perhaps underneath there is indifference to life, or attraction to death? To answer this question we must consider the nature of our bureaucratized, industrial, mass civilization. Our approach to life becomes increasingly mechanical. The aim of social efforts is to produce things, and. in the process of idolatry of things we transform ourselves into commodities. The question here is not whether they are treated nicely and are well fed (things, too, can be treated nicely); the question is whether people are things or living beings. People love mechanical gadgets more than living beings. The approach to man is intellectualabstract. One is interested in people as objects, in their common properties, in the statistical rules of mass behavior, not in living individuals. All this goes together with the increasing role of bureaucratic methods. In giant centers of production, giant cities, giant countries, men are administered as if they were things; men and their administrators are transformed into things, and they obey the law of things. In a bureaucratically organized and centralized industrialism, men's tastes are manipulated so that they consume maximally and in predictable and profitable directions. Their intelligence and character become standardized by the ever-increasing use of tests, which select the mediocre and unadventurous over the original and daring. Indeed, the bureaucratic-industrial civilization that has been victorious in Europe and North America has created a new type of man. He has been described as the "organization man" and as homo consumens. He is in addition the homo mechanicus. By this I mean a "gadget man," deeply attracted to all that is mechanical and inclined against all that is alive. It is, of course, true that man's biological and physiological equipment provides him with such strong sexual impulses that even the homo mechanicus still has sexual desires and looks for women. But there is no doubt that the gadget man's interest in women is diminishing. A New Yorker cartoon pointed to this very amusingly: a sales girl trying to sell a certain brand of perfume to a young female customer recommends it by remarking, "It smells like a new sports car." Indeed, any observer of men's behavior today will confirm that this cartoon is more than a clever joke. There are apparently a great number of men who are more interested in sports-cars, television and radio sets, space travel, and any number of gadgets than they are in women, love, nature, food; who are more stimulated by the manipulation of non-organic, mechanical things than by life. Their attitude toward a woman is like that toward a car: you push the button and watch it race. It is not even too farfetched to assume that homo mechanicus has more pride in and is more fascinated by, devices that can kill millions of people across a distance of several thousands of miles within minutes than he is frightened and depressed by the possibility of such mass destruction. Homo mechanicus still likes sex {25} and drink. But all these pleasures are sought for in the frame of reference of the mechanical and the unalive. He expects that there must be a button which, if pushed, brings happiness, love, pleasure. (Many go to a psychoanalyst under the illusion that he can teach them to find the button.) The homo mechanicus becomes more and more interested in the manipulation of machines, rather than in the participation in and response to life. Hence he becomes indifferent to life, fascinated by the mechanical, and eventually attracted by death and total destruction. This affinity between the love of destruction and the love of the mechanical may well have been expressed for the first time in Marinetti's Futurist Manifesto (1909). "A roaring motor-car, which looks as though running on a shrapnel is more beautiful than the Victory of Samothrace. … We wish to glorify war--the only health-giver of the world-militarism, patriotism, the destructive arm of the Anarchist, the beautiful Ideas that kill the contempt for woman." Briefly then, intellectualization, quantification, abstractification, bureaucratization, and reification--the very characteristics of modern industrial society--when applied to people rather than to things are not the principles of life but those of mechanics. People living in such a system must necessarily become indifferent to life, even attracted to death. They are not aware of this. They take the thrills of excitement for the joys of life and live under the illusion that they are very much alive when they only have many things to own and to use. The lack of protest against nuclear war and the discussion of our "atomologists" of the balance sheet of total or half-total destruction show how far we have already gone into the "valley of the shadow of death."1 To speak of the necrophilous quality of our industrial civilization does not imply that industrial production as such is necessarily contrary to the principles of life. The question is whether the principles of social organization and of life are subordinated to those of mechanization, or whether the principles of life are the dominant ones. Obviously, the industrialized world has not found thus far an answer, to the question posed here: How is it possible to create a humanist industrialism as against the bureaucratic mass industrialism that rules our lives today? The danger of nuclear war is so grave that man may arrive at a new barbarism before he has even a chance to find the road to a humanist industrialism. Yet not all hope is lost; hence we might ask ourselves whether the hypothesis developed here could in any way contribute to finding peaceful solutions. I believe it might be useful in several ways. First of all, an awareness of our pathological situation, while not yet a cure, is nevertheless a first step. If more people became aware of the difference between love of life and love of death, if they became aware that they themselves are already far gone in the direction of indifference or of necrophilia, this shock alone could produce new and healthy reactions. Furthermore, the sensitivity toward those who recommend death might be increased. Many might see through the pious rationalizations of the death lovers and change their admiration for them to disgust. Beyond this, our hypothesis would suggest one thing to those concerned with peace and survival: that every effort must be made to weaken the attraction of death and to strengthen the attraction of life. Why not declare that there is only one truly dangerous subversion, the subversion of life? Why do not those who represent the traditions of religion and humanism speak up and say that there is no deadlier sin than love for death and contempt for life? Why not encourage our best brains--scientists, artists, educators--to make suggestions on how to arouse and stimulate love for life as opposed to love for gadgets? I know love for gadgets brings profits to the corporations, while love for life requires fewer things and hence is less profitable. Maybe it is too late. Maybe the neutron bomb, which leaves entire cities intact, but without life, is to be the symbol of our civilization. But again, those of us who love life will not cease the struggle against necrophilia.

===Infrastructure K=== 

Framing governmental support for infrastructure in terms of security authorizes violent mechanisms of disciplinary control while destroying the quality of life and instantiating the wholesale destruction of entire populations.

The alternative is to reject the aff’s security logic – That’s necessary to reconceptualize how we frame infrastructure
Reid 8 (Julian – lecturer in International Relations at King’s College, visiting professor in International Relations at the University of Lapland, “Conclusion: The Biopolitics of Critical Infrastructure Protection,” Securing ‘the Homeland:’ Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (In)Security, Ed. Myriam Dunn Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, p. 178-179)

Therefore, the contemporary reification of critical infrastructure as an object for protection owes a significant debt to the development of new forms of political agency concerned with attacking liberal regimes by undermining specifically liberal sources of security and governance. All of these developments only serve to fuel liberal representations of the war on terror as a struggle between regimes tasked with promoting security for human life against enemies dedicated to its nihilistic destruction. Why would anyone seek to destroy infrastructure other than out of a profound antipathy for the fundamental conditions which human life requires for its prosperity and security? This volume, in opening up the debate on CIP to allow for the examination of the dehumanising dimensions and implications of the practices involved in CIP, and objectives at stake in it, throws a spanner into the works of such modes of representation. This is especially true for the chapters by Der Derian and Finkelstein (Chapter 4) as well as Bonditti (Chapter 6), both of which extend Michel Foucault's seminal analysis of the origins of liberal regimes in practices of discipline and biopolitics whereupon infrastructure was first objectified as a fundamental source of security to the state. Both of these chapters demonstrate in different ways why the rationalities informing CIP cannot be understood in simplistic terms of a desire for the protection of human beings from the risk of violent death at the hands of terrorists, but express a more technocratic will to defend infrastructures even at the cost and to the detriment of distinctly human capacities. Second they underline the fact that the waging of this war involves the deployment of tactics which, rather than simply securing the life of populations imperilled by terrorist tactics, deliberately target it with newly insidious techniques of discipline and control, all in the name of infrastructure protection. In doing so, the volume highlights what can justly be described as the biopolitical dimensions of the war on terror and the broader security strategies of liberal regimes that have been developed to prosecute it. In concluding this volume, then, I would like to extend and draw out what I read as being its most valuable contribution to our knowledge of this lugubrious phenomenon. If we believe our governments and most of the academic literature on the subject, both the security and quality of life is inextricably dependent on the protection of the critical infrastructures through which liberal regimes are organised. But the provision of such infrastructure protection requires the deliberate targeting of the human life that inhabits critical infrastructures with increasingly invasive techniques of governance. As a consequence of the declaration of the war on terror, and more especially as a result of the ways in which the threat of terrorism is being interpreted and understood by its proponents, the investment of regimes in the development of new techniques and technologies for the control of human life is increasing rapidly. Strategies for critical infrastructure protection are affording significant advances in the development of scientific knowledge and technological control of the evolutionary capacities and adaptive capabilities of the human. Amid the creation of plans for the provision of critical infrastructure protection, and in the establishment of new governmental agencies for the execution of those plans, the biological sciences in particular are undergoing a major renaissance (Cooper 2006). The implications of these new forms of knowledge and security technologies for the quality of human life are profoundly paradoxical. Human beings themselves do, of course, rely significantly on the operability and maintenance of infrastructures them¬elves. But it is a fact that human beings within critical infrastructures are also regarded as posing the greatest danger to them (Dunn 2005). In this context, the human can be seen to have become both the rogue element against which liberal regimes are today seeking to secure themselves, as well as the central resource on which they are attempting to draw in pursuit of their security. In order to afford their own protection, liberal regimes have learned historically to govern human life via its reduction to what I have called 'logistical life'. This term is apt because the techniques and practices of social control through which regimes of the eighteenth century learned to govern were drawn directly from the domains of war, military strategy, tactics and organisation (Reid 2006: 17-39). Logistical life is a life lived under the duress of the command to be efficient, to communicate one's purposes transparently in relation to others, to be positioned where one is required, to use time economically, to be able to move when and where one is told to, and crucially, to be able to extol these capacities as the values for which one will agree to kill and die for (Reid 2006: 13). In the eighteenth century, the deployment of techniques with which to increase the logistical efficiencies of societies was legitimised by regimes through the claim that it was necessary for the exceptional defence of the civil domain of society from its external enemies. Increased military efficiency and discipline was said to be necessary and beneficial to forms of civil life, the 'quality' of which was defined by their distinction from the warlike conditions that were said to prevail beyond the boundaries of the state. It is in critique of this type of legitimisation that Foucault's analysis, in its demonstration of the ways in which techniques for the increase of the logistical efficiency of armed forces impacted directly upon the everyday order of life within the civil domain of society, is so powerful. He exposes how the methods with which liberal regimes historically prepared for war with external enemies provided model templates with which to subject the life of their civilian populations to new insidious forms of control and manipulation, and how, in turn, liberal regimes have sought to legitimise their wars in the name of the defence and development of the very forms of logistical ways of living they were busy inculcating within and among their subjects. Now, in the twenty-first century and in the context of the war on terror, we are witnessing precisely the same methods of legitimisation being employed by liberal regimes, but with a radical twist. Today, the argument being deployed is not, as it was in the eighteenth century, that the increase of the logistical efficiency of societies is a necessary sacrifice in the interest of defending an otherwise distinctly civilian population. Today, it is deemed necessary to defend the logistical life of society from enemies that are deemed dangerous precisely because they target life in its logistical dimensions. Amid the global campaign against terrorism, the capacities of societies to practice a logistical way of life have become indistinguishable from conceptions of the 'quality of life' for human beings. Throughout, for example, the seminal US National Plan for Research and Development in Support of Critical Infrastructure Protection, one finds the quality of human life construed in terms of its logistical capacities. The docility and plasticity of human bodies, the manipulability of human dispositions, and the many ways in which human behaviour can be subjected to techniques of control, are conceptualised not just as a means for the protection of liberal societies, but as qualities that distinguish the uniqueness of the human species. As the Plan for Research and Development states: Part of the challenge of infrastructure protection is how to take full advantage of human capabilities. The Social, Behavioral and Economic (SBE) Working Group in the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) is focused on scientific research in the areas of sensory, motor, cognitive and adaptive capability of the human. Currently, the brain is unmatched by any technological system. The human brain is a semi-quantitative supercomputer that is programmable and reprogrammable by explicit training, previous experience, and on-going observations on a real-time, virtually instantaneous basis. (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 63) The quality of human life, we are told in forthright terms, is reducible to its superior amenability to logistical transformation. Its greater capacity for adaptation and transformation is what distinguishes it from other life forms. Contemporary accounts of this form of human superiority, understood in terms of humans' amenability to logistical techniques of transformation, recall in their depth and specificity the expressions of wonderment at life's malleability to be found in military texts of the eighteenth century that Foucault's original exploration of the disciplinary and biopolitical underpinnings of liberal modernity first exposed (1991: 135-69). Human eyes are capable of high-resolution, stereo-optical vision with immense range, and, integrated with a highly plastic brain, make humans uniquely capable of discovery, integration, and complex pattern recognition. Human hands constitute a dexterous, sensitive biomechanical system that, integrated with the brains and eyes, are unmatched by current and near-future robotic technologies. Humans operate in groups synergistically and dynamically, adjusting perceptions, relationships and connections as needed on a real-time and virtually instantaneous basis. Human language capabilities exist and operate within a dimensional space that is far more complex and fluid than any known artificial architectures. (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 63) As Foucault's original analysis of the development of liberal regimes of power revealed, the emergence of the military sciences in the eighteenth century was allied to as well as constitutive of the broader development of the life sciences. Developments in modern military science have consistently fed off and contributed to changes in the life sciences more generally. Now, in the twenty-first century, we can see this alliance being cemented in the development of new methods for the defence of liberal regimes in what is known as 'human factors engineering', or HF/E. HF/E is, as the National Plan describes, 'both a science of human performance and an engineering discipline, concerned with the design of systems for both efficiency and safety' (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 64). Developed since before the Second World War, its aim is to harness the 'cognitive, emotional and social capabilities of the human' in order to design more secure systems for the defence of critical infrastructures and to invest in such human capabilities with a view to creating systems of infrastructure that are resilient to 'deceptive behaviors', 'rogue activities', and to 'insider threats' said to endanger critical infrastructures (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 42). But in engineering, the means with which to secure infrastructures against the 'deceptions', 'rogues' and 'insider threats' aimed at it, human life today faces increasingly intense threats to its integrity. The radical indeterminacy of the human, its capacity for error, its creative capacities for thought and expression, are directly endangered by the increasingly insidious forms of control being wielded and asserted in strategies for the securing of critical infrastructures against terrorism. As the Plan informs its readership, 'Anyone can be presumed to be a candidate for insider threat' (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 43). Indeed, everyone is suspect of constituting this form of threat. Research and development in response to the fear of insider threats is aimed at the creation of what is called a 'National Common Operating Picture for Critical Infrastructure' (COP) not simply in order to 'sense rogue behavior' in pre-identified sources of threats to life, but in order to be able to 'sense rogue behaviour in a trusted resource or anticipate that they may be a candidate threat' (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 41). It is therefore deemed necessary 'that we presume any insider could conduct unauthorised or rogue activities' (Department of Homeland Security 2004: 42). Consequently, the movement of human life, each and every possible human disposition and expression, is becoming the target of strategies construed paradoxically for the defence of human well-being. In this context, any action or thought that borders on abnormality is to be targeted as a potential source of threat. As the Plan states, 'the same anticipation of overt damaging action by a purposeful threat can be used to anticipate an unfortunate excursion in thought or action by a well-meaning actor' (Depattment of Home¬land Security 2004: 44). The development of technologies and techniques for the analysis of 'what people do' and their 'deceptive behaviours' runs the risk not simply of outlawing fundamental conditions for quality of human life. It creates and indeed instantiates the risk of the violent destruction of forms of life, of human populations and individuals, who through no fault of their own are deemed to exhibit signs of anomalous and threatening behaviour. The deliberate murder of Jean Charles de Menezes, killed with five gunshots to the head fired at point-blank range by British police on 22 July 2005, is a case in point. This human being, described as an 'unidentified male' with 'dark hair beard/stubble', was targeted on account of the fact that his 'description and demeanour' matched the identity of a bomber suspect'. The simple fact of his leaving an apartment block thought to have been used by terrorist suspects, the simple fact that on his subsequent journey, he exited and re-entered the bus on which he travelled, and in spite of the fact that he walked and did not run, showed no sign of possessing weapons of destruction, and gave no signal of intent of any sort, was nevertheless deemed to represent a divergence from a normal pattern of behaviour so serious that he was targeted and killed with the most deliberate violence. In spite of the scale and intensity with which the aim of a complete mapping of human dispositions and behaviours has been pursued, and in spite of the urgency with which today it is being implemented, the most banal and everyday expressions of life continue to fall, tragically, outside its grasp. As it was in the eighteenth century that the fantasy of a society which functions as a type of socio-military machine, and 'that would cover the whole territory of the nation and in which each individual would be occupied without interruption but in a different way according to the evolutive segment, the genetic sequence in which he finds himself' (Foucault 1991: 165) emerged, so at the beginning of the twenty-first century, we can see that fantasy being given new forms in the shape of critical infrastructure protection. Making sense of what is at stake in this phenomenon requires a complete reversal of the terms in which its utility is currently being articulated by liberal regimes of power. Rather than conceptualise this present struggle in terms of a war on terror in the defence of a common humanity against an enemy that is inimical to life, we can better conceptualise it as a conflict over the political constitution of life itself. When the methods with which regimes are seeking to secure the life of their societies demand an incremental targeting of life, to the point where the most ordinary expressions of life are rendered objects of strategic intervention, it is necessary to question the ways of valorising life that create such paradoxical conditions. This volume, in my reading, creates important openings for the further exploration of such a line of questioning.



==Negative Strategies== 
===Hendrickson=== 
====Round 2 v. Connally CK - River Locks==== 
1NC: Elections - Russia, Privates CP, Infrastructure K, Asian Carp PIC,
2NR: Elections

====Round 3 v. Westlake DB - Hypotesting==== 
1NC: Death Cult, Government PIC, Sprawl DA, Oil DA, Elections - Russia, States CP, Infrastructure K
2NR: Infrastructure K

===Grapevine=== 
====Round 2 v. Colleyville CL- Bering Strait==== 
1NC: Death Cult, EIS, Infrastructure K, Elections DA, Alaska CP, T - Transportation
2NR: Infrastructure K

====Round 3 v. Charles Page TT - Solar Roads==== 
1NC: Death Cult, States CP, Infrastructure K, Elections - Iran Strikes Bad, EIS CP
2NR: Infrastructure K

====Octos v. Greenhill PS - HSR==== 
1NC: Sprawl DA, Infrastructure K, States CP, Elections - Iran Strikes Good
2NR: Infrastructure K

====Quarters v. Greenhill RG - HSR==== 
1NC: Sprawl DA, Infrastructure K, States CP, Elections - Mandates DA
2NR: Sprawl DA

===Greenhilll=== 
====Round 1 vs Polytechnic Academy AA - Electric Vehicles==== 
2NR: Elections

====Round 3 vs Woodward DS - Surface Transportation==== 
2NR: Broadband CP + Sprawl

====Round 5 vs CY Byrd GN - Fasching Disabilities==== 
2NR: Sprawl CP + Sprawl DA, Inclusion K

===St. Marks=== 
====Round 1 vs Damien LR - Carriers==== 
2NR: T Military

====Round 3 vs. Jenks DR - Camus==== 
2NR: PIC out of transprotation, Sprawl

====Round 5 vs Westlake DB - Wormholes==== 
2NR: Space Bad DA

===Spring Woods - Houston Memorial=== 

====Round 2 vs Houston International - Natives==== 
2NR: Fiscal Cliff

====Round 4 vs Hendrickson BS - Mississippi Lock==== 
2NR: States + Fiscal Cliff

====Round 5 vs Kinkaid JM - JARC==== 
2NR: Fiscal Cliff

====Finals vs Kinkaid RT - JARC==== 
2NR: Mobility K


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]