<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Aff: arthur.f879@gmail.com
Neg: masonshi1@gmail.com
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>= 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure Bank 1AC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Plan: United States federal government should establish and capitalize a national transportation infrastructure bank.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 is Economy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unemployment is high now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Nelson D.</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Schwartz 1/30</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">New York Times Economy, “U.S. Growth Halted as Federal Spending Fell in 4th Quarter”, 1-30-2013, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/31/business/economy/us-economy-unexpectedly-contracted-in-fourth-quarter.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Disappointing data released Wednesday underscore … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">taking away stimulus now.”</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That triggers double dip recession by 2013—investment solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrew </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Fieldhouse</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">, 9/19/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4px;">Fieldhouse is an expert in Tax and Budget Policy • Public Economics/ he joined the Economic Policy Institute in June 2010 to work on fiscal policy and progressive budget reform- is an expert on the economy public investment, and macroeconomics- he has provided frequent commentary on the current budget debate for economic recovery, “Avoiding a double-dip recession doesn’t require extending the Bush tax cuts”, [[http://www.epi.org/publication/avoiding-double-dip-recession-doesnt-require/]]\</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Politicians, pundits, and the press corps are turning their attention to the … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">induce a recession in 2013</span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">However, panic over this scenario (which nobody thinks will come to pass) should not be allowed to be exploited politically to maintain tax policies that provide only minimal support to the economy while turning a blind eye to the real threats to economic and employment growth over the coming year.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Austerity triggers collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Mark</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Thoma 1/9/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">13, MARK THOMA is a macroeconomist and time-series econometrician at the University of Oregon. His research focuses on how monetary policy affects the economy, and he has also worked on political business cycle models. Mark is currently a fellow at The Century Foundation, “What can Washington do to boost the U.S. economy?”, CBS News, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-57562935/what-can-washington-do-to-boost-the-u.s-economy/]], SA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">(MoneyWatch) As we enter the new year, the nation'smost …. blood feud over the debt ceiling and spending cuts, fiscal policymakers are another story.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure failure undermines the economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4px;">William A. Galston and Korin</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Davis </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">December</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">2012,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">12/13/12, “Setting Priorities, Meeting Needs: The Case for a National Infrastructure Bank, Brookings Institute”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/12/13%20infrastructure%20galston%20davis/1213_infrastructure_galston_davis.pdf]], SA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Inadequaciesin</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> infrastructure</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">don’t just hurt us at home; they …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Investors are looking</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">for reliable alternativesto low-yielding Treasury securities, and they are willing to accept more modest yields than they sought even five years ago.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">3 Internal Links: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is Jobs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Christopher</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Alessi 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">/8/11, Associate writer for the Council of Foreign Relationship, “Banking on U.S. Infrastructure Revival”, [[http://www.cfr.org/economics/banking-us-infrastructure-revival/p25782]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">U.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">S. President Barack Obama is …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> economy in the long run</span><span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">But many congressional Republicans say that, as with the stimulus package implemented during the height of the financial crisis, U.S. workers would not immediately feel the effects of infrastructure spending, if at all. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell says more government spending (NYT) would only strangle already-anemic economic growth.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Job creation is the biggest internal link to the economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Tyson 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The immediate crisis ….</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;"> otherwise create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the next few years.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Second is the private sector, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Austerity destroys the private sector</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jillian </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Berman</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 7/31/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">American Enterprise Institute: U.S. Austerity Measures Hurting Broader Economy”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/30/cutting-government-spending_n_1719675.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Austerity lovers of the world take note</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">:</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cutting government </span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Greece, leaders agreed to a package of spending cuts demanded by its creditors, even as the country struggles with high unemployment.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">establishment</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of the NIB spurs the private sector- the effect is immediate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Robert </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Puentes 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">7/16/12, Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. The Initiative was established to address the pressing transportation and infrastructure challenges facing cities and suburbs in the United States , “What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?”, Brookings Institute, [[http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/07/16-infrastructure-bank-puentes]], SA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">The related second point is that an NIB would ideally focus on projects that are truly national in scope. Not that they're giant mega projects traversing the continent but that they connect to larger national goals. If we truly had a multi-modal freight plan, one could envision the NIB supporting projects necessary to fulfill its goals. Or else projects that are part of a national renewable energy strategy. Then because the projects have national purpose and intent, they should be granted priority and expedited through the federal review process. The point here is that a NIB shouldn't be established to enable us to keep doing what we've …. such deals and fully protect the public interest is paramount.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third is Competitiveness</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Status quo infrastructure hamstrings competitiveness- the NIB is key</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Puentes 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Robert, Senior Fellow at the Brookings institution “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Most experts agree the</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">nited </span>S</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">tates </span>must address</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">….</span> invest</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">here</span>in the U</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">nited </span>S</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">tates.</span>__


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic collapse causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16px;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]], AM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the Great Depression</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">is not likely to be repeated, the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">lessons</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">…. more</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">dog-eat-dog world.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Newest studies prove the correlation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Royal 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Less intuitive is how periods of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic decline …. by economic crises</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Economic strength prevents __great power war__ </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Sanjaya</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Baru 2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">is a Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 163 - 168</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Hence</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">policies and</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">performance </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">do</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">DC. We must expect a revival of interest in Kennedy's arguments in the current context. </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is Manufacturing:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Highway investment is failing and it wrecks the economy- most recent studies prove</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Reuters1/15</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">/13, Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, “Study: Infrastructure Troubles Could Cost U.S. 3.5M Jobs by 2020?”, [[http://www.foxbusiness.com/economy/2013/01/15/study-infrastructure-troubles-could-cost-us-35m-jobs-by-2020/]], SA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A study released</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">on Tuesday by the American Society of Civil Engineers says the cost in terms of lost jobs would be 3.5 million by 2020. It also </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">revenue</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">as automobile fuel efficiency rises.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only the plan can leverage sufficient capital</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">The Department of the Treasure</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">and The Council of Economic Advisors</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">(October 21st, “AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic]] policy/Documents/infrastructure_investment_report.pdf)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">Not all infrastructure projects are worth the investment.</span> Investing<span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">rationally</span>in infrastructure <span class="1underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">result in support for projects that yield the greatest returns to society and are most likely to deliver long-run economic benefits that justify the up-front investments.</span></span>//



//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Highway investment is key to U.S. manufacturing</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Hermann 11</span><span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">– President American Society of Civil Engineers, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE (Andrew, 2011, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector,” lexis</span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">ASCE commends the Joint Economic Committee for holding a hearing today on how surface transportation investment is a key factor for continued economic recovery and job creation.The Society is pleased to present to the Committee our views on </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">investing in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">the nation's </span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">maintain and improve the nation's infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Manufacturing is key to the defense industrial base</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Thompson, ’11</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">[2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, “Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,”, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Last week, the federal government reported that the U.S. trade deficit grew by 33 percent in 2010 to nearly half a trillion dollars. Most of the gap resulted from an imbalance in trade with China, which shipped $365 billion in goods to America but only bought $92 billion in U.S. goods. The resulting U.S. deficit of $273 billion in bilateral trade with Beijing reflects a persistent feature of the Sino-American relationship since China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Over the last ten years, China has mounted the biggest challenge to the U.S. manufacturing sector ever seen, threatening producers of steel, chemicals, glass, paper, …. g America’s decline in manufacturing.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s key to military effectiveness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Eaglen and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Sayer 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, “Maintaining the Superiority of America’s Defense Industrial Base,” pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">The Foundation of American Military Strength Since World War II</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the U</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">nited </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">tates</span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">maintain and continue to</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">modernize</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">recent decades. These include, among others, air dominance, strategic lift, the ability to project power throughout and beyond the world's oceans, counterinsurgency proficiency, and the ability to seize and control land. Maintaining these capabilities has enabled the soldier, sailor, airman, and Marine to remain adequately prepared for a full spectrum of potential operations.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deterrence de-escalates all conflicts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Paul</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Robinson 1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” 3/22/2001, [[http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">I served as an arms negotiator on the last two agreements before the dissolution of the Soviet Union and have spent most of my career enmeshed in the complexity of nuclear weapons issues on the government side of the table. It is abundantly clear (to me) that formulating a new nuclear weapons policy for the start of the 21st Century will be a most difficult undertaking. While the often over-simplified picture of deterrence during the Cold War—two behemoths armed to the teeth, staring each other down—has thankfully retreated into history, there are nevertheless …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">retaliate</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">for such an attack with nuclear weapons; but the choice would be in our hands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tensions in Syria Extremely High</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/anne_barnard/index.html|ANNE BARNARD]] and [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/r/jodi_rudoren/index.html|JODI RUDOREN]] 1/31</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,” Syria Says It Has Right to Counterattack Israel, January 31, 2013[[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/01/world/middleeast/syrias-confirmation-of-airstrike-may-undercut-israels-strategy-of-silence.html?hp]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">BEIRUT, Lebanon —</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Tensions over</span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">weapons installations</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Strong US deterrent signal’s key to check Syrian behavior --- solves Lebanon interference, Hizballah support and Iran-Syria alliance</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Caroline </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18.6667px;">Glick 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, columnist for the Jerusalem Post, “Syria's Hour of Triumph”, July 14,[[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2009/07/14/syrias_hour_of_triumph_96926.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Obama's response to the Sky News query was instructive. "There are aspects of Syrian behavior that trouble us and we think there is a way that Syria can be much more constructive on a whole host of these issues," he began cautiously. Then came the zinger: "But as you know, I'm a believer in engagement and my hope is that we can continue to see progress on that front." By so describing Syria, Obama acknowledged that it hasn't changed. The Syria he seeks to engage is the same Syria that Bush decided to isolate. But facts cannot compete with "hope." Obama is a "believer." He has "hope." In his move to engage Syria, Obama is enthusiastically joined by France and the rest of Europe as well as by Saudi Arabia and Egypt. Over the past several months, Obama's Middle East envoy George Mitchell, French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and dozens of others have beaten a path to Assad's door. With French President Nicolas Sarkozy leading the charge, all are agreed that Assad is a man they can do business with. But are they right? In the absence of any change in Damascus's behavior, is there reason to believe that it can be coddled into abandoning its strategic alliance with Iran? Can it be sweet-talked into ending its support for the insurgency in Iraq, or arming Hizbullah and sponsoring Hamas? Can Syria be appeased into ending its nuclear and other nonconventional proliferation activities? Can it be "engaged" into ending its campaign against the pro-Western democrats in Lebanon? To assess the reasonableness of engagement, it is first necessary to analyze the West's most significant achievements regarding Syria in recent years and consider their origins. Then, too, it is …. independence to the same Syrian regime that killed his father four years ago.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Israel-Syria war causes WMD escalation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steven </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18.6667px;">Leser 06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, specializes in Politics, Science & Health, & former District Chair and PR Chair within Democratic Party county organizations,7/30/06, opednews.com/articles/opedne_steven_l_060730_middle_east_conflict.htm</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">A few years ago,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Syria announced</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">l enemies</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">given that her ability to respond to anyone conventionally after weathering the chemical attack would be severely compromised, this includes Hezbollah and the Palestinians.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And smallpox use</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jerome </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18.6667px;">Corsi 07</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, citing Jill Bellamy-Dekker, director of the Public Health Preparedness program for the European Homeland Security Association under the French High Committee for Civil Defense, 3/5/7 WorldNetDaily, [[http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=54542]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">Bellamy-Decker also told WND the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…. accurately against military and civilian targets.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clifford </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18.6667px;">Singer 01</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2001 [[http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm]], The bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Volume XIII / Number 1 / Spring 2001</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">There are, however, two technologies currently under development that may pose a more serious threat to …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">in question</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">when and if this is achieved. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tensions over Sankaku islands are on the brink of war—multiple warrants</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Hille 1/11/13</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Kathrin Kille January 11, 2013 Financial Times “Japan and China island tensions mount” <[[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/79f1321c-5be8-11e2-bf31-00144feab49a.html#axzz2Jj0INjqf|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/79f1321c-5be8-11e2-bf31-00144feab49a.html#axzz2Jj0INjqf]]></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese and Chinese …. bilateral trade. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">The Chinese government reacted with steps aimed at giving its claim a legal basis, such as an announcement of a territorial baseline. It also stepped up regular patrols by maritime surveillance ships and aircraft in and near the islands’ airspace. More recently, Chinese military aircraft have also become more active in the area.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US deterrence stops Senkaku dispute</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Pike 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, John Pike, one of the world's leading experts on defense, space and intelligence policy, Director of GlobalSecurity.org, which he founded in December 2000, previously worked for nearly two decades with the Federation of American Scientists, where he directed the Space Policy, Cyberstrategy, Military Analysis, Nuclear Resource and Intelligence Resource projects, frequently called upon to testify before Congress, established the Space Policy Working Group, set up the Military Spending Group, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, has served on a variety of non-governmental boards and advisory committees, including the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the Peace Research and European Security Studies Center, and the Verification Technology Information Centre of London, has been a consultant to numerous groups, including the United Nations Group of Government Experts on Confidence Building Measures in Outer Space, regularly provides commentary and analysis on space and security issues to PBS, CNN, MSNBC, Fox, ABC, CBS, NBC, BBC, NPR, and numerous print and online publications. Aerospace Weekly called him "one of the country's most credible space industry observers," and the Christian Science Monitor wrote that he was "one of the handful of American observers equally conversant with both the technological and political aspects of strategic defense and arms control." In 1986 the National Journal named Pike as one of the 150 "People Who Make a Difference" in Washington. In 1988 U.S. News and World Report, citing his work on space and defense, listed him among the 250 members of the "New American Establishment." And in 1994 he was named one of the 25 "Rising Stars Who Will Lead us into the Next Space Age" by the National Space Society's Ad Astra magazine. 8/29, 2012, “Senkaku / Diaoyutai Islands”,[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/senkaku.htm]]) //GL</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beijing is …. of US forcesnearby.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">NATHAN AND ROSS ‘97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Prof’s Poly Sci @ Columbia And Boston College The Great Wall And The Empty Fortress, Page 99</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A common …. and the rest of Southeast Asia.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 3 is Bioterror</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bioterror attack coming by 2013—high probability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Sharoff 2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">[“Bioterrorism: Growing Threat, Inadequate Budget.” November 14, 2011. [[http://gppreview.com/2011/11/14/bioterrorism-growing-threat-inadequate-budget/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Many officials who have reviewed classified intelligence believe …. they’d only need a small amount to carry out several attacks).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That spreads globally in six weeks—multiple warrants</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Levy 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">[Janet Ellen, The American Thinker. “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]] BW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera. A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan. Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Biological …. periods</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days. Bioweapons can be tailored for specific situations from a variety of desired characteristics, including pathogenicity or disease-producing capacity, incubation period, virulence and transmissibility. Pathogenicity is relative to the quantity of a particular agent that is necessary to cause disease. The incubation period is critical for determining the timing of the desired period between exposure and the onset of illness. Virulence determines how debilitating and lethal the disease will manifest in the target population. Transmissibility defines the ease in which the disease is able to spread. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US responds with nukes</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">IRC 01</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC, [[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear deterrence is …. China, India, and Pakistan</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Finally, there is no support for this U.S. policy, even among U.S. allies. NATO has adopted a watered-down version of the U.S. nuclear doctrine, but has been unable to agree on any guidance for military planners to operationalize the policy. Using nuclear weapons would make the U.S. a pariah state. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">State budget cuts to bioterror now and they’re devastating</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Homeland Security Newswire 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">12/22/11, “Budget cuts hamper U.S. response to biological attack”, Homeland Security Newswire, [[http://www.homelandsecuritynewswire.com/dr20111222-budget-cuts-hamper-u-s-response-to-biological-attack]], SA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">A recently released report charges that</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">state and …. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the country</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">,” Levi said. Public health officials are not optimistic about the future as federal budget cuts are expected to continue next year. In the proposed budget for 2012, lawmakers have proposed cutting funding for hospital preparedness, vaccine development, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.Furthermore, with the “super committee” unable to reach an agreement, the automatic $1.2 trillion cuts over the next ten years will undoubtedly affect public health programs. To help boost biological response capabilities, the report recommends creating a dedicated fund for public health preparedness, improving the ability of medical facilities to handle a sudden mass influx of patients, and bolstering biosurveillance capabilities. “The old adage is that it’s better to be safe than sorry,” James Marks, the director of the Health Group of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. “Unfortunately, if we ignore preparedness now, we’ll be sorry later when the next emergency strikes.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NIB is key- relieves pressure from state budgets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">COEA ‘12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Council of Economic Advisers, Department of Treasury (“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, March 23, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget proposes a bold plan to renew and expand America’s …. </span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**mechanisms**,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">such as Build America Bonds. The third key finding is that investing in infrastructure benefits the middle class most of all. Finally, there is considerable support for greater infrastructure investment among American consumers and businesses. The President’s plan addresses a significant and longstanding need for greater infrastructure investment in the United States. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Targeted investments in America’s transportation infrastructure would generate both short-term and long-term economic benefits</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">. However, transforming and rehabilitating our nation’s transportation infrastructure system will require not only greater investment but also a more efficient use of resources, because simply increasing funding does not guarantee economic benefits. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">This idea is embodied in the President’s proposal to reform our nation’s transportation policy</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">, as well as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">to establish a National Infrastructure Bank</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">, which would leverage private and other non-Federal government resources to make wise investments in projects of regional and national significance. In this report, we begin by reviewing factors that should influence investment in infrastructure. We review the economic literature regarding returns to infrastructure investment. Next, we consider the specific condition of our economy and labor market, including the availability of workers with the requisite skills, which suggest that now is a particularly favorable time to initiate these investments. Then we analyze the benefits derived by American families and companies from well-functioning infrastructure systems and the costs associated with poor infrastructure systems. Finally, we review public and business sentiment regarding infrastructure investment. </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solvency</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Contention 4 is Solvency </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a federal NIB can attract investors</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Cooper et. al 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Keith Miller, Kristina Costa, and Donna Cooper, September 2012, Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, Kristina Costa is Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress- she also conducts research and writes on Social Impact Bonds and other topics in government reform. She has presented on Social Impact Bonds domestically and internationally, Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center, “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness”, American Progress, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf]], SA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[An] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">national infrastructure bank </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[NIB] …. efficiency</span><span class="1underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">As the United States becomes more integrated into an increasingly competitive global economy, we have no choice but to pursue these goals, and we must do so with the greatest possible urgency. Indeed, the idea of an infrastructure bank is not new to policymakers. (see box on following page)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">The NIB is the most effective solution—European Investment Bank proves </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Lind 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Policy Director of the Economic Growth Program at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_America_Foundation|New America Foundation]]B.A. in English and History, University of Austin, Texas, M.A. in International Relations from Yale University, J.D., University of Texas Law School, Assistant to the Director of the U.S. State Department’s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Center_for_the_Study_of_Foreign_Affairs&action=edit&redlink=1|Center for the Study of Foreign Affairs]],Editor of New American Contract, and a columnist for [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salon_magazine|Salon magazine]]. Lind was a guest lecturer at Harvard Law School and has taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johns_Hopkins|Johns Hopkins]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Tech|Virginia Tech]]. He has been an editor or staff writer at The New Yorker, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harper%27s_Magazine|Harper's Magazine]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_Republic|The New Republic]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_National_Interest|The National Interest]]. Lind has published a number of books on U.S. history, political economy, foreign policy and politics[Michael, McKinsey Quarterly, “The right way to invest in infrastructure,” December 2009, [[http://mkqpreview1.qdweb.net/The_right_way_to_invest_in_infrastructure_2484]], DKP]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Along with advanced telecommunications, the low cost and reliability of freight transportation in the United States have been critical to the country’s economic success. But America’s failure to modernize its overloaded freight transportation infrastructure—chiefly the railroad network and highways used by [[http://mkqpreview1.qdweb.net/The_right_way_to_invest_in_infrastructure_2484|trucks]], but also inland waterways, ports, and airports—is imposing costs on American efficiency. As a result of congestion (highway delays, for instance), the penalty on American growth exacted by logistics costs rose from 8.6 percent of GDP in 2003 to 10.1 percent in 2007, even before …. r long-term job creation in industries such as manufacturing and construction, currently two of theworst hit by unemployment.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prefer empirical validity—ontological approaches to IR lead to policy paralysis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Owen 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">(David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium, Vol 31, No 3)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 2.66667px;">”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;"> often signals this philosophical turn’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 2.66667px;">such a</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">philosophical</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 2.66667px;">turn is not without its dangers</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">and I will briefly mention three before turning to consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that it has an inbuilt tendency to prioritise issues of ontology and epistemology over explanatory and/or interpretive power as if the latter two were merely a simple function of the former. But while the explanatory and/or interpretive power of a theoretical account is not wholly independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), it is by no means clear that it is, in contrast, wholly dependent on these philosophical commitments</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 2.66667px;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;"> Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 2.66667px;">It </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">may, of course, be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful in accounting for this class of problems (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) and, if this is the case, it is a philosophical weakness—but this does not undermine the point that, for a certain class …. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">potentially vicious circle </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 2.66667px;">arises</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


=Negative= 
==__Past 2NRs__== 
===Long Beach=== 
**Round 2** (Port Dredging) Loyola WD: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Capitalism K</span>

**Round 4** (<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Port Security.</span>) StVdP DL: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Capitalism K</span>

**Round 6**: (Bering Strait Critical) StVdP VW: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Framework</span>

=====**Gonzaga**===== 
**Round 1** (Bering Strait Critical) Damien FF: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Framework</span>

**Round 5** (Solar Highways) CDA CK: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Capitalism K</span>


===<span style="color: #000000;">Stanford</span>=== 

**Round 2** (Bering Strait Critical) Damien LF: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Framework</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">**Round 3** (Marine Highways) James Logan GN: </span><span style="color: #ff0000;">Capitalism K</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">**Round 5** (Port Dredging) Dougherty Valley KK: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Politics/Case</span></span>

===<span style="color: #000000;">Berkeley</span>=== 
**Round 1** (Solar Roadways) Timberline BR: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Case (SLOW ROUND)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">**Round 3** (Icebreakers) MissSanJose TZ: </span><span style="color: #ff0000;">Politics/Case </span>

**Round 5:** (Icebreakers) CK McClatchy: <span style="color: #ff0000;">Alaska PIC/Politics</span>





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]