[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
This is the most recent version of the 1AC
==Advantage 1 is Econ== 
Econ low now but all that is needed is a push
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LA Times 11/30/12 [Don Lee is an economy reporter for the LA Times; November 30, 2012; Third-quarter GDP growth revised upward to 2.7%; </span>[[http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-economy-growth-gdp-20121130,0,5731609.story]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">; AG]</span>
Company spending on equipment and software fell for the first time since spring 2009.
AND
in cash, funds that could be unleashed should confidence and demand grow.¶

We solve: Updating NextGen leads to economic growth and solve a future collapse.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">BLAKEY 11 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">President and CEO of Aerospace Industries Association [Marion C. Blakey, The future of NextGen, 02/15/11, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen]</span>
The House and Senate have each declared passage of a new FAA Authorization bill a
AND
give FAA the tools to keep our nation the leader in civil aviation.

We have multiple internal links

1st is stimulus:

2- Plan injects money into the economy
**NEXA 11** (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company “NextGen Equipage Fund” April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
In an important recent study, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently

Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

4- Implementing NextGen on a priority basis is necessary to ensure airline growth, US leadership, and economic stability
**Aerospace Industries Associations 12** (WHITE PAPER ON ENSURING JPDO SUCCESS, 4/09/12 [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf]])
The administration must move forward quickly with the investment necessary to implement the next generation
AND
broad scale will grow, resulting in significant negative impacts on the economy. 4

3- NextGen generates recovery through jobs, business efficiency, and congestion.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calio 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]</span>
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

Extinction
Kemp 10 Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center,
AND
and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.


==Advantage 2 is Hegemony== 
**First is China,**
China aggressively expanding airfoce now – new technology key to deterrence
**Fisher 11/19/12** (Richard Fisher, staff writer for defensenews, “Deterring China’s Fighter Buildup”, 11-19-12, [[http://www.defensenews.com/article/20121119/DEFFEAT05/311190005/Deterring-China-8217-s-Fighter-Buildup?odyssey=nav%7Chead]]) (Nanda)
With a brief, 10-minute first flight Oct. 31 of its second
AND
, while adding importance to acquiring an adequate number of F-35s.

US avionics leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaglen</span> Research Fellow for National Security <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Szaszdi 09 </span>
Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, [“The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security,” Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm] E. Liu
China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce
AND
crews and an adequate pool of replacements and well-trained new pilots.

Aggression escalates --- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.
**Fisher**, 10/31/**2011** (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/#slide1)
After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and
AND
with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?

Second is aerospace,

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NextGen boosts the airline industry – they’ll invest in other systems</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Laing 6-14-12</span> (Keith; national political journalist; The Hill; “Obama: 'NextGen' air traffic control system a 'smart investment'”; [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/aviation/166373-obama-nextgen-air-traffic-control-system-a-smart-investment-]])
During President Obama's meeting of his Jobs and Competitiveness Council in swing state North Carolina
AND
bogged down in discussions over the labor rights of airline and railroad employees.


Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GOMEZ et al 12 </span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy “Dependence on key customers”, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)]</span>
Demand in the aerospace market PCP’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Aerospace Week 10</span> (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.

US hegemony solves all problems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thayer 06</span> Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University [Bradley, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, December (lexis)
A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's
AND
, for the United States humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.

And, maintaining //a large power differential// is key—innovation is the lynchpin of hegemony.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tellis,</span> senior associate at Carnegie, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9</span> — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” //Global Asia//, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at [[@http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf|__http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf__]], Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 55-56) recut from Woodward
Second, and equally importantly, who wins in the ensuing struggle — whether that
AND
problems would invariably contribute to the conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals.

__And__, the pursuit of hegemony is __inevitable__—the only question is __effectiveness__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tellis</span>, senior associate at Carnegie, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9</span> — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” //Global Asia//, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at [[@http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf|__http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf__]], Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 54-55) recut from Woodward
This hegemony is by no means fated to end any time soon, however,
AND
material foundations of its power, and securing international support for its policies.

The transition independently causes extinction
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy -- or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

Next is debris
NASA doesn’t have the capability to track and predict debris.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heller, 1990</span> [Jean Heller, May 9, 1990, “Junk in orbit puts shuttles in danger”, St. Petersburg Times, LexisNexis)
At orbital speeds, a piece of debris the size of an aspirin could harm
AND
NASA has initiated a risk-and-hazard assessment for shuttle missions.

Aerospace structure modernization helps track space debris, that’s key to protection satellite systems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Aerospace Week</span>, September 11-17, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2011</span>. “Aerospace and Defense: Second to None,”
http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf
Space is certainly becoming more contested, congested and competitive. More than 60 nations
AND
our scientific knowledge and inspire our youth to pursue engineering and science disciplines.

Ignoring debris increases the risk of congestion, collisions, and accidental nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tyson 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rhianna Tyson, Program Officer of the global security institute, Global Security Institute, Advancing a Cooperative Security Regime in Outer Space, May 2007, [[http://www.gsinstitute.org/gsi/pubs/05_07_space_brief.pdf]], rn) </span>
Threats posed by and to outer space Threats to space assets grow with our ever
AND
false reading of an attack, governments may resort to using nuclear weapons.

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially invest in the infrastructure for Next Generation Air Transportation System in the United States.
==Contention 3 is Solvency== 
The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">]</span>
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bin Salam 12 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.

Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bin Salam </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the
AND
not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37

Jetblue is doing NextGen but is the only one- NonUniques all DAs.
**WFTV.org 12** (http://www.wftv.com/news/news/local/jet-blue-test-new-flying-system-orlando-internatio/nSGmg/
ORLANDO, Fla. — Airline and government officials announced major changes coming to Orlando International, September 20, 2012) Sood
Airport on Thursday. ¶ Jet Blue is testing a new system to track planes
AND
¶ It would also fly more than 5 million fewer miles per year.




=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===States 1NC=== 
Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should __.

Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt 12</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states)
The federal transportation program has lost its way: It is less and less about
AND
made whole, while donee states would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.
===Taxmageddon 1NC=== 
The United States federal government should make current tax policy permanent by eliminating tax hikes scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2013.

Here’s our __solvency advocate__: the counterplan __prevents Taxmageddon__—it’s __key to the economy__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foster 12</span> — J. D. Foster, Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, former Associate Director for Economic Policy at the White House's Office of Management and Budget, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Georgetown University, 2012 (“The 2012 Tax Policy Two-Step: Taxmageddon, Then Tax Reform,” Heritage Foundation Issue Brief #3599, May 9th, Available Online at http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/05/2012-tax-policy-two-step-taxmageddon-then-tax-reform, Accessed 07-19-2012)
On January 1, 2013<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, among ... it again in the spring</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__And__—uncertainty about Taxmaggedon is __already__ tanking the economy—failure to act __now__ ensures another recession.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dubay 12</span> — Curtis S. Dubay, Senior Analyst in Tax Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, former Senior Associate at PricewaterhouseCoopers and Senior Economist for the Tax Foundation, holds an M.A. in Economics from the University of Connecticut, 2012 (“Taxmageddon Is Slowing the Economy Now,” //The Foundry//—The Heritage Foundation’s blog, June 20th, Available Online at http://blog.heritage.org/2012/06/20/taxmageddon-is-slowing-the-economy-now/print/, Accessed 07-19-2012)
The uncertainty caused by Taxmaged<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">don<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span> cause </span>//a return to recession//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seabasing 1NC</span>=== 

Text: The United States Federal Government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.

Sea basing solves hegemony – Allows for rapid forward deployment and global deterrence
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perry, 2009</span>, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
Seabasing supports numerous aspects of America’s National Security, Defense and Military Strategies. This
AND
of the National Security, Defense and Military Strategies of the United States.
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bunn 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should develop a comprehensive preventative nuclear terrorism strategy as per our Bunn evidence.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That solves nuclear terrorism from the bottom up.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bunn 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]; Boyce]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> fundamental </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">key to success</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">has implemented the lessons learned. 6</span>
===HMT 1NC=== 
**CP TEXT: The United States federal government should repeal the Harbor Maintenance Tax.**

**Repealing HMT is key to sustainable SSS**
**Frittelli, 11**—Specialist in Transportation policy (John, “Can Marine Highways Deliver”, Congressional Research Service, 1/14/11, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41590.pdf)//JLip
Policymakers have been discussing the potential for shifting some freight traffic from roads to river
AND
shipping to such a degree that it cannot compete with truck and rail.
===Visas 1NC=== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should increase the cap on H-1B Visas to 195,000.**

**Solves competitiveness and economy - increases innovation, talent, and job creation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David Bier 6/17/12, </span>- immigration policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute- “H1-B Visa Quotas Greatly Restrain Small Business Expansion”; Forbes Magazine; http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2012/06/17/h1-b-visa-quotas-greatly-restrain-small-business-expansion/
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) announced this week that
AND
would increase innovation, entrepreneurship, and job creation, benefiting all Americans.¶
===CRN 1NC=== 
**TEXT: The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology should create an international administration of molecular nanotechnology. The CRN should establish a self-contained, secure molecular manufacturing system with a personal nanofactory to be developed in a closely guarded crash program. The personal nanofactory should be released for widespread use. All MNT capability should be administered by this international body with product designs being reported and tracked. The administration should include restriction infrastructure and a board of technology evaluators as per the CRN’s proposal.**

**CP Solves regulation and safety issues while boosting interest in nanotech**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Center for Responsible Nanotechnology in 8</span> **-** a [[http://www.crnano.org/about_us.htm#non-profit|non-profit]] research and advocacy think tank concerned with the major societal and environmental implications of advanced [[http://www.crnano.org/whatis.htm|nanotechnology]] (“Finding a Solution that Balances Many Interests ,” http://www.crnano.org/development.htm)
The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology has developed a tentative outline for the international administration of
AND
knowledge of capabilities and intentions to be published without giving away secret details.
===Guam/Pipelines 1NC=== 
**The United States federal government should:**
**- Invest in transportation infrastructure at Guam necessary for homeporting nuclear aircraft carriers.**
**- Offer to fund the upgrade of the Petroline and Ipsa-2 oil pipelines through the use of drag reduction agents and should offer to fund the construction of additional pipelines facilitating the export of oil from non-Iranian gulf producers that bypass the Strait of Hormuz.**

**Guam allows for strategic dispersal – solves your ENTIRE aff**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaglan, 1AC Author, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)//moxley</span>
The Navy also should look to homeport additional carriers in either Hawaii or Guam.
AND
for example, would allow ships to respond more quickly to unforeseen crises.

**We solve the impact of Strait closure.**
**Brito and Jaffe ‘5** (Dagobert, Prof. Pol. Econ. And Baker Scholar – James A. Baker III School of Public Policy – Rice U., and Amy, Wallace S. Wilson Fellow for Energy studies – James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy and Associate Dir. – Rice U. Energy Program, “REDUCING VULNERABILITY OF THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ” in “Getting Read for a Nuclear Iran”, Ed. Sokolski and Clawson, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub629.pdf)
Maintaining alternatives to shipments of Persian Gulf oil through the Strait of Hormuz will be
AND
demonstrating to the markets that Persian Gulf oil will still be made available.

**you kill whales**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peterson 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gordon, Capt. Gordon I. Peterson, U.S. Navy (Ret.) has served as the military legislative assistant for Senator Jim Webb of Virginia since January 2007. He is responsible for liaison to the Senate Armed Services Committee and oversight of military issues relating to all branches of the U.S. armed forces, the senior editor of Sea Power magazine since 1998, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: A Critical Assessment”, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]], Hemanth)</span>

Issue 2: The Navy 's proposal to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
AND
increase should the Navy homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Mayport.

**They’re a keystone species**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zimmer et al 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, Ryan Ferrer, Professors of Biology at UCLA, “Neuroecology, Chemical Defense, and the Keystone Species Concept”, [[http://www.biolbull.org/content/213/3/208.full]], Hemanth)</span>

Consumption of STX-laden zooplankton or their incapacitated predators can have dramatic effects on
AND
1985; Myers and Worm, 2003; Bruno and O'Connor, 2005).

**Spills over to cascading biodiversity loss**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McKinney 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Director of Environmental Studies, University of Texas, PHD from Yale, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false]], Hemanth) </span>

Are All Species Equally Important? With so many species at risk, triage decisions
AND
extinctions. Many therefore argue that saving keystone species should be a priority.

**Extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Daily** **11** </span>("Biodiversity Key to Earth's Life-Support Functions in a CHanging World," Cites Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg, August 11, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm|www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm]]
ScienceDaily (Aug. 11, 2011) — The biological diversity of organisms on
AND
diversity is thus a crucial factor in maintaining Earth's life-support functions.
==Disads== 
===Elections 1NC=== 
Obama winning now – perception key to voter turnout
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Leary 9/20/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2012 [Mary O’Leary, Special Writer to //the Register Citizen//, “Perceptions in presidential race will influence voter turnout, UConn poll director says” [[http://www.registercitizen.com/articles/2012/09/20/news/doc505b241dc9b03397311974.txt?viewmode=fullstory]] SS]</span>
STORRS – President Barack //Obama has//
//AND//
//stay home on Election Day//.”

Funding transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orski 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]</span>
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

Romney win causes China-bashing – causes a trade war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gerstein 11 </span>(Josh, writer @ Politico, “The GOP's China syndrome”, 11/22/12, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1111/68952.html)
Mitt Romney says America is at war with China — a “trade war”
AND
, while acknowledging that the anti-China rhetoric is “good politics.”

That goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Taaffe 5 </span>
(Peter Taaffe, “China, A New Superpower?,” Socialist Alternative.org, Nov 1, 2005, pg. [[@http://www.socialistalternative.org/news/article11.php?id=30]])
While this conflict is unresolved, the shadow of a trade war looms. Some
AND
people of the U.S. when their interests are at stake.

===Coercion 1NC=== 
The funding for the aff is coercively obtained -- the government uses its influence and strength to force citizens to finance transportation infrastructure.
**Rothbard, 2**—dean of the Austrian School of economics (Murray N., “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)/EM|http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)//EM]]</span>=
The State indeed performs many important and necessary functions: from provision of law to
AND
, he will be arrested or shot if he should continue to resist.

Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Petro, ‘74 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 48]</span>
However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - "I believe in
AND
every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.

Each new step of coercion must be resisted – it moves us one step further along the road of oppression
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Browne, 1995</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, Why Government Doesn’t Work, p.65-66)</span>
Escalation Each increase in coercion is easier to justify. If it's right to force
AND
-meaning reformers who would use force only to build a better world.

===Fiscal Cliff 1NC=== 
Will pass now – talks are posturing.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Politico 11-29</span> [By JIM VANDEHEI and MIKE ALLEN; “Inside the talks: Fiscal framework emerges”; 11/29/2012; http://www.politico.com/story/2012/11/84364.html?hp=t1_3]
Listen to top Democrats and Republicans talk on camera, and it sounds like they
AND
— and virtually no chance that doesn’t include their tax rates, too.

Transportation funding breeds partisanship.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/25</span>** (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

Deal key to avoid collapsing the economy—delaying the deal causes market freakout
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cox 11/8</span>
Jeff, senior writer for CNBC, “Why US Economy May Be Headed for Another Recession,” http://www.cnbc.com/id/49745604, AM
All the problems investors face—from a fiscal meltdown to the various economic woes
AND
react and act more like markets, as opposed to emotional roller coasters."

Extinction
Kemp 10 Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center,
AND
and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.

Successful presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hutchison</span>**, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">9/21</span>**/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)
Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a
AND
the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.

Middle East goes nuclear
James A. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Russell</span>**, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">9</span>** (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf
Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various factors: (1)
AND
the peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.
===Immigration 1NC=== 
**Immigration will pass now but it’s going to be a fight.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Politico 3-5</span> [Politico by By JAKE SHERMAN and KATE NOCERA; “Immigration talks gain momentum”; 3/5/2013; [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/03/immigration-talks-gain-momentum-88480.html?hp=l16]]; Boyce]
With the Senate moving full-steam ahead on a comprehensive immigration bill, House
AND
bipartisan and could ease passage through both chambers, according to this thinking.

**The plan costs political capital and is partisan**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/25</span>** (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**Political capital is still key---Obama’s leading negotiations with the GOP**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AFP 2/19</span> “Obama courts key Republicans on immigration reform,” 2013, Factiva
US President Barack Obama on Tuesday called key Senate Republicans, with whom he is
certified as secure.¶ Obama has so far declined to make that linkage.

**Comprehensive reform is key to Latin American stability**
Gittelson ‘9 (Citation: 23 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics &
In the alternative, should we fail to pass CIR, and instead opt to
AND
of cooperation can we expect in our battle to secure our southern border?

**Latin America instability causes extinction**
Manwaring ‘5 (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and
and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65
AND
Nuc terror, trade, emp
==Topicality== 
===T Physical 1NC=== 
Only targeting “hard”, physical objects is topical --- the Aff’s indirect approach unlimits
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cantarelli 10</span> (Chantal C., Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management – Delft University of Technology, et al., “Cost Overruns in Large-scale Transportation Infrastructure Projects: Explanations and Their Theoretical Embeddedness”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, 10(1), March, p. 7)
We define transportation infrastructure projects as follows: ‘Transport infrastructures include roads, rail
AND
defined in this paper by a minimum cost level of 500 million euros.

===T In 1NC=== 
“In” means __inclusion within__ --- “investment” must occur __within__ the United States
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Random House 12</span> (Unabridged Dictionary, “in”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t)
in<span style="font-size: 8pt;">   [in] Show IPA preposition, adverb, AND sketched in ink; spoken in French.</span>

That’s the USA
<span class="Heading2Char2">Encarta 7</span> (Dictionary Online, “United States”, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861708119)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U·nit·ed States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/Pronounce.aspx?search=United+States|y ntəd stáyts]] ] </span>country in central AND <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Official name United States of America</span>

===T Direct spending 1NC=== 
“Increase” refers to a __mandate__, not a __potential result__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">HEFC 4</span> (Higher Education Funding Council, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/1]]</span> 67/167we98.htm# n43)
9.1 The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the principal regulator to do
AND
. Indeed, the obligation could be considered to be ever-increasing.

“Infrastructure investment” is spending __in the sector__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jimenez 95</span> (Immanuel, Appointed Director of Public Sector Evaluations – Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group, “Human and Physical Infrastructure: Public Investment and Pricing Policies in Developing Countries”, Handbook of Development Economics, Vol. III, Ed. Behrman and Srinivasan, p. 2774)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Introduction and overview</span>
Almost by AND<span style="font-size: 8pt;">basic theoretical concepts underlying them.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">T Capital Expenditure 1NC</span>=== 

“Investment” requires __capital expenditure__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anderson 6</span> (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.3 Definitions</span>
We define (net) public investment as public expenditure that adds to the public
AND
1995; Sahn and Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).

That means topical plans must __add new__ infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Law Depot 8</span> (“Capital Expenditure”, 2-6, http://wiki.lawdepot.com/wiki/Capital_Expenditure)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Definition of "Capital Expenditure"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital expenditure is money spent to acquire or upgrade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (improve) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">long term assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as property, buildings and machinery. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital expenditure does not include the cost to merely repair such assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===T USFG 1NC=== 
“Resolved” proves the framework for the resolution is to enact a policy.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Words and Phrases 64</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Permanent Edition</span>
Definition of the word “resolve<span class="underline">,”</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">given by Webster is “to express an opinion or determination by resolution or vote; as ‘it was resolved by the legislature;” </span>It is of similar force to the word “enact,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">which is defined by Bouvier as </span>meaning “to establish by law”.
Federal Government refers to the national government.
**Hartley ’96** (John, “American Civics”, p. 39, Google Print)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The term federal government refers to the national government, which is centered in Washington, D.C.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">T Underlying 1NC</span></span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Interpretation and violation – “Transportation infrastructure” is __strictly defined__ as facilities of transport</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Musick 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Without concrete terms for discussion, disputes become meaningless and valueless, only once a consensus has been arrived at can there be any engagement.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16pt;">Kemerling</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16pt;">97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> professor of philosophy at Newberry College, (Garth, “Definition and Meaning”,[[http://www.philosophypages.com/lg/e05.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We've seen that sloppy</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> or</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to resolvethem</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> whenever we can.</span>
===T Loan Guarantees 1NC=== 
**Interpretation - Investment requires the government receive shares in the project, excludes loan guarantees**
Van Son <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lai and</span> Issouf <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Soumare 9</span> (“An Analysis of Government Loan Guarantees and Direct Investment through Public-Private Partnerships,” 4-3-9, [[http://www.efmaefm.org/0EFMAMEETINGS/EFMA%20ANNUAL%20MEETINGS/2009-milan/EFMA2009_0368_fullpaper.pdf]])
This paper compares two forms of government support: loan guarantee and direct investment through
AND
can be a bargaining tool and can mitigate information asymmetry when structuring PPPs.
===T Vehicles 1NC=== 
**“Transportation infrastructure” is transport networks, not vehicles**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GC 12</span> (Global Cargo & Commodities Limited, “Haulage & Transport”, http://www.globalcargogh.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=44&Itemid=132)
The field of transport has several aspects; loosely they can be divided into a
AND
of tolls or gasoline taxes) may be considered part of the operations.
===T Maintenance 1NC=== 
**Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lemer 11</span>- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])
What has been neglected in all of the analyses that I have seen is an
AND
public works agencies suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.
===T Military 1NC=== 
**“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Musick 10</span> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)
Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types
AND
those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Kritiks</span>== 
===Calculative Security 1NC=== 
Techno-strategic planning removes us from the consequences of our actions, risking nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bleiker, 03</span> (Roland Bleiker, Poli. Sci. & Int’l Rtlns @ U. Queensland (Australia), 2003, “Aestheticising Terrorism: Alternative Approaches to 11 September,” Australian Journal of Politics and History, EBSCO)
The complexities of terrorism, and of world politics in general, cannot be understood
AND
guided its strategic “logic” continue to delineate our understanding of security.

The affirmative’s depiction of the international system reflects an ontology of security that necessitates endless war –states must protect themselves from insecurity by violently managing the world around them
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke, 07</span> (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2 [Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, page @ http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html]
The epistemology of violence I describe here (strategic science and foreign policy doctrine)
AND
more sustainable, peaceful and non-violent global rule of the political.

Calculative thought spirals into nihilism – control over nature becomes an end in itself
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">de Beistegui, 97</span> (Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick (Miguel, Heidegger and the Political, ed. by K. Ansell-Pearson and S. Critchely, p.71, ASG)
What monstrousness does Heidegger have in mind here? In what sense can technology be
AND
“experiences” (Erlebnisse), which he flaunts as his “truths.”

The affirmative’s emphasis on quick-fix solutions ignores the root cause of their harms and ensures error replication –suspending our calculative thought is critical to re-engaging the ontological question
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Korous, 97</span> (Copeland winner, all around bad ass, Yale JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)
The thought that inhabits critique is not bent on achieving quick and efficient solutions.
AND
that rivers are not primarily stockpiles of potential energy waiting to be unleashed.

===Taoism 1nC=== 
Death and misfortune are inevitable – the joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – plans to save the world only bring more suffering
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Slabbert 1</span> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]

Dealing with loss Express yourself completely, then keep quiet. Be like the forces
AND
the more we tamper with it, the more damage we will do.

No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 98</span> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]

Why It Is Wrong to Resent Unexpected Changes In Chuang-tzu 18, we
AND
takes the morally responsible course of simply accepting the new state of things.

==Neg Strats== 
===Wake=== 

Round 2 v. Chattahoochee GM port security (loss)
1nc: states CP, elections DA, T physical, coercion DA, case
2nc: case, states CP
1nr: elections DA
2nr: elections DA, case

Round 3 v. Edgemont JN NIB (win)
1nc: coercion DA, taxmageddon CP, T physical, elections DA, case
2nc: coercion DA, taxmageddon CP
1nr: case
2nr: coercion DA, case

Round 5 v. Bishop Guertin DI port dredging (win)
1nc: elections DA, T physical, coercion DA, states CP, case
2nc: coercion DA, case
1nr: elections DA
2nr: elections DA, case

Double Octos v. Westminster BH gas tax (loss)
1nc: taxmageddon CP, elections DA, coercion DA, T physical, case
2nc: taxmageddon CP, case
1nr: elections DA
2nr; elections DA, case
===Hooch=== 

Round 4 v. Pace BH title XI (win)
1nc: seabasing CP, elections DA, coercion DA, T in, case
2nc: coercion DA, seabasing CP, case
1nr: elections DA
2nr: elections DA, case

Round 6 v. Pace BP NIB (loss)
1nc: taxmageddon CP, coercion DA, elections DA, T direct spending, case
2nc: coercion DA, taxmageddon CP, case
1nr: case
2nr: coercion DA, case
===Ohio Valley=== 

Round 2 v. Johns Creek DA nuclearism (loss)
1nc: T physical, T USFG, Taoism K, case
2nc: Taoism K, case
1nr: T USFG
2nr: T USFG

Round 3 v. University Prep DR roman roads (win)
1nc: T capital expenditure, coercion DA, fiscal cliff DA, calculative security K, case
2nc: T capital expenditure, calculative security K, case
1nr: fiscal cliff DA, case
2nr: calculative security K

Round 6 v. Niles West PN port security (loss)
1nc: T physical, coercion DA, fiscal cliff DA, case
2nc: case
1nr: fiscal cliff DA
2nr: fiscal cliff DA, case
===JV State=== 

Round 1 v. Sequoyah LM HSR (win)
1nc: T-maintenance, coercion DA, Immigration Ptx, States CP, case
2nc: coercion DA, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case

Round 3 v. Hooch RS Port Security (win)
1nc: T-underlying, coercion DA, Immigration Ptx, Bunn CP, case
2nc: coercion DA, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case

Round 5 v. Westminster AO Port Dredging (win)
1nc: coercion DA, Immigration Ptx, Seabasing CP, case
2nc: seabasing CP, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case

Semis v. Pace LS Title XI (loss)
1nc: T-loan guarantees, T-vehicles, coercion DA, Immigration Ptx, HMT CP, case
2nc: HMT CP, coercion DA, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case
===GFCA State=== 

Round 2 v. Marist AB Port Security (win)
1nc: T-underlying, Visas CP, calculative security K, Immigration Ptx, case
2nc: T, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case

Round 3 v. Hooch KL Nanotech (loss)
1nc: T-maintenance, CRN CP, Immigration Ptx, coercion DA, case
2nc: coercion DA, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: Ptx, case

Round 5 v. Milton GV Mayport (win)
1nc: T-military, Guam/Pipelines CP, Immigration Ptx, case
2nc: CP, case
1nr: Ptx
2nr: CP
=Contact= 
alanhesu@gmail.com
aditya.sood2@gmail.com
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]