[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grapevine AFF</span>**=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In order to value something, you must also value what makes that valuation possible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Uyl & Rasmussen 81</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas Den Uyl is a Professor of Philosophy at Bellarmine College Douglas Rasmussen is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, “Reading Nozick” p. 245</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In so far as one…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">which makes valuation possible</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible</span>
<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seeley 86</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">In moral reasoning prediction of…under any</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> sane </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">moral code</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the standard is mitigating existential risk</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prefer this standard:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Normative uncertainty—</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humanity has a minimal understanding of ethics—there is a __high likelihood__ that we can advance in our moral understanding</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parfit 86</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press, 1986, ISBN-13: 9780198249085</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">154. How Both Human History…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">irrational to have high hopes</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means extinction is a side constraint on __any ethical theory__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Our present understanding of axiology…must prevent any existential catastrophe</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agent specificity</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A governments only obligation is to protect its citizens from harm</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Keenan 86</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> George F. Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Winter 1985/1986, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Second, let us recognize that…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">on the basis of them</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Governments can only base their decisions off calculations of harm</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gooden 95</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert, philsopher at the Research School of the Social Sciences, Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy. P. 62-63</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Consider, first, the argument from…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">each alternative possible general rules</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My advocacy is that the USFG should provide equal constitutional due process protections to both citizens and non-citizens accused of terrorism</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Detainment policies are eroding Obama’s international image</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parmara 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Inderjeet Parmara is a Professor of Government at the School of Social Sciences of the University of Manchester and a principal investigator in the AHRC Obama Research Network and Chair of the British International Studies Association, “American power and identities in the age of Obama” International Politics, Vol. 48: 153–163, 2011, doi:10.1057/ip.2011.10 [[http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v48/n2/full/ip201110a.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Most of the articles in</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">…which they claim to stand</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Joyner, 2009).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Absence of equal due process undermines US credibility and international support for the military</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Radack 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Jesselyn A. Radack, J.D. from Yale Law School, is Executive Director of the Coalition for Civil Rights and Democratic Liberties, “You Say Defendant, I say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process” Review of Law and Social Change, Vol. 29:525, 2005</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The revolving door between the…danger of similar treatment later</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.”135 </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perception is key---denial of due process is destroying our perceived legitimacy and causing others to resist US primacy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Walt, Prof. of IR @ Harvard, 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen M. Walt is Academic Dean and Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, “Taming American Power” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 84, No. 5, September-October, 2005, p. 105-120, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031709]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Attacking U.S. legitimacy is</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> also…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">U</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">even more</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">International support is critical to maintaining military supremacy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nash, Sr. Fellow @ CFR, 2k</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> William L. Nash is the General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations and was a fellow and visiting lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University, and a military consultant to ABC News, “The ICC and the Deployment of U.S. Armed Forces” in “The United States and the International Criminal Court” Ed. Sarah Sewall and Carl Kaysen, Published by Rowman & Littlefield, 2000 [[http://www.amacad.org/publications/icc9.aspx]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Judging from recent experiences, the…U.S. position toward the ICC.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US decline causes extinction---collapse of democracy, free trade and great power conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kagan, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">If</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> all of </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">this sounds…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">American order came into being. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perceived legitimacy is the key internal link to preventing terrorism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lunday & Rishikof 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, [[http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy of action is a…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">in the war against terrorism.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of international support kills counter terrorism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Byman 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2, March - April 2006, p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Civilian courts are empirically more effective at getting intelligence from terrorists---detentions without due process eliminates the incentive to cooperate</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gude 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Ken Gude is the Chief of Staff and Vice President at the Center for American Progress, where he works closely with CAP President Neera Tanden to communicate strategic decisions and coordinate policy development and also leads several of the organization’s policy initiatives and projects, “Criminal Courts Are Tougher on Terrorists than Military Detention” Center for American Progress, January 20, 2010,[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/security/news/2010/01/20/7207/criminal-courts-are-tougher-on-terrorists-than-military-detention/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Access to lawyers doesn’t restrict…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">their chances of being released</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Negative== 
===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorism DA</span>**=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We are currently winning the war on terror but there are still threats</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zuckerman 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Jessica Zuckerman is a research associate in The Heritage Foundation’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies where she studies homeland security, “Most Americans Agree: War on Terrorism Not Yet Won” Heritage Foundation, April 30, 2012, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2012/04/30/most-americans-agree-war-on-terrorism-not-yet-won/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It’s good to see that…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">nation continue to remain vigilant</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Equal due process protections cause terrorism---multiple reasons</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Howes, Prof. of Pol Sci @ LSU, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Dustin Ells Howes, “Conservative Democratic Thought and the War on Terror” Human Rights Review, 2010, 11:135–149, DOI 10.1007/s12142-009-0136-0 </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The position that military necessity…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">including the USA, as members. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff vastly increases the risk of releasing terrorists</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nickel, Prof. of Law @ Miami, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> James W. Nickel, PhD from the University of Kansas, is a Prof. of Philosophy and Law @ University of Miami, “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” European Journal of Legal Studies: Issue 1, 2007 [[http://www.ejls.eu/1/12UK.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Premise three is that the…government by exposing that fact. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff destroys international cooperation on intelligence gathering</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inderfurth & Massey 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Report prepared by Ashley Inderfurth and Wayne Massey on the workshop discussion of the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Law and National Security hosted by the National Strategy Forum, a non-profit, non-partisan think tank in Chicago that focuses on the issues and trends affecting US national security strategy, “Trying Terrorists in Article III Courts Challenges and Lessons Learned” A Post-Workshop Report, July 2009,[[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/natsecurity/trying_terrorists_artIII_report_final.authcheckdam.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">First, the disclosure of evidence…affairs challenges facing the government. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of international support kills counter terrorism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Byman, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism is a threat---recent uranium smuggling proves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GSN 8/1</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Schneidmiller is Editor of Global Security Newswire, “Nuclear Smuggling Shows Terrorist WMD Threat Persists: State Department” Global Security Newswire, August 1, 2012, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/state-report/]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">State Department</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> on…killed several Iranian nuclear scientists.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayson 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A terrorism attack rolls back civil liberties---turns the aff</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ignatieff, Prof. of Government @ Harvard, 4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Ignatieff is director of the Carr Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, “Could We Lose the War on Terror? Lesser Evils” The New York Times Magazine, May 2, 2004, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/pdf/MI.Lesser%20Evils.5.2.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Consider the consequences of </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">a…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">our former neighbors, our onetime friends.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Politics DA</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Florida and Pennsylvania key and Obama winning in both</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Silver, September 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Nate Silver, September 12, 2012 “Florida a True Must-Win for Romney” The New York Times,[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/12/sept-11-florida-a-true-must-win-for-romney/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Florida has a well-established reputation…</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">math will become more important.</span>__</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff causes a Romney win</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goldsmith, Prof. of Law @ Harvard, 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the Bush administration, is a Professor at Harvard Law School and a member of the Hoover Institution task force on national security and law, “Obama’s weak spots on counterterrorism are open to Romney” The Washington Post, April 26, 2012, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-weak-spots-on-counterterrorism-are-open-to-romney/2012/04/26/gIQAJ42zjT_story.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As the general-election campaign comes…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">too solicitous</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> toward Guantanamo detainees</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorism issues are key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pace 9/10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Julie Pace is a writer for Associated Press, “For once, 9/11 attacks play small role in election” U.S. News, September 10, 2012,[[http://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2012/09/10/for-once-911-attacks-play-small-role-in-election?vwo=501cd]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Despite the strong economic focus…security-focused events there, too.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Iran strikes</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dilek 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">9/20/11 Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” [[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">__All Republican Candidates Favor War...up with the unending wars__.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Hirsch 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Jorge Hirsch is a Professor @ UC San Diego “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21, 2005</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration has put…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">__arth's population many times over__. </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]