[[toc]]
=Stuff= 


If you ask me for cites after a round, I'll tell you to just email me because I always forget. I'll send them to you when I get time unless it's really pressing that you get them right that second. Also, please don't send your coach to ask me for cites.

here is my email if you need to ask me questions: sreddy13@brophybroncos.org. You can ask me on facebook too.

=SWISDIT/Voices= 
==Affirmative== 
===Guantanamo bay aff=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Advocacy text:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The United States ought to extend to non-citizens who are accused of terrorism and imprisoned in Guantanamo Bay the same constitutional due process protections it grants its citizens.</span>
==Negative== 
===Referendum(b) counterplan=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Text: The United States federal government should hold a binding national referendum over whether it ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens. The result of the referendum should be unconditionally implemented and enforced.</span>
=Meadows= 
==Racism aff== 
Neg must read theory and T interps in cx

v. morality
must be normative value because it's most predictable

skep is defense to the value and it's not terminal defense.

st. minimizing the effects of racism.

1. neg must prove racism is morally permissible to win framework because we presume the moral equality of people.

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Franco</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Jean (Columbia University), “Alien to Modernity: The Rationalization of Discrimination.” //A Contra Corriente// (“a journal on social history and literature in Latin America”) vol.3 no.3 spring 2006, p.1-16. <http://www.ncsu.edu/project/acontracorriente/spring_06/Franco.pdf> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Referring to an archive of</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">making their elimination less</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">problematic.”</span>__**

2. Morality must cohere with intuitions

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Parfit</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Derek (Professor of Philosophy, Princeton University), Reasons and Persons, 1987.</span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">We may not be able</span>__**...
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">some of these truths. </span>


3. motivational internalism is true

A: people would disregard ethics otherwise

B: need it for reason ethics otherwise agent reasons are not relevant

C: nobody would take an ethical action because there would always be an overriding desire.

nobody would agree to racism

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Memmi</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Albert. Racism. [it’s a book]. Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The struggle against racism will be long</span>...
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">4. Util requires minimizing racism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: racism causes extinction.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Feagin</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Joe.Fmr President-American Sociological Association, 6 (Systemic Racism: A Theory of Oppression, P. 9). Access to this card can be found here: http://www.euvolution.com/neoeugenics/systemic_racism.htm</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">"No person is an island;</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">and other major social oppressions."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: Minimizing the effects of racism is the only way util can make sense. We don’t know what a good or a bad consequence is unless it is specified what counts as a good or bad consequence. Aff specifies what a bad consequence is.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">5. Deontic arguments about autonomy are a reason to minimize racism.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: Racism reduces autonomy by causing mental stress to the victim.</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Murphy 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law, Vol. 36, No. 1, February 2011 DOI 10.1215/03616878-1191153 © 2011 by Duke University Press. Does Racism Affect Health? Evidence from the United States and the United Kingdom Peter Muennig Columbia University Michael Murphy London School of Economics</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Racism is thought to explain the black-white health</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">stress associated with racial discrimination</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: No one would will a universal maxim that justifies racism because it wouldn’t be universal since there’s no moral distinction based on race.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">C: Governments can’t be deontic because they can’t rationally reflect as a unified actor in order to create universal maxims because they are not an individual.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">6. Contracts require minimizing the effects of racism. Contractors need to be on an equal level for mutual restraint to matter and racism puts people on a lesser level. This is not a skepticism trigger, but it is a reason that contracts can’t link to morality unless racism completely gone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Contention 1 is harms and solvency,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: Universal healthcare would help solve the disparity in mortality rates caused by racism.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Leonard 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard|Dr. David J. Leonard]] Author, Educator Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2) </span><span class="arial11" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Posted: 09/07/2012 9:40 am. Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Universal Health Care:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> A consequence of America's history</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">some values I can get on board with. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: The transition to Obamacare will not solve the identified racial barriers in healthcare. Universal healthcare will.</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Hedges 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. America's Superficial Health Care Debate Silences Single-Payer Supporters </span><span class="itemdatecreated" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Monday, 09 April 2012 10:06 </span><span class="itemauthor" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">By [[http://truth-out.org/news/item/index.php?option=com_k2&view=itemlist&task=user&id=44723&Itemid=252|Chris Hedges]], [[http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/the_real_health_care_debate_20120409/|Truthdig]] | News Analysis. Truth Out. http://truth-out.org/news/item/8407-the-real-health-care-debate</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">We have the solution, we have the resources and</span>...
**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">be priced out </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">of the market.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">1. Rationing of healthcare is good</span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Singer</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. By PETER SINGER Published: July 15, 2009 Why We Must Ration Health Care . New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/19/magazine/19healthcare-t.html?pagewanted=all</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Rationing health care means getting value</span>__**...
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Then we can ask, What is the best way to do it?</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2. Aff may read new offense in the 1ar that links to the neg standard independent of turns to neg offense</span>

===underview module round 1=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">3. Must disclose disads with scenarios</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: predictability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: clash</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">4. defend rez on balance</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">5.interp</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Neg must defend a counteradvocacy with a text that contains offensive arguments that link to a standard. The advocacy must be defended unconditionally and must be advocated by an empirical solvency advocate.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> A-reciprocity</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B-topic lit</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Underview module round 4</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">3. Must disclose disads with scenarios</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: predictability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: clash</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">4. defend rez on balance so disads don't link</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">5. presumption and permissibility flow aff</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">6. Neg must concede theory is an rvi</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A: checks abusive theory</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B: Reciprocity</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">7. T is not a voting issue</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Underview module round 5</span>=== 

physicians like universal health-care.

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Brown 10/27</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Physicians say U.S. needs single-payer national health insurance program. Saturday, October 27, 2012. By: <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www2.tricities.com/staff/41122/|Roger Brown]]</span> | Bristol Herald Courier Published: May 10, 2012. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://weather.tricities.com/wx.php?pands=Greeneville,%20Tennessee&user=TRI|Greeneville, Tennessee]]</span>. Tri-Cities. http://www2.tricities.com/news/2012/may/10/physicians-say-us-needs-single-payer-national-heal-ar-1903697/</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The U.[S].</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">States must...</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">noting a 2010 report by the World Health Organization.</span>

=Glenbrooks/Alta= 
== == 
==Affirmative== 
I don't have a plan or advocacy text per se, but the aff I'm probably reading against you is a public option aff not whole rez. I have other affs too though. Just know dat.


==Negative== 


=January-February including Le ToC= 
==Affirmative== 
Here is a quote from one of my affs. Have fun.

"<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">I defend that rehabilitative drug courts, jail-based treatments, and reentry programs ought to be valued above retributive measures for adults convicted with possession of any drug in the U.S. criminal justice system."</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">I advocate that there ought to be a constitutional amendment to ban capital punishment in all parts of the United States criminal justice system under constitutional jurisdiction. Criminals who would formerly receive the death penalty ought to receive status quo rehabilitation in life without parole. I defend normal means fiat for constitutional amendments.</span>

==Theory== 

Some people have started running an interp about disclosing interps of theory shells. I think disclosing probably only serves to proliferate theory further. If you want to chat about what I think are some examples of topical affs and what theory/T I have gone for in the past before the round I'll answer questions.

==Negative== 

=March-April-Arizona state tournament and national qualifiers= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I will be reading this aff in some rounds at state.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government is justified in intervening in the 2013 Iranian Presidential election to overthrow the current regime, including the Ayatollah. They will support Mohsen Rezai to replace the current regime.</span>
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]