[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For Cite Request email: mazimi43@gmail.com</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NextGen Aff</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 is No Oil</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Oil prices will double within the next decade – our evidence is future predictive</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Macalister 12** [Terry Macalister – Editor at the Guardian and Energy Analyst, “Oil prices could double by 2022, IMF warned”, May 13, 2012,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/may/13/oil-price-doubling-decade-imf]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The International Monetary Fund … "stopped its declining trend".</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Perception is key- every change in the US market is watched</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Roberts 4** [Paul Roberts has written about resource economics and politics for numerous publications, including the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, and Rolling Stone, and lectures frequently on business and environmental issues. – “The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World”, pg. 95, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Within the oil world, no to …“ its mind whether to be bearish or bullish.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The perception of a change in demand will change the price</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Kosakowski 11** [Paul has a degree in Physics from Southern Connecticut State University, he began investing in 1998 and analyzes the markets from a perspective that includes both Cycles and Elliot Wave analysis combined with traditional technical indicators, such as MACD and Stochastics. “What Determines Oil Prices”, June 6th, 2011, [[http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH|http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Not quite. The price of … are sold (possibly sold short as well).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A decrease in US oil dependence collapses global oil prices**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Georgia 1** [Paul Georgia - Environmental Policy Analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, “Energy Independence: It Doesn’t Work,”[[http://www.cei.org/gencon/019,02192.cfm]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Corporate Average Fuel... foist upon the American people.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran is getting closer to developing a nuclear weapon – a new round of sanctions are being applied to halt their progress</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **CNN 12** [“Report: Iran builds, tests first nuclear fuel rod”, January 2nd, 2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/01/world/meast/iran-nuclear-rod/index.html]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran built its first … nuclear weapons program.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But sanctions won’t be effective as long as oil revenue cushions the effect for Iran – a fall in oil prices causes Iranian economic collapses and forces them to give up the bomb</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Sheinin 12** [Yacov Sheinin - President of Economic Models Ltd, “Low oil prices rather than an embargo will hurt Iran most,” 1/24/12, Globes,[[http://www.globes.co.il/serveen/globes/docview.asp?did=1000718550&fid=4488,]] Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The EU, which represents …stop developing the Bomb.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iranian proliferation leads to pre-emptive nuclear strikes between Iran and Israel, causes Israeli disclosure, and broader Middle East proliferation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Edelman et al 11** [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Given Israel's status …pressure, or all three.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Israel-Iran war ignites World War III – threatens all of humankind</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Coughlin 10** [Telegraph's Executive Foreign Director and a world-renowned expert on the Middle East and Islamic terrorism (Con, If Iran continues to defy the West, Barack Obama will be forced to launch military action, [[http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/]]news/concoughlin/100021911/if- iran-continues-to-defy-the- west-barack-obama- will-be- forced-to-launch-military- action/]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But, despite all ... into the 22nd.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Their prolif good authors are wrong about the Middle East – proliferation there uniquely risks war for multiple reasons</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Edelman et al 11** [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Were Saudi Arabia to acquire… with unpredictable consequences</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is Warming</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Warming is real and human induced – emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Somerville 11**[Professor of Oceanography at UCSD Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In early 2007, at the … well within this century.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND – It’s the most likely scenario for extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Deibel 7** [Terry L. Professor of IR at National War College, 2007 “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, there is …of life on this planet.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No offense – increase in CO2 will overall lead to decrease in crop production and cause global starvation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Strom 7** [Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, 2007 (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Agriculture is critical … their ramifications for civilization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every minute.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **TIACA 10** (The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, “The multiple benefits of modernization”, 2010,[[http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf]], //CJD)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current air traffic …and reflectharmonized standards.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Airline emissions are comparatively the largest contributor to climate change</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Hodgkinson 7** (David Hodgkinson et al, June 2007, Associate Professor in the Law School at UWA; Special Counsel with Clayton Utz, a national Australian law firm; and a principal of The Hodgkinson Group, a consulting firm with advisors located around the world. David is the co-author of the book Global Climate Change: Australian Law and Policy (2008) and the general editor of Australian Climate Change Law and Policy (2009). As executive director of EcoCarbon, a non-profit organisation, he manages an industry partnership which is building capacity in mechanisms designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He also leads an international project team working on a draft convention for persons displaced by climate change, “STRATEGIES FOR AIRLINES ON AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE: SUSTAINABLE, LONG - TERM SOLUTIONS”,[[http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A number of organisations … for all sectors by 2050.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Air-traffic modernization is modeled globally – US led collaboration tackles the environmental issues with aviation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **JPDO 10** [Joint Planning and Development Office, “Next Generation Air Transportation System International Strategy”, January 7th, 2010,[[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/InformationPapers/JPDO_International%20Strategy.pdf]], Chetan] *paraphrased for abelism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NextGen will deliver … models, and others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No alt causes – the plan solves other transportation emissions and air pollution</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **NEXA 1**1(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In 2008 GAO … and greenhouse gasses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Air pollution causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Driesen 3** (David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff Envt'l L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Air pollution can make life … both of these concerns. 5</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Plan Texts</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the Federal Aviation Agency’s Next Generation program.</span>**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 3 is Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The FAA authorization bill’s failure to resolve air-traffic-control issues non-uniques your disads but continues to freeze NextGen projects</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Poole 12** [Robert Poole – Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90”, February 24th, 2012, [[http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">After 23 extensions … deficit-reduction measure.)</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, the NextGen protocols work – a shift away from outdated airline control and fuel systems saves 1.4 billion gallons of airline fuel in the transition</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Gilligan 12** (Margaret, Associate Administrator for Avian Safety, Federal Aviation Administration, “AVS Work Plan for NextGen 2012”[[http://www.faa.gov/nextgen/media/avs_nextgen_workplan_2012.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our latest estimates ... conditions warrant.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">When fully operational - new air traffic control would save 3 billion gallons a year</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Department of the Treasury 12** (“A New Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Investment,” 3/23, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)/mat|http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)//mat]] NOTE: 1 barrel is 42 gallon 3000000000/42=71428571)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Investing in transportation …, over the past decade</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That’s 400,000 barrels per day</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Murray 11** (Ian, “Resist New Burdens on the Transportation Sector,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, 1/19,[[http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)/mat|http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)//mat]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Resist New Burdens on …offers a useful model.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **ALPA 12** [Air Line Pilots Association International, June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees,[[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Invest in NextGen to … establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Federal investment spurs industry adaption and overcomes all current stalemates</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Salam 12** [Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aviation system … manner if at all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Salam 12[**Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Most US operators … the larger industry.37</span>
=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===**UAV CP**=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should develop remote vehicles for the purpose of small vessel defense and port security.**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">UAVs solve for the affirmative</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Trent 10</span>** (The Center for Secure and Resilient Maritime Commerce (Michael Trent, Waleed Alsaedi, Joseph Bongi, Felisa Fernandez, Blake Picolo, Catherine Strez, July 28, 2010, “Satellite Applications for Port Security and Resilience”, [[http://www.stevens.edu/csr/fileadmin/csr/SRI_Papers_Presentations/SatelliteTeam_Final_SRI2010Report_.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Future research …cost-effective</span>

===EIS CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should [insert plan] subject to completion of a binding environmental impact assessment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Resolved - Firm in purpose or intent</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dictionary.com** [http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">firm in purpose or intent; determined.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, impact statement ensures plan does not have devastating effect on environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Wexler 8** (Lesley, Professor of Law – Florida State University and Former Debater – University of Michigan, “Human Rights Impact Assessments: An Immigration Case Study”, Georgetown Immigration Law Journal, 22 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 285, Winter, Lexis)sbl</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Under the National Environmental Protection Act ...e of reasonable alternatives. n104</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Environment DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Transportation infrastructure jacks the environment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rodrigue 98 </span>**(Note: Copywrite runs from 1998 to 2012—website provides no date of publication) Dr. Jean-Paul Rodrigue, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.hofstra.edu/Academics/Colleges/HCLAS/GEOG/index.html|Dept. of Global Studies & Geography ]]</span>, Hofstra University, New York, USA “Pollutants Emitted by Transport Systems (Air, Water and Noise),” The Geography of Transport Systems, Accessed online at <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch8en/appl8en/ch8a2en.html]]</span>, Accessed online at 7/9/12)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; text-align: start;">3. Dimensions Transportation activities support increasing … affecting the built heritage.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 20px; line-height: 27.27272605895996px;">Elections</span>== 
===**Obama Good- Iran Strikes (Wake)**=== 

**(uniqueness)**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Orski ‘12</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finding the resources … and far between.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even tiny shifts matter – our link is low threshold and linear</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Silver, 12** (Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical modelshttp://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The last thing to …odds at the margin.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">GOP wins makes strikes against Iran inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dilek 11** (Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” [[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prepare yourself my … international challenge.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and terrorist attacks.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Russell -09** (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran’s response … potential “Armageddon” scenario.</span>

===October Surprise DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Obama is doing fine in the polls now – but a sharp decrease in popularity causes him to launch an October Surprise on Iran to distract from the economy and hold onto his presidency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Siegel 8-13</span>** [Bill Siegel – Contributing Editor of Family Security Matters, the author of The Control Factor - Our Struggle to See the True Threat published by Hamilton Books. “Can You Guess the October Surprise?” August 13th, 2012, [[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/detail/can-you-guess-the-october-surprise]], Chetan]

One should never … sold to America.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Orski ‘12</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finding the resources … and far between.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">US attack on Iran spurs terrorism, NPT collapse, global prolif and war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Hirsch 6</span>** [Jorge Hirsch is a professor of Physics at the University of California at San Diego. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and an organizer of a recent petition, circulated among leading physicists, opposing the new nuclear weapons policies adopted by the US in the past 5 years. He is a frequent commentator on Iran and nuclear weapons “Nuking Iran,” Znet, 4/10, [[http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]]]

Iran is likely to … anybody has prevailed.
==Strategy== 
===Wake Forest=== 
**Round 1 vs. Reservoir AS** (Intelligent Transportation Systems)

1NC: Cap. K, Ableism K (Visualize), Elections DA, Heg Bad
2NC: Cap. K
1NR: Elections DA, Case
2NR: Cap, K, Case

**Round 3 vs. Hooch PK** (Port security)

1NC: Environment DA, UAV CP, Elections DA, De-dev, Case Defense
2NC: October Surprise DA, De-dev, Case Defense (Strikes)
1NR: UAV CP, Case Defense (MDA)
2NR: UAV CP, De-Dev

**Round 5 vs. Hooch LM**

1NC: Environment DA, October Surprise DA, EIS CP ,Case Defense
2NC: Environment DA, Case Defense
1NR: October Surprise DA
2NR: October Surprise DA, Case Defense