<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">[[toc]]
</span>
























=Contact Information= 
For negative cite requests, email Lia: lia.isono.1996@gmail.com
For affirmative cite requests, email Sana: sana.amelia.khan@gmail.com

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Wake Forest</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Text</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States Federal Government should increase its __[[#|funding]]__ for Port Security.</span>**
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the __[[#|funds]]__ to expand and adapt to __[[#|problems]]__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AAPA urges Congress ...........</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> at the federal level.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is Terrorism</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is Weapons of Mass Destruction</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">__[[#|NYT]]__ 6/26</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (__[[#|New York Times news]]__ service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MILLIONS of __[[#|cargo containers]]__ are unloaded</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> ..... Our nation can no longer risk such delays.</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The Department of __[[#|Homeland Security]]__ will ........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1,[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A nuclear attack by terrorists ...... we will all be losers.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria __[[#|University]]__ of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, ......</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War with Russia outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford __[[#|University]]__ “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk e..........we will encounter in the __[[#|21st century]]__.</span>

==== ==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">__[[#|GSN]]__ 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The inspector general for.......</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That causes extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – MA in Natural __[[#|Resource Management]]__ from Rutgers __[[#|University and]]__ Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, ........ HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>
==== ==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Potter 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">In the case of the United States, the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">r......</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">threat does not just reflect a commitment to retaliate; it </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> creates a commitment”.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 2 is Maritime Power</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A port attack shuts down naval power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Watts 5</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Connecting the continental ............</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">faced this threat before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience? </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted [[https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American ports</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, most notably Norfolk, Virginia and San Diego, California. Although the Navy has primary responsibility for protecting these ships, other port interests also have concerns about the possibility of terrorists damaging or sinking one of these vessels, particularly those that are nuclear-powered. Finally, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">17 ports have been designated “strategic” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">by the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportatio</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">n. 12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They are</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> so </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">designated because in the event of a large-scale military deployment, DOD would transport more than ninety-five percent of all equipment and supplies needed for military operations by sea. These ports are therefore vital to national security</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. If the strategic ports (or the ships carrying military supplies) were attacked, not only could massive civilian casualties result, but also valuable cargo and time could be lost, as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">In light of global economic and strategic realities, .........When the U.S. Navy can no longer do so, it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 3 is Military Power</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ports are key to overall military power – readiness and efficiency</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AAPA Seaports 3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. ports essential to war cargo efforts Rail infrastructure demands funding[[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vital national efforts .........</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">right before the American order came into being.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s only a matter of time before an attack occurs – the only question is when and where</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards” 3/9/2006, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">When it comes to port security, ........ make major new investments in security. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 3 is the Economy</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, a........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> that make up international trade.</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Attacks don’t need to be successful - perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, in this new world o.......</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes war and miscalculation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic ........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The Hill 9/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States is losing ground ...... and return the world to </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">a </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">sustainable growth</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> path.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So is growth and unemployment</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NYT 8/29</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Government data</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> released Wednesday </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> substantially reduce unemployment, which is at 8.3 percent</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic growth is key to prevent conflict</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">r........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> well supported by the existing literature. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity—facilitate commerce and contribute to national economic growth</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PR Newswire 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, the Port Security Grant Program h.........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> regional </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and national economic growth</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature,[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> .....remembered that modelling of a particular scenario is simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>
==== ==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The loss of investor</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">and creditor</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c.....</span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__negative feedback effects__</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>__



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Fritelli 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ships are the primary mode of transportation .....</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">filing process for U.S. importers.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Solomon ........</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> tolerate, harm to these foreigners. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bolstering security infrastructure at ports via the PSGP is key to solve</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Holmes 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(John M., Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles, Testimony Before The United States House of Representatives, Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency –Director and State & Local Witnesses”[[http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, port security has become a top priority for U.S. ports, ....... of these efforts as a result of grant funding reductions.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC New Trier</span>= 


==Plan Text== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.


==Contention 1 is Terrorism== 



Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">APA urges Congress to continue ...should remain </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the federal level.</span>


Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF, but WHEN the attack will occur

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ... chunk of this highly enriched uranium.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>



Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Ambassador Christopher </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Stevens ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> posing the threat of greater violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy (not read round 1)</span>

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bunn</span>__**<span class="styleboldunderline0">__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span>__</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">10</span>__** <span style="background-color: white;">(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Complacency about the threat is ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">r stolen nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>

Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> no longer risk such delays.</span>


Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland Security will ...radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">we will all be losers.</span>


Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war (only round 1)

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


Bioterrorism is incredibly easy

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 9-7</span> (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Capabilities for </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">producing</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> bioterror</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">ist agents</span>...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> live in an era of megaterror.</span>



Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">forthe ... will be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>


That causes extinction

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, ...plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>


New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the case of the United... retaliate; it </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> creates a commitment”.</span>



A port attack shuts down naval power

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Watts 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 Connecting the continental United States ... we learn from the experience?</span>



Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Navy has considerable ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on already overburdened airlift resources.</span>



Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic and ... indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>


Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack

John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port Security ... ports and other potential targets.</span>



==Contention 2 is the Economy== 

Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and... movements that make up international trade.</span>


Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence

**Clark et al. 7**. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">in this new world ... of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>



Economic decline causes war and miscalculation

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views.</span>


U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Hill 9/5</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States is losing ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">sustainable growth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> path.”</span>


Economic growth is key to prevent conflict

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, VallyKoubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> well supported by the existing literature.</span>



New security measures are key to trade and ensure __[[#|investor]]__, consumer and business confidence

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (EvanorPalac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can ... simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>


Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and creditor</span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">another round of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">negative feedback effects.</span>



U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Solomon </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Polachek</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, ..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>





==Contention 3 is Solvency== 



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Visualization and imaging technology solves</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As documentation cannot be ... emissions, which are then detected.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>



New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive... start-ups</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and agile retreads.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 50</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Barrington</span>= 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exactly the same 1AC from New Trier.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Glenbrooks </span>= 



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Text</span>== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.</span>





==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC New Trier-Contention 1 is Terrorism]]Contention 1 is Terrorism</span>== 







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> [American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">APA urges Congress to continue ...should remain </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> at the federal level.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF, but WHEN the attack will occur</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ... chunk of this highly enriched uranium.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html]])</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The bodies of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> Ambassador Christopher </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stevens ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> posing the threat of greater violence.</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy (not read round 1)</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bunn</span>__</span>**<span class="styleboldunderline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">10</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: white;">(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Complacency about the threat is ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">r stolen nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> no longer risk such delays.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland Security will ...radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">we will all be losers.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war (only round 1)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>



A much greater existential <span style="font-size: 8pt;">... encounter in the 21st century.</span>






<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bioterrorism is incredibly easy</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Allison 9-7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h|http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h]][IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capabilities for </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">producing</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> bioterror</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">ist agents</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> live in an era of megaterror.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”,[[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">forthe ... will be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That causes extinction</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9,[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, ...plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Potter 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In the case of the United... retaliate; it </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> creates a commitment”.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A port attack shuts down naval power</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Watts 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">1 Connecting the continental United States ... we learn from the experience?</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted[[https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Navy has considerable ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> on already overburdened airlift resources.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic and ... indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port Security ... ports and other potential targets.</span>







==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC New Trier-Contention 2 is the Economy]]Contention 2 is the Economy</span>== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”,[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and... movements that make up international trade.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">in this new world ... of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes war and miscalculation</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The Hill 9/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The United States is losing ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">a </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">sustainable growth</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> path.”</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic growth is key to prevent conflict</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, VallyKoubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> well supported by the existing literature.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New security measures are key to trade and ensure </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#|investor]]</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, consumer and business confidence</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (EvanorPalac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> can ... simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investor</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">and creditor</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">another round of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">negative feedback effects.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Solomon </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Polachek</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, ..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>











==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC New Trier-Contention 3 is Solvency]]Contention 3 is Solvency</span>== 







<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Visualization and imaging technology solves</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”,[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As documentation cannot be ... emissions, which are then detected.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”,[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive... start-ups</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and agile retreads.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> 50</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal level coordination key to successful security</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harrald 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>

__The threat is real... costly turf battles.__





<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal Support is necessary for Port security investment so that competing interests don’t overrun the spending. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Page 2007—</span>**Economics Editor at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.linkedin.com/company/cq---roll-call-group?trk=ppro_cprof|CQ - Roll Call Group]]</span> Editorial Director - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, Traffic World, The Journal of Commerce at UBM Global Trade, Halfway to Port Security, Publication date: May 21, 2007, Department of Homeland Security, Proquest: 6/22/12)</span>

__The Department of Homeland ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a year for port facility grants."</span>





<span style="font-size: 17px;">Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity - facilitate commerce and contribute to national economic growth </span>

**PR Newswire 11** (American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)

Since 9/11, the Port ... __national economic growth__.

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Ohio Valley </span>= 

Coming soon as well as negative strategies.

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>= 

==Strategies== 

===Wake Forest=== 

Round 1 vs. Bishop Guertin DI (Port Dredging)

1NC:
T- Transporation Infrastructure
Security K
NEPA CP
Budget DA
States CP

2NR: NEPA, Case

Round 3 v. Northview JK (NIB)

1NC:
T - Increase
States CP
Elections DA
Security K

2NR: Elections DA and case turns


Round 6 v. BCC BB (New Orleans Critical)

1NC:
Elections DA
States CP
Framework

2NR: Framework

===New Trier=== 

Round 2 vs GBS KK (Mayport)

1NC:
T-Military
Elections DA
Commissions CP
Security K

2NR: Elections and Case


Round 3 vs West DeMoines Iowa HM (NIB)

1NC:
T- Increase
Elections DA
50 States CP
Capitalism K

2NR: T - Increase

Round 6 vs. St. Mark's AP (NIB)

1NC:
T-Increase
50 States CP
Elections DA
Capitalism K

2NR: 50 States CP and Elections DA

===Barrington=== 

Round 2 vs. GBN NY (Port Dredging)

1NC:
T - Ports
Capitalism K
NMS CP
Food DA
Oil DA

2NR: Cap K

Round 4 vs. GBN RS (NIB)

1NC:

T - Capital Expenditure
Cap K
50 States CP
Federalism DA
Food DA

2NR: T - Capital Expenditure

===Glenbrooks=== 

Round 2 vs. Roseville Area PG (Critical Bikes)

1NC:
Oil DA
Heidegger K
'We' PIC
Framework

2NR: Heidegger K

Round 4 vs. Carrollton PG (Icebreakers)

1NC: T - Vehicles
Alaska CP
Fiscal Cliff
Virilio K
OMB CP
Oil DA

Round 6 vs. Highland Park PW (ITS)

1NC: T - Infrastructure must be new
PPP CP
Fiscal Cliff
Spending DA

2NR: T - Infrastructure must be new

===Ohio Valley=== 

Round 2 vs. Hawkens EW (Africom)

1NC: Politics DA
Security K
NMS CP and CMR
T military
T in

2NR: NMS CP and CMR net benefit

Round 4 vs. University School of Nashville ZW(HSR)

1NC: Politics
Cap K
Oil DA
Commissions CP

2NR: Politics and Case

Round 6 vs Marist AM (RAID Nuclear Security for Port Security)

1NC: Politics
NMS CP
Virillio K
T - Underlying Structure

2NR: NMS CP and CMR net benefit