[[toc]]
=worldf4michaelharris@gmail.com= 
=TOC FULL TEXT:= 
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">I'm going to concede. We'll talk about that later. Right now, just keep a good flow so we can discuss the case in later speeches. Onto the case proper.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">There is a reality, but it is inaccessible. Though events in reality do take place, people view them differently, hold them to different standards whether they ought to or not. Each person has a lens of the world which permeates their understanding of life and human connection. These lenses purport the very nature of things to be good or bad. The action of a group instantly ending thousands of lives suddenly is called genocide and is seen in a horrid light. While these lenses uphold humanity, there are other lenses which require caution when adopted.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">I advocate that the debate lens, is one such lens that warrants this hesitation. It attaches itself to unsuspecting young high school students, most of whom have never had a perception of the world to call their own, it polarizes the world into suffering and pleasure and it inverses any conception of good and bad. We view the use of chemical weapons against Syrian Civilians not as an atrocious act of oppression and the uncontrolled urge to resist such oppression among real people, but instead as excellent uniqueness evidence.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Part One is the Attachment of the Debate Lens.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">The Tournament of Champions is one of the most competitive tournaments of the year. It brings nationally competitive debaters from all over the United States to one intense weekend of debate. And while debate is already extremely competitive, always requiring one winner and loser, the TOC seems to enhance that. It is arguably the most prestigious tournament of the year for a reason, the level of competition. Since For debaters of this caliber, its not just some activity, but an important priority in their lives which permeates all other aspects. We are those who have dedicated the time and effort, encountering success on the national circuit, acquiring the elusive bids. We are the ones who have invested the most into the activity. And thus we are those most at risk for the addiction to debate and the eternal attachment of the lens. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">It is in the very structure of debate to force the lens on us. Debaters live in a mindset where wars are good and natural disasters present opportunities. Each case we write, if it is to be of any success, must end some conflict. Under consequentialism we must prevent extinction at all costs. Under deontology the will to end oppression overrides all other positive duties. As a debater must be capable of arguing for both sides of an issue, one is forced to provide a high probability of extinction or portraying the oppression and suffering of individuals in contrasting resolutional worlds. The more a debater can convince a judge that her opponent is likely to cause extinction or that his opponent is using people as means to an end, the more that debater will win. Even in theory debates, we are glad when our opponents concede the existence of a prestandard or nib, the so-called “abuse” which are happy to suffer, realizing it will win us the round on theory. An Incentive is created to find instances of abuse, or scenarios where more people are dying, where conflicts are erupting, where the “red line” has been crossed. The rest of the world holds their family a little closer that night, while we, disconnected, staring into the artificial light of our laptops, type cases, shells, plans, disadvantages with grins on our faces. We can not escape from the desire to win. Even Avi Arfin,a TOC debater trying to create micro political change to support women in the activity stated: “Because we are as a community so tied to success, success of the ballot, I think that me getting wins is important for trying to generate that discussion.” Even those who try to improve the community are still forced into the competitive nature of the activity. Arfin was glad when he found the statistics about the gender disparity in debate, since it allowed him to win more rounds, furthering his position. It was Emporia who exclaimed “We don't need a piece of evidence” and proceeded to extend uniqueness evidence about the Queorbodies and the Johnson evidence three times to take out his opponents education framework and win the round in that very same speech. Even those who try to improve the community fall prey to the attachment of the lens.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Part 2 is The Effect. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">When we are constantly rewarded for finding suffering, we start becoming excited when news arrives of Sarin Gas in Syria and Earthquakes in Iran. In debates, suffering is called bad, but in prep, we view it as good, we desire better evidence of people dying, greater statistics on the amount of people killed. There are at least two unique effects this has on a person.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">One. We perceive people as numbers, and we use others deaths to gain a win. This goes beyond mere desensitization. This is using another persons death for one’s personal gain, without any respect for the life they lived. We dehumanize, in the sense that we view them only as objects and tools and not as conscious decision makers like ourselves. We don’t spend the time to grieve their loss. By doing so we are sending the message that they are not worth grieving. At the very least the time spent to grieve them is not as worthwhile as the time spent to write disads night before the TOC. We place our desires first, and so reject the notion we are equal. We slowly become disconnected from the world, as people are viewed less and less as consciouses like ourselves, but instead more and more as mere objects. This objectification must be stopped since regardless of one’s personal ethic, the very notion that you should restrain your desires according to some belief in right and wrong acknowledges that people matter.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Two. We have hidden desire for what we believe to be horrid and atrocious. Regardless of what we think is bad, what we say is bad in our cases, we are happy to find evidence of that evilness in the world to fuel the uniqueness evidence or the Disad or the Turns. Turn: Punishment increases crime. Turn: Rehab is entrenched with racism. Turn: Criminal justice system is manifestation of the government’s power over death. We are happy to find evil when it lets us win. And while there is no reality that we may access, the inversion of our lenses is certainly problematic. Since regardless of our individual definition of evil, we want it. And regardless of our individual definition of good, we fear it. We fear that our opponents might find good evidence that rehab saves more lives than it harms. Thus any inversion of the lens is innately against our personal view of morality.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">In both ways, the debate lens ultimately undermines our ability to pursue our personal morality. And while I do nothing to posit the content of this personal morality, that does not deny that the debate lens prevents each of us from pursuing our own vision of a what a good person entails. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">And the most unfortunate aspect of the “debate mindset” is that most of whom it affects are unaware. It was not until last April that I noticed the lens contorting my perception of disasters and others misfortunes. I remember hearing on the radio Sunday morning that multiple bombings were reported at embassies and military bases. The number of dead was rising. I remember thinking how lucky I was to come across this story. I remember wondering why I was smiling, and the realization of the mindset that had been conditioned in me over three years of debating. A few weeks ago, a close friend told me a similar story. He reflected on an article about SARS in Syria, and the disappointment he felt when at the end of the article, only three had died and the situation was contained.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Thus Part 3: A Solution</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Simply being aware of this issue, being aware of our immediate reactions, can help. Many people misunderstand the position and think I am only trying to promote awareness for the problem instead of providing a solution. But this is not the case. Awareness is the solution! And that means this discussion, everything you write on the ballot, is the solution! Because its okay to be competitive. We're allowed to be proud that after a few hours of hard work we were able to create a really good disad. That's fine. The risks of dehumanization and the inversion of the nature of good and bad lies in not separating our emotions about debate with our emotions of other people. In other words, we can be happy with ourselves about finding evidence, while at the same time respectfully grieving the suffering of another person. This is a delicate balance, requiring constant awareness of our thoughts. And while this is mostly a mindset shift, it will manifest in other areas as well. The rhetoric we use will change. It will no longer be good and ungood or suffering and pleasure but emotive and connected to the individual whom one is representing in the round. Another change manifesting from this shift will be a more interactive community, one that empathizes and understands as opposed to acting on fears that a discursive position is actually a method of winning more rounds and that a person from another school is only befriending another for evidence. For example, there wouldn't be a huge reaction against case disclosure if we as a community were more connected and realized that competitive success isn't the sole motivator in our lives. And while this may not be the best solution, it is mine. Of course I want to discuss how to best fight this mindset. We have to discuss these issues, and must do so without the constant pressure of competition. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">So I have decided to concede this round. To be clear, Vote me down for several reasons:</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">First, I want to affect real change rather than simply artificial. In doing so, martyrs may be more effective. By sacrificing the ballot, hopefully others will see that I truly believe in this issue. It was Claire Daviss, who in responding to Arfin explained that, “The only way for us to truly understand that your message is important is for you to engage in self sacrifice.” Since I truly care about fighting the debate mindset, I am willing to give up this competitive success.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Second, If I do achieve competitive success with this case, possibly even making outrounds of the TOC, others would copy the case to achieve similar wins. They would be happy to find evidence of the problem in debate. And although the literal message would spread, the very practice of twisting reality to win would be ingrained within the movement itself.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Third, Too many debaters hit discursive positions they actually agree with. If we truly care about our discursive position, we should reward opponents who give up their time to discuss the issues we find important, rather than punish them. I WANT A DISCUSSION. The only way that's going to happen is if I concede.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Fourth, I would eventually use this case to win. Believe me, right now my intentions are purely to fight the mindset. But if I were to win rounds, eventually I would get to the point where my focus was no longer on spreading awareness and understanding, but instead on winning and out besting my opponent. In doing so, I would fall prey to the very aspect of debate I am criticizing. And so, I must force myself to not use this case as a method of gaining a competitive edge.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">And while concession ensures in-round change, it fails to promote significant change on larger scale throughout the community. I would like you to give me a 30 for a few reasons:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">First, competitive drive permeates the community. And if this position doesn't win, the only thing that will draw their curiosity is an absurdity, a radically different event. My goal is to be a high speaker and go 0-7. Being a high speaker with no wins will mean something. People will talk about it. Just imagine your own reaction. If you saw that one of the top speakers at the TOC had no wins you would recognize that something has happened. Be it error or a new position you would look into it, and discover a case about debate mindset. And this is EXTREMELY IMPORTANT! A discussion will help, believe me. It will force us to critically evaluate the problems in debate, and that is awesome. But there are still hundreds of debaters out there, who have no connection to what goes on in this tournament besides what's posted on debate sites. NSD Update is going to post the top ten speakers and their records online. In order to reach these kids, my goal is to be on the list so they can see my name amongst the 6-1's and 5-2's the only difference being that I have an 0-7 next to my name.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Second, Last year at the TOC 30's were handed out only 11 times or 1.9% of the time. They are less common than wins, and so draw more attention. Especially to the debaters who are worried about breaking and are checking everyone's speaks at the tournament, the same debaters who need to hear about it most. Many debaters at this tournament are getting 29's and some are getting 29.5's. I want to attract attention, and only the 30 can make that happen. And if you're worried about your kid breaking, don't! Speaks only function to determine seeding and breaks, but I have sacrificed both. I only desire the speaks to further the position I believe in.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Third, Low Speak wins draw attention. If no one else, you will at least catch the eye of one of the people running TAB, who may read the ballot and discuss it with the debaters she or he coaches.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Finally, AVI ARFIN SAID NO ONE WOULD CARE if Micro political debaters sacrificed the win for the sake of the message. AT THE VERY LEAST GIVE ME A CHANCE TO PROVE HIM WRONG. Give me a chance to show that there is hope for this community, that we can stand outside of the competition and realize what it is doing to us.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">And this will work. Ballots are posted online. The most competitive debaters, those I aim to reach the most, will be concerned with their seed and breaks and so will start looking at speaks. Debate blogs, such as NSD update, post all results online and the TOC is greatly followed in the community. Further, sophomores and juniors are attending the TOC, and so there is even the possibility of reaching out to future generations of debaters as well, creating good role models for novices and incoming varsity members in the years to come. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">And so during the time we would have spent debating, I want us to discuss debate mindset. We will retain speech times, but they will be more flexible, in that we can ask each other questions during our speeches. I now encourage my opponent to accept the win, and to discuss this issue among any others they may have. If you think I'm totally right, I speak the truth, let's have a discussion. If you think I'm completely off base, tell me. Still worth having a discussion. Let's do this.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">2AR:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">Finally, write out the reason for your decision to vote me down on the ballot, do not simply write Oral. This is a chance for everyone to read that ballot and recognize the actions I am taking to pursue my view of the best possible world for debate.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; text-decoration: none;">*In one of my rounds someone brought up if I had discussed this with Claire, Avi, Elijah or Ryan. I haven't, but I hope no one misunderstands why I bring them up in my case. I have nothing but respect for these debaters, I simply use them as popular examples of how most micro political positions ask for the ballot and so add to the competitive nature of debate.</span>

**CX QUESTIONS (& Disscussion Points):**
**Do you concede?**
I do concede on one condition. That we continue the debate with the same structure. There will still be points and discussions, but just about something different, and potentially something better.

**What If I don't want to have this discussion?**
Well I won't concede and we will be forced to stay here. And then at the end of my 2AR I will concede again.

**Do you think that by voluntarily being here and taking away the opportunity from someone else who wanted to compete negatively affects the debate community?**
I really don't, for two main reasons. First, I am trying to influence the most competitive group of debaters, and I think the TOC is a unique experience mainly because the level of competition. Second, I think that someone who is obsessing over the TOC and would do anything to compete would detract from the positive aspects of the activity I am trying to promote. And remeber, I WANT to be here. I WANT to go to all my rounds. I'm not just walking around despairing and refusing to talk to my opponent. I am trying to use this opportunity to effect change.

**Do I get high speaks?**
I don't speak to that in my case and for a reason. As stated in the case, Low speak wins draw attention. However, double 30 would also attract attention, so as far as furthering the message there is no real unique effect. I am personally uncomfortable asking for high speaks, but I think that by not going for the win it is an acceptable approach. As far as your speaks, I am sure that if you really invest in this discussion, the judge will reward you, and I am completely fine with that. I would actually encourage the judge to reward an engaging discussion. However, blatantly telling the judge to also give you speaks I don't think is the best approach, and I believe that it would only serve as further proof that we as a community are so addicted to debate. And so I implore you to resist the urge to make this kind of argument.

**Why high speaks? Aren't you falling into your own criticism of competitive debate?**
Remember, I am not criticizing competitive debate, only trying to spread awareness about some the risks involved. These risks are easily preventible however, so there is no need to destroy the activity or anything like that. Even if I was though, I think that asking for high speaks is a balanced alternative. Going for the win would be “too competitive” and would prevent discussion in round. However, going for low speaks and a loss would not spur any major discussion outside of the round (or at least outside the tournament) for people who have no teammates attending the tournament. I am trying to spread awareness both at the TOC and outside of the TOC, so I opted for no win, but still high speaks. Of course, if you think that there is a better way to run the position I am entirely open to suggestions! You can email me or just talk to me around the tournament.

**Is competition bad?**
I am not saying competition is bad, I am saying that there is a danger to excessive competition and that it shouldn't be the only motivator in our lives.

**What do we do with the rest of the round?**
The Round should still retain time structures. Still offering unique points on different issues, you can identify things you find problematic. This is supposed to be about the dangers of the highest level of competitive debate. You can still disagree with me, actually I encourage that so we can spur a discussion, but as for the win-loss decision- Yes, that is decided. As a side note, I also encourage the judge to engage in the discussion.

**Am I allowed to run other discursive positions?**
Absolutely! In Round 5, I spread my case in the NC and my opponent read part of a Speed K in the 1AR. We ended up having a great discussion about the merits of going fast in terms of incentivizing those with speech disabilities and those who aren't familiar with the english language to practice speech. We also discussed how spreading excludes others from the activity, and possible solutions- such as being more open to go slow when your opponent politely asks you. For example, I had an excellent debate with an exchange student from Finland (English was his third or fourth language) while maintaining a conversational speed, when before the round he said that he just couldn't understand when another debater spread English. I encourage everyone to read the round 5 ballot, Brentwood MR (aff) v Marcus MH (neg), which should be posted online sometime after round 7. As a humorous side note, I will debate you over the right to concede, and if you try conceding to further your position I will be doing some extending of the reasons to reject me.

**Should I play "Devil's Advocate"?**
I'm putting my name on this case because I think it is true. I know that's a weird concept in a debate round, but yeah I actually believe this stuff. And while I am open to having a respectful discussion in which you point out alternative conceptions of the way debate works, or the effectiveness of the solution, or the magnitude of the "impact" in the "real world", I hope that you actually believe it. I want you to say what you think is true as well. That way, this discussion will actually matter, and will avoid the artificiality most debates tend to have.

**Why not just end the round?**
Even after the win loss is decided, there is still time to be self critical and self reflective. And I believe the simple act of having a discussion after the competitive aspect is over proves that we as a community can care about other things than just winning. And that's what I want to do.

**It's round 7, I just want to have fun. Can we just do something cool like a super smash bros match?**
First, I think it's awesome that you just want to have fun. I think that this is a perfect example of debate without the competitive aspect. Of course, it wouldn't be good to have every round be a super smash bros match. There is merit to researching current issues and developing critical thinking skills. However, it is certainly portrays how we can be much more open and enjoy ourselves in rounds- as opposed to some of the very tense and passive aggressive rounds we are used to seeing. Second, I am still asking for high speaks since I am trying to reach out to other debaters not at the TOC. Although our chances for breaking are gone, my chance to have my name on the NSD Update list and to reach out to these debaters is still very real. Third, I would still like to hear your thoughts, as well as the judges, on the position. I still think there is a merit to spending maybe 15 minutes to discuss the issues. So I am willing to play with you as long as we can dedicate some of the round to this discussion. And not to brag, but it probably won't take long for me to beat you anyway... Fowlkin Puwwwwwwwwwwwnch!!!

**Why didn't you just run a model of a case that you think fits your ideal view of debate?**
I thought about doing this but rejected it for two main reasons. First, when we walk into a debate round we separate our beliefs and intutions from the arguments we make. And I beileve this is a very mature and logical thing to do, as noted by a lawyer watching one of my rounds who explained that he has to do this very thing every day when approaching a case. I believe that we should supsend our beliefs when we walk into a round, and even go to the point of arguing for the other side so as to try and understand them. This is very similar to the way we can empathize- we take ourselves out of our body and imagine the world through their perspective. Afterwards, however, we should return to our original position and beliefs, using that experience to build on to or change our beliefs. One of my problems is the inability of some debaters, so "addicted" to debate, to separate these things. When these debaters walk out of the round, they don't take back their feelings and intuitions, but instead view their lives as a debate where only logic and the desire to win dominates. Since it is the transition from the round to the world that I am addressing, it would not make sense for me to only run cases that I believe fits my view of debate in round. Second, even if running my model of a case in the round helps the activity some, explicitly stating my beliefs will spread the message more, thus increasing my positive effect on the community.

**Is there a problem with running DA's or K's?**
I am fine with DA's and K's, but I think focusing less on harms and more on solvency may improve the activity. For example, many K's contain a two sentence alt (if there is an at all). There doesn't seem to be a strategic advantage to running K's this way, as most people tend to attack the Alt anyway. I think that instead of focusing so much on the links and harms/impacts, we should focus more on the alt and how we solve the problem. Similarly, I am fine with a DA here and there, but I think CP's or at least DA's that result in giving more weight to a certain CP will help tremendously. This way we can shift the focus of evidence from finding suffering to finding solutions. Regardless though, I still think that remembering we are talking about real people is a necessary facet if we are to produce positive change in the activity.


**If it's true that we are already “good people” why is do we need to change/spread awareness?**
I have hope in the community; I believe we all have the potential once we are aware of the issue to beat it back. But unless we tap into that potential it will never manifest. This case is trying to let it manifest.

**How can we enforce this?**
I don't believe we can, which is one of the reasons why this isn't run as a K. I believe the main problem is simply in the way we recognize things internally. I do, however, believe that people are inherently good natured. Once they realize that they are excited about the possibility of nuclear warfare, they will take the time to adopt a proper mindset.

**What interested you in running this position?**
For a while now I have noticed the subtle comments people make when researching, and I talked a bit about these in the case. I previously dismissed these comments as just another weird aspect of debate. However, with everything that has occured in these last two weeks- Boston, Syria, Iran, North Korea, West- the easiness of falling into this mindset is greater than I have ever realized. And though I REALLLLLYYYYYY did want to run some crazy fun stuff at the TOC and try to go as far as possible, I decided that this would be better- for my own conscience, as well as the for the community.

**What can I do as a judge to help?**
As stated in the case, I am trying to raise awareness and the higher speaks I recieve the more awareness will spread. Besides that I think that as a judge you are limited. The problem I outline is mostly internal and so there is no ability to punish a debater for "violating" the case. However, as a coach or instructor, or at least as a person who has influence in the thoughts of high school debaters, you can do many things. You can reinforce the notion that the research we do is not of some abstract world, but of a real one, and that these people we read about are actual people who have lives and families. You can change the focus from establishing harms to establishing solutions, by using more counter plans than disads or by emphasizing the "alt" in a K.

**Is there anything we can do outside of this discussion that would help?**
Absolutely, and it works likes this: Debaters are, for some reason, extremely gossipy. We eat that stuff up. So next time you talk to your teammates or friends, bring up the position. Tell them it's on the wiki, so they can read it for themselves. Discuss it with them. I'm not asking for anything crazy, not even a pledge, just for you to talk about it and think about this problem critically. I also think that there is a HUGE opportunity for camps to solve this problem. Maybe you are going to be a instructor this year at a camp. If so, I would ask you to devote maybe 5 minutes during a research/evidence lecture to just say: "Hey, remember these are real people when you are looking stuff up. Take a sec just to understand that what you are reading is actually occuring to someone." And I think just by presenting them with the thought early on, this "mindset" will stop.
== == 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==