[[2012-2012 - Bishop Guertin (NH) - Michael Raposo & Luke Van Seters|Return to main page]]
=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
=Arctic Ports= 
==1AC Georgetown== 
===1AC Snow Fort=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Contention One is Defending the Snow Fort**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Russia currently controls all Arctic trade and transport - locks the US out of the most vital trade route in the world**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Treadwell ’11** [Mead, December 1, PROTECTING U.S. SOVEREIGNTY: COAST GUARD OPERATIONS IN THE ARCTIC “America is Missing the Boat”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Several sources report that international shipping of crude oil, … the same potential for shipping. Why don’t we?</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Our closest deep-water port to the North Slope of Alaska is over 1000 miles away**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Kroh, Conothan, and Huvos ’12** [Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">NOAA’s United States Coast Pilot notes that “there are … scale simply do not exist on Alaska’s North Slope.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Unchecked Russia will militarize the arctic by 2014**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Reiss 2010** [Bob, contributor to Politics Daily and Smithsonian and cites Russian generals and Naval war college, “Cold, Hard Facts: U.S. Trails in Race for the Top of the World”, politics daily, 3/13/10, [[http://agriculturedefensecoalition.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/4E_2010_U.S._Trails_in_Race_for_the_Top_of_the_World_or_Does_It_Many_Questions_March_13_2010_by_Reiss_Arctic.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Russia operates 19 icebreakers …The U.S. appeared as a sleeping elephant.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**3 Scenarios for conflict –**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**First is Russian Expansionism**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Russian arctic militarization spills over – lack of US arctic presence causes global Russian expansionism**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**SSI 11** Strategic Studies Institute Monograph RUSSIA IN THE ARCTIC Stephen J. Blank Editor July 2011 [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB1073.pdf]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">The Arctic has reemerged … proven reserves, the world’s largest.1 (See Table 1-1.)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**That triggers nuclear war**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Blank 2009** Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia … perhaps make wars of aggression on their neighbors or their own people.172</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Second is Arctic War**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Russian Arctic dominance leads to massive Naval expansion**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Black 11,** Stephen J. "Russia in the Arctic." Strategic Studies Institute. Strategic Studies Institute, July 2011. Web. 26 June 2012. <http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB1073.pdf>.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">The strengthening of Russian military … begin until 2015.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Causes nuclear war with Russia**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Wallace & Staples 10** (Michael Wallace, Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia; Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute; “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010,[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]])</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">The fact is, the Arctic … because of climate change.” 62</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**They’ll use bioweapons too**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Ruddy ‘99** (Christopher Ruddy, “Russia and China Prepare for War,” 3-15-1999, [[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/14/193145]])</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Nyquist states thatin a war … biological agents and delivery systems.”</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Extinction**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Ochs ‘2** (Richard Ochs, "BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY", 6-9-2002,[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">The failure of the FBI to prosecute >.. of leaders must not blind us.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Now is the key time to increase US presence and avert Russian military buildup – they’ll be unstoppable post transition**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Apps 12** Peter Apps, staff writer for Thomson Reuters. “Melting Arctic may redraw global geopolitical map.” Thomson Reuters Journalism and News.. Online. April 3, 2012. <http://www.reuters.com/assets/print?aid=USL6E8F29BD20120403>.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">If, as many scientists predict… escalate regional tensions.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Third is Hegemony**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Arctic ports are key to maintaining hegemony – lock out kills geopolitical and economic prosperity**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Cohen and Anton 2011** Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten Ariel Cohen and Anton AltmanAugust 16, 2011 at 3:12 pm(3) [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Moscow has an unquestionable … and the Arctic Ocean bed.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Heg solves global nuclear war**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Khalilzad 11** Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 [[http://www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024|www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Today, economic and fiscal trends … to make aggressive moves in their regions.¶ 4</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Theoretical and empirical evidence prove it prevents conflict**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Wohlforth 9** — William C. Wohlforth, Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, holds an M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University, 2009 (“Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE, p. 29-31)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">The upshot is a near scholarly consensus … the theory’s expectations.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**The complex and inclusive security models prove the accuracy of our method and the likelihood of an Arctic conflict**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Murray 12** Professor of Political Science @ Alberta Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">It is no overstatement to say that the end … state security strategies.</span>
===1AC Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in deep-water ports in Alaska.**

===1AC Environment=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention Two is the Environment**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Arctic disasters are inevitable and only ports solve–**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**A. Drilling**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kroh, Conothan, and Huvos ’12** [Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">When the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded …to an even greater degree.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**B. Oil tankers**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Struzik 2008** 10 JUL 2008: REPORT The Arctic Resource Rush is On 10 JUL 2008: REPORT Ed Struzik http://e360.yale.edu/feature/the_arctic_resource_rush_is_on/2035/</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But the biggest threat may … the infrastructure. It all boils down to a logistical nightmare.”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The plan is also key to overall Coast Guard Readiness – deepwater ports are the missing component**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kroh, Conothan, and Huvos ’12** [Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In the event of an oil spill, … most immediate operational requirement is infrastructure.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Leases and taxes solve costs**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bert 2012** (Captain Melyssa Bert, USCG, A Strategy to Advance the Arctic Economy, Council on Foreign Relations, February 2012)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">To enhance the Arctic's economic potential, the …and could harm U.S. national security interests.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**It only takes one spill to destroy the entire Arctic ecosystem – delay makes cleanup impossible**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Oke 2010** Researcher suggests Arctic oil spill would have dire consequences Friday May 21, 2010 By Chris Oke Yukon News [[http://www.yukon-news.com/news/18126/]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">They also looked at consequences of a possible … to Adams, there is no way.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Arctic collapse causes extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**WWF 2010** December 1, 2010 “Drilling for Oil in the Arctic: Too Soon, Too Risky” World Wildlife Fund [[http://www.worldwildlife.org/what/wherewework/arctic/WWFBinaryitem18711.pdf]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Planetary Keystone The Arctic and the … ecosystem for the entire planet.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**New Arctic ports are also a prerequisite to safe drilling – federal action key**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kroh, Conothan, and Huvos ’12** [Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Due to the need for specially …before beginning exploratory drilling in the Arctic.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Safe drilling and responsiveness are the only ways to avoid massive methane release**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Rennie 11** (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,[[http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Estimates of how much methane … worsen the climate problem for us</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Methane release causes extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Ryskin 3** (Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, [[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid … winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).</span>