=Contact Info= 
Check Westminster BP for neg arguments previously read.
=Affirmative= 
==Plantext== 
Plan: The United States federal government should establish a national bank to substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure.


==Contention 1 is the Economy== 
**34 signs indicate the US Economy is in rapid state of decline**
**Synder 11/30** – Writer for US Economy (Mike, "34 signs that America is in decline," PressTV, 11/30/12, http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/275433.html)//Bwang
The United States is clearly in an advanced state of decline. Many people around the …the American people spent 60 billion dollars more on prescription drugs in 20

**The US economy will lose trillions absent immediate, substantial investment in transportation infrastructure**
**Guilford, 1-18**
[Gwynn, QZ, “The US stands to lose $3.1 trillion in growth without infrastructure spending,” http://qz.com/45073/the-us-stands-to-lose-3-1-trillion-in-growth-without-infrastructure-spending/]
Unless the US invests an additional $1.57 billion per year in infrastructure—drinking water and waste water, … says that the US needs to spend $2 trillion more than planned between 2013 and 2020 in order to avoid the economic losses projected in its report.


**Economy is depressed now—fiscal stimulus is key—their empirical defense doesn’t apply**
**Delong 1/8/2013**—professor of economics at UC Berkeley (ROUGH TRANSCRIPT: Stimulus or Stymied?: The Macroeconomics of Recessions, Brad, quoting Paul Krugman, a professor of economics at Princeton, [[http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2013/01/rough-transcript-stimulus-or-stymied-the-macroeconomics-of-recessions.html]]) EL
Brad asked: “What have we changed our views about?” The inflation process is one area in … right now is absolutely disastrous. And that is where we are right now


**Double dip recession coming now and only deficit spending can solve**
**Harrison 1/14**-- founder of Credit Writedowns and a former career diplomat, investment banker and technology executive with over twenty years of business experience, regular economic and financial commentator on BBC World News, CNBC Television, Business News Network, CBC, Fox Television and RT Television, holds an MBA in Finance from Columbia University and a BA in Economics from Dartmouth College (Edward, “Why the US economic crisis is a depression and not a recession?, [[http://www.creditwritedowns.com/2013/01/hitting-debt-ceiling-us-economic-depression.html]]) EL
So where are we, then? We have left the fake recovery and are entering a …would like to be proved wrong. I don’t want a depressionary relapse. But right now, it looks like we are headed in this direction.



**We will isolate 3 internal links ---**
**First is declining infrastructure --- it is undermining the foundation of the U.S. economy** 
**Donohue, 11** --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)
As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of … the economy are monumental tasks. Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.

**This negatively influences the entire economy --- prevents a resilient supply chain**
**Little, 11** --- Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]], JMP)
The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways … value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.

**Second is stimulus ---** 
**Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment --- a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit**
**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)
But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent problem of the weak recovery and the … National Investment Bank bonds would likely be attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.

**The economy won’t recover quickly or sufficiently enough on its own --- A national bank will stimulate the economy and boost jobs** 
**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)
President Obama is in a bind. He knows that the economic recovery is fragile and …, and the efficient reduction of carbon emissions. Such an appraisal would thus take into account the benefits that such projects would bring to the broader economy.

**Studies prove the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus** 
**Tyson, 11** --- Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business (Laura D., “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy,” [[http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]], JMP)

Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious issue, America is now in urgent need of a national infrastructure bank to help … would also put millions of Americans to work in meaningful jobs. The time has come to make it happen.

**Third internal link is unemployment ---**

**This is triggering a major economic crisis --- outweighs the deficit and is best solved by the plan**
**Tyson, 11** --- professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton (8/18/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], JMP)

The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the jobs deficit, not the budget deficit.
Nearly 14 million Americans are … confidence and endanger the faltering recovery are high. These odds are not good for business, nor are they good for the millions of Americans who need a job.

**Economic decline leads to global nuclear wars due to diversionary theory- statistics are on our side**

**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the … the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war** 
**Gartzke 11** – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]

Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is … communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

**The plan will revive confidence in demand and spur a self-sustaining private sector recovery**
**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)

Such are the principles of our proposal, but what about the practicalities? Could a National Investment Bank …would also revive confidence in demand and so provide the basis for a self-sustaining private sector recovery.

**Transportation infrastructure investment is key --- boosts jobs and attracts businesses. A federal bank spurs critical public-private partnerships.**
**Tyson, 11** --- professor at the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley (6/3/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, NYT Blogs, “The Virtues of Investing in Transportation; Economix,” Factiva, JMP)

Years of underinvesting in the nation's transportation infrastructure are … investment decisions through cost-benefit analysis and public-private partnerships is one way to realize larger returns on scarce investment dollars.

**Will immediately boost employment and growth**
**Zakaria, 11** (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]], JMP)

President Obama has proposed a number of specific policies to tackle the jobs crisis, but they have gone nowhere because Republicans …
That moment of bipartisanship might actually be the biggest payoff of all.

==Contention 2 is Competitiveness== 

**Declining transportation infrastructure is decking U.S. competitiveness and hegemony**
**AGC, 11** (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” [[http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf]], JMP)

It also is important to note that the federal programs for investing in highway and transit projects has …, then so too must it be in the federal interest to provide – primarily in the form of state revolving loan funds – financing help to operators so they can meet those standards.

**Federal leadership key to reverse decline in competitiveness**
**Buchanan, 9** --- Associate Professor at The George Washington University Law School, and a former economics professor (11/19/09, Neil H., “Why the U.S. Government Must Invest in Infrastructure Now, Or Pay A Steep Cost,” [[http://writ.news.findlaw.com/buchanan/20091119.html]], JMP)

Recently, I returned from a trip to Austria, Spain, England, and Scotland. By coincidence, the first issue of … to push the world away in this respect, then it is inevitable that the world will, over the years, come to care less and less about the United States.

**This also wrecks U.S. global economic leadership**
**Alessi, 11** (9/8/2011, Christopher, “Banking on U.S. Infrastructure Revival,” [[http://www.cfr.org/economics/banking-us-infrastructure-revival/p25782]], JMP)

U.S. President Barack Obama is expected to propose an employment … senior fellow at New York University's Institute for Public Knowledge, in a July 12 New York Times op-ed.

**Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation**
**POSEN, 9** - Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)

In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might, … poverty, and conflict with other foreign policy goals like controlling climate change or managing migration and demographic shifts. If the US is to rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.

**Hegemonic decline causes great power war—empirics prove—conflicts will still erupt**
**Gottlieb 9/19** Ph.D. in international relations from Columbia, an Adjunct Professor of International Affairs and Public Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs, teaches graduate foreign policy courses at NYU, Former professor in international affairs at Yale (Stuart, September 19, 2012, “What if U.S. stops policing the world?,” [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/18/opinion/gottlieb-us-retrenchment/index.html]])//DR. H
But the question is not whether promises to bring home troops and reduce military spending … convince the world it remains unwavering. History shows that doing otherwise only raises the stakes down the line.

**Heg prevents extinction and is the strongest correlate of prosperity**
**Barnett 2011** – Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College, worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the DOD (3/7, Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads”, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]], credit to LDK)

Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that we stand at a crossroads … persistent reduction in battle deaths from state-based conflicts.

**The alternative is apolarity—that causes extinction**
**Ferguson 2004** (Niall Ferguson, Professor, History, School of Business, New York University and Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, September-October 2004, “A World Without Power”, Foreign Policy, http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3009996.html)

So what is left? Waning empires. Religious revivals. Incipient anarchy. A coming retreat into … more dangerous forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder.



==Contention 3 is Solvency== 

**A national bank devoted just to transportation will revitalize U.S. infrastructure --- it will be easy on the budget and politically palatable** 
**Lovaa, 11** --- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,” [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]], JMP)

Another creative funding idea that’s getting some attention lately is a national infrastructure bank, an … transportation network, but it will make good use of our limited public funds to vastly improve the status quo.

**Federal action is superior --- better evaluation, finance, and reduced borrowing costs**
**Thomasson, 11** --- Director of Public Policy, Progressive Policy Institute (10/12/2011, Scott, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape," Factiva) // NK

Myth #6: We don't need a national infrastructure bank, because we can strengthen state infrastructure banks instead.
Reality: State banks are an excellent tool and an …argument that the bank would somehow limit the decision-making power of state banks is entirely misplaced.

**National bank is key to send a strong signal to private sector investors --- facilitates public-private partnerships**
**Puentes, 12** --- Senior Fellow, Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings (7/16/2012, Robert, “What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?” [[http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-avenue/105017/what-would-infrastructure-bank-really-do]], JMP)

Third is that the establishment of an NIB would be a strong signal to the … development of the public-private partnership market.

**Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for large-scale projects**
**McConaghy & Kessler, 11** --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)

America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. .. the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

**Infrastructure investment declining --- public and private**
**Nutting, 12** --- MarketWatch's international commentary editor (6/1/2012, Rex, “Investments in the future have dried up; Commentary: Infrastructure spending down 20% since recession began,” [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/investments-in-the-future-have-dried-up-2012-06-01]], JMP)
WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) – When I was growing up in the 1960s and 1970s, the legacy of the Great Depression was everywhere: Dams, bridges, roads, airports, … by the Congressional Research Service. One widely cited estimate from civil engineers put the infrastructure gap at more than $2 trillion

=Negative=