[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
AFF vs. Notre Dame DB

Aguiar, 08 (Marian Aguiar, Associate Professor of Literary & Cultural Studies at Carnegie Melon, “Making Modernity: Inside the Technological Space of the Railway”, Cultural Critique #68, Winter 2008 pp. 66-85, Project Muse, rm)

**Once when I woke up, I noticed that the train was moving slowly**. It was dark inside the compartment. All the lights had been switched off. I looked out of the window and saw the red light of a signal glowing somewhere far behind. **We had just passed a station, but the train had not yet picked up speed.**

I heard a vague sound outside the compartment. Then, still half asleep, I saw the shadow of something moving. I stared at it for a while and then forgot about it. It was nearly dawn.

**Suddenly, I heard someone outside bang on the door of the compartment.** I turned around to look. **The door was shut**. I again heard someone bang on the door. It seemed as if someone was hitting the door with a stick. **When I leaned outside the window,** **I saw a man on the footboard of the compartment.** He had a lathi in his hand and a bundle over his shoulder. His clothes were dirty, and he had a beard. **When I looked down, I saw a woman running barefoot alongside the train.** She was carrying two bundles in her hands. Because of their weight, she couldn't run fast. **The man standing on the footboard urged her again and again, "Come on, climb up!"**

**The man banged on the door** with his lathi and called out, "Open the door! In the name of Allah, open the door!"

**He was breathless. "In the name of Allah, open the door! There is a woman with me. She'll be left behind…"**

I saw the Babu jump up from his seat, rush to the window, and ask, "Who is it? There is no room in here."

The man outside pleaded, "For the sake of Allah, she'll be left be-hind…"

The man pushed his hand in through the window and groped for the latch.

**"There is no room in here. Get down from the train!" the Babu screamed, and in the next instant he pulled the door open with a jerk.**

**"Ya Allah," I heard the man exclaim with relief.**

**At that very instant, I saw the iron rod flash in the Babu's hand. He gave the man a sharp blow on his head. I was so shocked that I couldn't move.** At first I thought that the blow had had no effect. The man still held on to the bars of the door. The bundle had slipped down his shoulder and hung on his arm.

**Two or three thin streams of blood began to flow down the man's face.** In the faint light of the morning, I saw the man grimace with pain. He uttered "Ya Allah" a few times, groaned, and staggered. **He looked at the Babu with eyes that were barely open, as if trying to ask his assailant what crime he had committed. The shadows of the night scattered. I saw terror on the man's face.**

**The woman, who was running along the track, was shouting and cursing**. **She didn't know what had happened.** She thought that her husband had staggered under the weight of the bundle he was carrying. Running beside him, she kept trying to place his feet back on the footboard of the compartment.

**Suddenly, the man's grip on the door handles loosened, and he fell to the ground like a tree that had been chopped down. As soon as he fell, the woman stopped running, as if both of them had reached their journey's end at the same time.**

**The Babu stood at the door like a statue.** **The iron bar was still in his hand.** His arm didn't seem to have the strength to throw it away. I was afraid and sat unnoticed in my corner, staring at him.

**After some time, the Babu stirred. A strange impulse made him lean out the door and look back**. **Somewhere far behind, next to the railway tracks, lay a dark heap. The train continued on its journey.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**===========================**</span>
**This is not the first time you have heard the story the Babu. His story is the story of our community, and the story of our world:**

**The dichotomy between the interior and exterior of the train mirrors the colonial separation of modernity and the premodern world. The train shuttles between corridors of violence, in its carriage ride travelers indifferent to the dereliction outside, passing through areas they would never dream of walking through. The security of cushioned seats and panoptic glass converts the outside world into a spectacle, something to be observed, but never engaged with.**
**Aguiar, 08** (Marian Aguiar, Associate Professor of Literary & Cultural Studies at Carnegie Melon, “Making Modernity: Inside the Technological Space of the Railway”, Cultural Critique #68, Winter 2008 pp. 66-85, Project Muse, rm)

The spatialization of the railway<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> highlights certain kinds of relationships; this nexus </span>pivots around the paradigm of inside and outside<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, one of the primary binaries constructing railway space. </span>Thissplit <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">between inside and outside </span>produces what Michel de Certeau calls <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"a closed and autonomous insularity," a fantasy that becomes important as the train travels through the back door of urban spaces many of the passengers would never walk through.</span> Michel de Certeau describes the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">railway carriage as a "rational utopia</span>" (110), and likens it to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"</span>a bubble of panoptic<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and classifying </span>power, a module of imprisonment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that makes possible the production of an order, </span>a closed<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and autonomous </span>insularity<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—that is what can traverse space and make itself </span>independent of local roots<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"</span> (111). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The space of the railway promises the order of modernity; </span>to be within the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ordered ranks of </span>therailway car is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**to be protected by the state and simultaneously the promise of modernity, a "rational utopia.**</span>" <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The division between interior and exterior becomes mapped as a temporal schism: what is </span>inside the train lies within a progressive narrative, while the outside does not. Anne McClintock describes this temporal order as the production of anachronistic space, which a privileged Western spectator sets outside of the space inside present time (40). McClintock depicts this binary as worked out through cartography, but one may find a more immediate and proximate signification in the interior and exterior of the train. The voyeuristicpossibilities offered by the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> structure of the </span>railway carriage, with its elevated view<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the world protected by a metal shell, </span>mirrors the position of the colonizer<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> who consumes that prehistory as passive nature. Here only one side is granted the role of spectator: **to be inside the train is to be inside modern times, while the outside space hangs in the suspension of prehistory**.</span> The lines of demarcation that enable that exterior space to lie outside of time or to be inscribed as a historical antecedent have already been made, however; in fact they were enacted in the very construction of the railway that transformed that seemingly natural world. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The division between interior and exterior space of the railway becomes a concrete rearticulation, a continual reenactment and reinforcement, of hierarchies already in place</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Combined, the image of the train as a national space and as one in which the interior was literally and metaphorically suspended above the outside local space were key to how the train became a site of violence</span> during India's partition. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The binary of inside and outside stands at the center of modernity's rhetoric of exclusion and is charted in the representational space of the train**</span>. The boundaries of the train carriage mark interior from exterior; they also reference and divide national space inside from local space outside. Of course the train was never successfully disembedded from the localities it traveled through. Although<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> these spaces of </span>inside and outside are marked<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as </span>separate, the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**boundaries between them—and relations between their occupants—are more fluid than they initially appear**.</span> One <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">need only think of the relationship between observing traveler and observed native, between threatening terrorist outside and vulnerable passenger confined to a carriage to reflect on an anxiety that points to this permeability of boundaries. The carriage might appear to be apart from the land it travels over and the passenger a distant observer of the outside world, yet they are part of both a national public space and a local space—and subject to its realities</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The violence on the railway during Partition exposes the permeability of boundaries** and thus the fallacy of this bifurcation.</span> Khushwant Singh's view in Train to Pakistan is almost entirely from outside the train, but other Partition stories focus on the shifting dynamics within the train carriage. Inside the modern space of the "death train," the convergence and renegotiation of the meanings that compose modernity were also thrown into relief. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bhisham Sahni's short story "We Have Arrived in Amritsar" presents a view of the fluid landscape of Partition from within the train itself.</span> Like Train to Pakistan, "We Have Arrived in Amritsar" <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tells the story of a descent into violence. **Violence initially appears as an omnipotent aura characterizing an unseen exterior**. As </span>the train<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> passes through troubled areas, it </span>uses motion to outstrip its perceived vulnerability (Sahni 119). A <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">key aspect of this story is the construction of the "rational utopia" of the railway carriage as **a neutral space suspended from the vagaries of the outside**</span> (de Certeau 110). As things deteriorate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> within the railway car, </span>itbecomes evident that the space of the carriage is not inviolate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. With a new awareness of the permeability of public space comes an increasing sense of vulnerability. Even though the carriage seems isolated</span>, when viewed from the interior of the car (particularly when the blinds are pulled down), the train is also part of the outside spaces through which it<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> rapidly </span>travels.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> **The dynamics governing that space also govern the interior**</span>. For example, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a tangible sign of the violence materializes in the guise of a frantic Hindu man and his family fleeing</span> something outside, perhaps a mob, with his trunk and cot. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When the Pathan aims a kick at the man, and instead kicks the man's wife, the communal violence "outside" reveals itself to be within the compartment as well</span>. The train dramatizes the geography of power in a way a fixed public space cannot, for it is subject to both an interior order and a changing exterior order. The dynamic inside the car begins to shift based on the location of the train as the power balance of the towns through which the train travels is mirrored inside the seemingly detached space. The passengers mark the communal allegiances of towns they pass: Sahni describes how the Hindu and Sikh passengers tense and the Pathan passengers relax as they learn the ravaged town they have just passed was predominantly Muslim (Sahni 118). As the train moves east, the power of the majority changes hands, and the dynamics inside the railway car echo and reinforce these changes. After crossing the border, one Hindu man, previously teased and cowed, crashes an iron bar down on an unknown Muslim man (his religion identified by his idiom "In the Name of Allah"), as the man and his wife try to gain access to the moving train. The mobile geography of power and the particular relationship between interior and exterior space enable this ironic turn of the Babu's character. A beleaguered man suddenly gains authority as they pass over invisible space: he is supported by an imagined nation mapped with national and communal identities designating who has power where. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The train carriage, despite the fact that it is set apart as a "neutral" space, represents the status of this outside world.</span> By setting his story on a moving train, Sahni presents the dynamics of mobile space, showing the permeable relationship between inside and the outside. His story offers a fluid geography of power, as the relation between interior and exterior space determine the relative power of Muslims, Sikhs, or Hindus. Sahni invokes a dominant narrative of the railway, the binary of inside and outside, that symbolizes the tenants of modernity.But<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> like Singh, he also </span>brings in a counternarrative—<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**the anxiety of the permeable boundary that lies at the heart of railway terror**</span>—and uses it to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**alter the imagination of modernity**</span>.Singh and Sahni represent another way Partition literature rearticulates modernity. Both authors' narratives play on the concept of an arrested journey, with Singh explicitly invoking Nehru's motif of a tryst with destiny as the endpoint of such a journey. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The train is often depicted as the emblem of a forward-facing modernity, and the railway journey as the symbol in a narrative of progress</span> (Freeman 29); <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in colonial rhetoric, the train is cast as the ultimate symbol of development</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Yet South Asian Partition literature set on the train often undermines if not challenges the notion of progress.</span> The period of Partition transforms the nature of that temporality; as both India and Pakistan gain national sovereignty, the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">image of </span>the trainjourney changes from<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> one of </span>progress to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> one of </span>perpetual reversal.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The changing timeline of modernity appears in narrative in the form of a **train that shuttles back and forth in violence and retribution rather than goes forward**. The </span>dynamic of the railway journey is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">thus </span>a pendulum rather than a vector <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">when the future down the tracks shows simply a reversal of fortune. This reversal confronts the notion of imminent transformation that lies at the heart of modernity's colonial narrative of transformation.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The train gives rise to a privileged condition of spectatorship. The centrality of vision determines the phenomenology of train-riding as an overtly ocular experience, the natural world and all those that reside within it are domesticated by the penetrative gaze of the voyeur. The world is commodified as a text to be possessed by the intellectual tourist.** </span>
**Aguiar, 2k** (Marian Aguiar, Associate Professor of Literary & Cultural Studies at Carnegie Melon, “Tracking modernity: Writing the rails of empire”, pp. 59-63, September 2000, ProQuest, rm)

Perceptual Space Finally, __for the traveler within the train, the space of the railway is realized as a perceptual space__: __the panoramas of the passing landscape are seen__; the vibrations of the engine are felt; and the sound of the train and exterior world are strung together into a seamless, rhythmic and muted backdrop to conversation inside the car. __Two material aspects create the perceptual experience of the train, **the body** and **the machine** **that contains the body**__. __These entities collude, hiding themselves beneath a perspectivism that dominates the experience of train travel__. __Together they create the ﬁction of a bodiless spectator who travels inwards—into the imagination—~in tandem with the rapidly passing scene__. __The machine disappears__, **__giving an illusion of transparency__** __as it catapults the seemingly stationary viewer on an invisible, predetermined path__. Like the dream that contains elements of the noise surrounding the sleeper, the intonations of the machine and the corporeal experience of the body seep into this railway imagination. **__This is a fundamentally modem process__**. Nazim Hikmet portrays this in his poetic epic Human Landscapes, and I discuss this representation in detail in Chapter Five, in this section, I will provide a theoretical frame to these representations by visiting the work of Wolfgang Schivelbusch, Michel de Certeau and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. __Historically the railway increased the pace of travel to such a degree that travelers in the nineteenth century__, according to Schivelbusch, __found the new mode to be both stressful and dull__. __Schivelbusch attributes this reaction to the loss of a foreground__: __travelers were so alienated from the scenery that they could no longer irnagine themselves within it as they passed by__. **__Conceptions of both space and time were transformed by railway travel,__** a point taken up repeatedly in the early discourse of the railway. According to Schivelbusch: “__Annihilation of time and space__" __is the topos which the early nineteenth century uses to describe the new situation in which the railroad places natural space after depriving it of its hitherto absolute powers__.” __Time and space were annihilated in that they were shown to be malleable,__ **__subject to a condition of perception__**. __The sense of distance__, previously ﬁxed to an ambulatory pace (that of a horse or person), __was__ suddenly __reduced beyond recognition__—a nearby village that was before “one hour away." an expression that merges temporal and spatial measurement, was now “ten minutes away." By the twentieth century, __the traveler and her imagination had caught up to the modem technology of the train__. __The disjunction between viewer and landscape still produced a sense of alienation__ (__as well as complicity__, __but this very alienation became a moment of self-reﬂexivity__, __of modernity__. __The spectator is aware that she is watching a landscape produced through the mediation of modem technology__. Ironically. __that very alienation became the inspiration for the free play of the imagination__. Literature shows that this mode came to be embraced in the modem age, and the aesthetics of panoramic movement marked the writings of Modemists such as James Joyce and Virginia Woolf. In The Country and the City, Raymond Williams represents the experience of modernity articulated by these writers as a perceptual condition.” In his essay “Of Other Spaces," Michel Foucault characterizes the present epoch along these lines: We are in the epoch of sirnultaneity: We are in the epoch of juxtaposition, the epoch of the near and far, of the side-by-side, of the dispersed. We are at a moment, I believe, when our experience of the world is less that of a long life developing through time than that of a network that connects points and intersects with its own skein.“__The experience of train travel__, as Certeau reminds us, __creates this sense of simultaneity in which the “near and far” become “side-by-side,” a series of juxtaposed perspectives__. __The modem traveler__, I would suggest, __may no longer want to place herself within the passing scene, for railway travel offers something even better__: **__the dream of the objective observer who possesses the landscape__**. __The ﬁction is perpetrated by the eyes__, Michel de Certeau tells us in his essay “Railway Navigation and Incarceration." __The panorama__, like the narration, **__creates and undoes a series of relationships between elements by placing them in sequence__**. __The seemingly single point of view belies a continuum of evolving perspectives__. __The frame of the window creates the separation necessary for this illusion: The windowpane is what allows us to see, and the rail, what allows us to move through__. __The first creates the spectator's distance: **You shall not touch**__: __the more you see, the less you hold__-—**__a dispossession of the hand in favor of a greater trajectory for the eye__**. __The second inscribe__, __indeﬁnitely, the injunction to pass on__: __it is its order written in a single but endless line: go__, __leave, this is not your country and neither is that__-—**__an imperative of separation which obliges one to pay for an abstract ocular domination of space by leaving behind any proper place__**, by losing one's footings ‘**__The domination of space by the traveling voyeur__**, in other words, __is paid for by abstraction and impermanence__. Certeau describes a kind of Faustian bargain in which __transience creates “dispossession__.” “the injunction to pass on," **__but it also gives the viewer the freedom to claim the world as a text__**, **__to become__**. Certeau’s passage is rich with possibility for understanding the position of fetish the railway journey has achieved. This fetish is particularly apparent __in colonial writings__, in which __the railway traveler experiences the foreign country as a cultural pageant of his or her own imagination__. For example, Jules Verne, in Around the World in Eighty Days, describes a train traveling through India, passing “picturesque bungalows,” “marvellous temples,” “jungles inhabited by snakes and tigers," and “forests [. . .] still haunted by elephants which, with pensive eyes, gazed at the train as it passed."33 **__The view is sealed from the nature feared by the colonial imagination__**, here the specters of elephants who retum the traveler’s gaze. One of the many descendants of this style of fantastic travel narrative appears in a recent article in the New York Times on railway travel in India, in which journalist Taras Grescoes stares out the train window and imagines “alighting in the kittenish Jhajha, the mysterious Motihari, or the jocular Harihar."34 **__For any railway traveler__**, colonial or not, **__the experience of panoramic perception subsumes other sentient aspects to the visual__**, __the perception of space__. __The train__, of course, __acts as a determinant of the perspective__. __The framed window introduces the experience__, **__and does so by cordoning off the moving world__**. **__The body also determines perspective__**, a point Certeau does not emphasize, but which philosopher Maurice Merleau-Ponty articulates in his vision of the phenomenological in The Visible and the Invisible. According to Merleau-Ponty, the body doubles in two aspects of one process: the sensible frames (or determines) the experience of the material, and the sentient experiences the material.” Placing this into the context of panoramic perception, we see that __train window and body act in complicity to determine what is perceived__. Echoing the ﬁrst aspect of Merleau-Ponty's process, __both train and body are rendered nearly invisible__ __by__ what Certeau calls __the “ocular domination of space."__ __The gaze becomes the experience most easily accessed__, __while the body and the train involved in creating__ __that experience are muted__. __Neither train nor bodies are rendered completely invisible__, however, for there is also the second aspect of the process Merleau-Ponty describes. __The frame of the window and the rail introduce__ what Certeau calls “__a slender blade__,” __inverting the stability between inside and outside__. __The presence of the frame interrupts the completion of the panorama__, __just as the presence of the rail reintroduces the subject into the__ __landscape__, in addition, __other corporeal experiences tug at the production of a bodiless subject__. Through vibrations and sounds, the machine reenters consciousness through the body at the same moment the sentient body itself becomes recognized, ironically", **__the body only becomes intelligible through the experience of the modern technology__**. In Chapter Five. I explore the writing of Nﬁzim Hikmet, who represents through his poetics the dreamscape of the railway in the cadence of the train. His work depicts the process by which the machine and the phenomenological body reinsert themselves back into the panoramic perception. Unlike Merleau-Ponty’s body, __the body of the modem subject represented in relation to the railway is mediated by technology__. "__The machine is the primum mobile__, **__the solitary god from which all the action proceeds__**."”’ Certeau writes. **__The machine, the dreaming traveler realizes as she jolts to a stop. has been beneath her all along__**.


**The history of modernity is the tyranny of the Visual. Anthropocentrism, ableism, ageism, racism, gendered violence, and all other forms of discrimination find outlets in ocular-centrism. The AFF asks us to acknowledge and interrogate the privilege that allows**

**Hughes 99** (Bill Hughes, Professor of disabilities studies in the department of Social Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, “The Constitution of Impairment: Modernity and the aesthetic of oppression”, Disability & Society, Vol. 14, No. 2, 1999, pp. 155-172, rm)

In Sartre’ s pessimistic project,to be seen is to be objectified and victimised<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span> The look freezes the object<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of its vision</span>. One is reminded of the myth of Medusa and its testimony to the monstrous power of the ocular.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The coercive power of the eye and its obvious pervasiveness in the play of social relationships suggest</span> to Sartre <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that intercorporeality and intersubjectivity are profoundly hostile and alienating.</span> Although Sartre examines the look in order to flesh out his explanation of the disturbing nature of existence and contemplate the horror of being as it comes face to face with choice, an exegesis, or indeed critique, of his phenomenological ontology is not within the scope of this paper. Rather, my concern is with the role of the gaze in the constitution of the social, his analysis of the violence of the gaze, and how this violence contributes to social processes of enslavement and oppression:<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> `We can consider ourselves as `slaves’ in so far as we appear to the other’</span> . (Sartre, 1958, p. 268). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To be subjected to the gaze of another is to have ones objectivity disclosed to oneself </span>or as Sartre (1958, p. 258) puts it,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to be `found out’ in ones objecthood</span> and become `self-conscious’. To look at, is to command a visual field, to oversee a `kingdom of ends’ , but to be looked at,is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to become an object in the visual field of another </span>to become<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> `</span>an object for another’to be constituted as a `means’ within a panorama commanded by another<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span> `I’ am no longer at the centre, but thrown to the periphery: `I am in a world which the Other has made alien for me … I am … in the midst of a world which flows toward the other’ (Sartre, 1958, p. 261). The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> absolute </span>freedom ofthe<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> solipsistic </span>self is displaced bythe<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> spatialisation and temporalisation imposed by the </span>gaze<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the other.</span> One is reminded of Wordsworth’ s view that<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> sight `is the most despotic of the senses’ </span>; a despotism which embodies the ultimate sanction: `I read in the other’ s watchful look … the gun pointed at me’ (Sartre, 1958, p. 245). Sartre is concerned with the dialectical play of power as it is manifest in looking at and being looked at. The child,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for example, </span>is subdued by the adultgaze<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and, in being looked at, is transformed into the object of the gaze</span>. In the act of perception,the adults’status as subject is substantiated while the child’s<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> status as subject </span>is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> threatened, </span>demeaned<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, exposed. </span>The child is infantilised<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. This process of objectification coincides with the tyranny of supervision and loss of freedom. The parallel with the panopticon as a system of social control based on surveillance through visibility </span>(Foucault, 1977a,b) is obvious: `The Sartrian gaze is epitomised by such functions as supervision and oversight that refer to the control of human beings by placing them into an embracing perspective of another individual or group’ (Weinstein & Weinstein, 1984, p. 358). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For Foucault, </span>the `eyes are instruments of power’ and `sight is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> not only vision, it is </span>knowledge and power’ (Synnott, 1993, p. 215) which, in modernity, is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spacialised </span>into a complex system of surveillance and self-surveillance<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>The latter refers to the process by which the ubiquity and pervasiveness of ocular techniques<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> produce `subjects’ who watch themselves.</span> For Foucault, the gaze (of the disciplines) is more manifest in institutional forms of domination and regulation (Turner, 1996, p. 160) than in the oppressiveness of intercorporeal relationships [4]. For Sartre, the gaze is profoundly socially constitutive and part of what he calls - in the `Critique of Dialectical Reason’ - `the praxis of oppression’ (1982, p. 721). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While it confers power on who so ever commands the visual field, it is the font of shame and humiliation for who so ever is objectified</span>. Indeed, `when the body is on display to the gaze of the other, it becomes a fallen object<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which is the original meaning of our sense of shame at being caught naked’ </span>(Jay, 1994, p. 289). To be looked at is to experience a loss of power<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and the feeling of the play of power on the surface of the body. Ones eyes are cast down as they flee from the eye of power</span>; be it, for example, in the form of the male gaze (Paglia, 1990; Wolf, 1990), the colonial gaze (Fanon, 1963; Sartre, 1982) or the medical gaze (Foucault, 1973). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Yet, in the same moment, </span>the possibility of resistance is evident<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>Resistance is to refuse to be seen as one is supposedto be seen by the eye of power<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> return the gaze and </span>transformshame<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and humiliation </span>into pride<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span> As Marx once remarked, shame is the fuel of revolutionary consciousness. For disabled people, the challenge to the eye that constitutes the `tyranny of perfection’ (Glassner, 1992) rests in the recognition of the social constitution of perfection as an aesthetic that arises from the carnal viewpoint of non-disablement. In the context of the support that he lent to anti-colonial struggles, Sartre addressed his French audience in terms which highlight both the cold, pure tyranny of the oppressors gaze and the revolutionary moment of its reversal: I want you to feel ... the sensation of being seen. For __the white man has enjoyed for three thousand years the privilege of seeing without being seen.__ It was seeing pure and uncomplicated; the light of his eyes drew all things from their primeval darkness. __The whiteness of his skin was a further aspect of vision, a light condensed. The white man, white because he was a man, white like the day, white as truth is white, lighted like a torch all creation; he unfolded the essence, secret and white, of existence__. Today, __these black men have fixed their gaze upon us and our gaze is thrown back into our eyes__ __... By this steady and corrosive gaze, we are picked to the bone. (Cited in, Jay, 1994, p. 294.)__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The presumed objectivity of visual knowledge constructs the world as a prison and establishes a dialectic of subjugation between the elevated viewer and the disempowered object. As debaters our intellectual practices mirror those of train passengers, our approach to knowledge is one of passive consumption. We foreground an instrumental approach to those we speak about, like train passenger we pick and choose which parts of the world we want to see, creating a panoramic photograph that celebrates suffering and converts tragedy into a game-like spectacle. The resolution is our train-car, we are comfortable within its cushioned walls of privilege—as transparent, bodiless intellectuals we are free to move through the frictionless space of our “simulations” while the marked, material bodies we debate about are condemned to the inert and static roles that we narrate for them, rehearsing the ritual play of a world perilously oscillating between catastrophe and salvation, ad-infinitum.**</span>
**Bjork** **93** (Rebecca Bjork, former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University, Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">While reflecting on my experiences as a woman in academic debate in preparation for this essay, I realized that I have been involved in debate for more than half of my life. I debated for four years in high school, for four years in college, and I have been coaching intercollegiate debate for nine years. Not surprisingly, much of my identity as an individual has been shaped by these experiences in debate. I am a person who strongly believes that debate empowers people to be committed and involved individuals in the communities in which they live. I am a person who thrives on the intellectual stimulation involved in teaching and traveling with the brightest students on my campus. I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country. I am also, however, a college professor, a "feminist," and a peace activist who is increasingly frustrated and disturbed by some of the practices I see being perpetuated and rewarded in academic debate. I find that I can no longer separate my involvement in debate from the rest of who I am as an individual. Northwestern </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">I remember listening to a lecture a few years ago given by Tom Goodnight at the University summer debate camp</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Goodnight lamented what he saw as </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">thedebatecommunity'sparticipationin</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, and unthinking perpetuation of what he termed the "</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">deathculture." He argued that theembracingof"bigimpact"arguments--</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">nuclear war, environmental destruction, genocide, famine, and the like-by debaters and coaches </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">signalsamorbidanddetachedfascination</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> with such events, one </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">that views </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">these real human </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">tragedies as part of a "game" in which</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> so-called "</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">objective and neutral</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">" </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">advocates actively seek to find </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">in their research </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the "impact to outweigh all </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">other </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">impacts"--</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the round-winning argument that will carry them to their goal of winning tournament X, Y, or Z</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">He concluded that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">our "use" of such events</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> in this way </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">is tantamount to </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">a </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">celebrationof them; our detached, rational discussions reinforce a detached, rational viewpoint</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">whenemotional and moral outragemay be</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> a </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">more appropriate</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> response</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. In the last few years, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">my academic research has led me to be persuaded by Goodnight's unspoken assumption</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">; language is not merelysome transparent tool</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> used to transmit information, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">but rather</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> is </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">an incredibly powerful medium</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, the use of which inevitably has real political and material consequences</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. Given this assumption, I believe that it is important for us to examine the "discourse of debate practice:"</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> that is, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the language</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, discourses, and meanings that we, as a community of </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">debaters</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> and coaches, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">unthinkingly employ </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">in academic debate</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">If it is the case that the language we use has real implications for how we view the world, how we view others, and how we act in the world, then </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">it is imperative that we critically examineour </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">own </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">discourse </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">practices with an eye to how our language does violence to others</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. I am shocked and surprised when I hear myself saying things like, "we killed them," or "take no prisoners," or "let's blow them out of the water." I am tired of the "ideal" debater being defined as one who has mastered the art of verbal assault to the point where accusing opponents of lying, cheating, or being deliberately misleading is a sign of strength. But what I am most tired of is how women debaters are marginalized and rendered voiceless in such a discourse community. Women who verbally assault their opponents are labeled "bitches" because it is not socially acceptable for women to be verbally aggressive. Women who get angry and storm out of a room when a disappointing decision is rendered are labeled "hysterical" because, as we all know, women are more emotional then men. I am tired of hearing comments like, "those 'girls' from school X aren't really interested in debate; they just want to meet men." We can all point to examples (although only a few) of women who have succeeded at the top levels of debate. But I find myself wondering how many more women gave up because they were tired of negotiating the mine field of discrimination, sexual harassment, and isolation they found in the debate community. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">As members of this community, however, we have great freedom to define it in whatever ways we see fit. After all, what is debate except a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction? What </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">I am calling for</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> is </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">a criticalexamination of how we,</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> as individual members of this community, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">characterize our activity</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, ourselves, and our interactions with others </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">through language. We must become aware of the ways in which our mostly hidden and unspoken assumptions about what "good" debate is function to exclude not only women, but ethnic minorities from the amazing intellectual opportunities that training in debate provides. Our nation and indeed, our planet, faces incredibly difficult challenges in the years ahead. I believe that </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">it is not acceptable anymore for us to go along as we always have, assuming that things will straighten themselves out</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. If the rioting in Los Angeles taught us anything, it is that </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">complacency breeds resentment and frustration</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. We may not be able to change the world</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">but we can change our owncommunity</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, and </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">if we fail to do so</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">we give up the only</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> real </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">power</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">we have.</span>

**There remain aporias in the fabric of modernity—leaks in the engine of the train, rusty patches in its corrugated plating, and fissures in the thick glass of the window pane. Our advocacy affirms positive, pluralistic investment in transportation infrastructure—we harness the inclusive and immanent flows that course through the arteries of modern transportation—like the renegade who hops the train and stows away, or the errant passenger who exits the voyeuristic train car into the cabin to meet a stranger. We slip through the cracks, infiltrating and subverting when we can, embracing the affirmative potentials of the train so as to combat the negatives.**
**Aguiar, 2k** (Marian Aguiar, Associate Professor of Literary & Cultural Studies at Carnegie Melon, “Tracking modernity: Writing the rails of empire”, pp. 55-59, September 2000, ProQuest, rm)

The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">railroad car</span>, as a public space, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has historically attempted to reproduce the hierarchies and divisions of the modern nation</span>.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Sections divided classes, and, in some cases, races and genders</span>. Michel de Certeau writes: The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**unchanging traveller is pigeonholed, numbered, and regulated in the grid of the railway car**, which is a perfect actualization of the rational utopia.</span> [. . .] <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Only a rationalized cell travels. A bubble of panoptic and classifying power, **a module of imprisonment** that makes possible the production of an order, a closed and autonomous insularity</span>—that is what can traverse space and make itself independent of local roots.” <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Like the prison. the railway “cell” reveals not only the power of the state, but its logic as well</span>. The train does not have to belong to the state for this to happen: <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the modem day private train in the United States, with seats in rows and ﬁxed windows, connotes the American national dream of individuality and security</span>. As Certeau underscores, the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**railway produces as well as reveals this order**</span>,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> acting as an emissary of the nation that promises to enclose all within its security</span>. To be within the ordered ranks of the railway car is to be protected by the state and simultaneously the promise of modemity, “the rational utopia.” as well. Therailway<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> also has a certain character in which space </span>is split into <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">two arenas</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**an interior and an exterior**</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This split produces</span> what Certeau calls "<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a closed and autonomous insularity.</span>" <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a fact that becomes important as the train travels through the back door of urban spaces many of the passengers would never walk through. **The interior is designated as a privileged space**</span>**.** “T0 get in, as always, there was a price to be paid." Certeau writes. "history exists where there is a price to be paid."“ The space of the railway promises <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the order of </span>modernity, but <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">only </span>at a cost<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. I would suggest that </span>the railwaycar<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in its entirety always </span>fails to achieve its “rational utopia," a point implicit in Certeau. There are always the transgressors<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: </span>the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> archetypal </span>socialrenegade<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, for example, </span>whohops the train and sleeps thenight<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the goods car.</span> As my chapter on the literature of Partition makes clear, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**the borders between inside and outside are far more porous that the railway utopia strives for.**</span> There is a tension between the regulation of public space and the heterogeneity of that space, for <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">despite the prohibitions of the “regulated in the grid of the railway car," </span>the railway car did enable people to meet across social lines. __The ﬂuidity of the space inside the carriage inspired the plot of numerous stories set on the railway__. For example, in Leo Tolstoy’s short story, “The Kreutzer Sonata” a group on the train debates contemporary marriage. The narrator pays close attention to the arrangement of the speakers within the car, noting who is sitting together and who is outside the circle. __The space of the carriage allows for the passengers outside the group to enter into the conversation__. At one point a “modern” woman sitting in one group meets and debates the validity of arranged marriages with a tradesman, a conversation it is difficult to imagine in any other setting, even a railway station.” Why does this boundary-crossing become available in Lhis particular place? <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>passengers are involved in a <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**collective experience, railway travel, moving in a shared direction.**</span> The common opener, “Where are you headed?”<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> asserts this commonality as much as it </span>suggeststhe possibility of difference<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span> The shared experience of travel allows permeability across <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">otherwise entrenched </span>boundaries. The multiple functions of the train, for example, as a mode of transportation for both sojourners and locals on their way to the market, allow for numerous possibilities of crossing lines. The train carriage thus enerates both ﬁxity during the duration of the journey. and unpredictability. in the sense that the arrangement of space creates a proximity betwen people, and thus a social ﬂuidity.

**Our infusion of storytelling into the politics of spatial planning enables a performative and intersectional critique that is essential to build coalitions and liberate academia from the __myth__ of objectivity.**
**Sandercock, 03** (Leonie Sandercock, Professor of Community & Regional Planning at University of British Columbia with a PhD from the Australian National University, “Out of the Closet: The Importance of Stories and Storytelling in Planning Practice”, Planning Theory & Practice Volume 4 Issue 1, Taylor and Francis Online, rm)

Story and Policy Here I am aided by my colleagues James Throgmorton and Peter Marris, each of whom has done a lot of thinking about the connections between story and policy. In Witnesses, Engineers and Storytellers: Using Research for Social Policy and Community Action (1997), Peter Marris argues that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the relationship between knowledge and action is not straightforward, and that knowledge itself cannot, has not ever, determined policy. In analyzing various types of and approaches to social policy research, Marris asks why so little of the research produced on poverty, for example, has affected policy.</span> His answers are several. One is that academics are <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">powerful critics but </span>weak storytellers<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. That is, they fail to communicate their findings in a form that is not only plausible but persuasive. </span>(By contrast, he notes that community actors have great stories to tell, but no means of telling them, except to each other. So the wrong stories win the debates.) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Storytelling, he says, is the natural language of persuasion,</span> because any story has to involve both a sequence of events and the interpretation of their meaning. A story integrates knowledgeof what happenedwith<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an </span>understanding of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> why it happened and a sense of </span>what it means to us<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>Stories organize knowledge around our need to act and our moral concerns. The stories do not have to be original, but they must be authoritative (that is, provide reliable evidence marshaled into a convincing argument). The best are both original and authoritative.5 To be persuasive, the stories we tell must fit the need as well as the situation. Policy researchers compete with everyone else who has a story to tell, and their special claim on public attention lies in the quality of their observation as well as the sophistication of the accumulated understanding through which they interpret their data. But this truthfulness is not, in itself, necessarily persuasive. Good stories have qualities such as dramatic timing, humor, irony, evocativeness and suspense, in which social researchers are untrained. “Worse”, says Marris, “they have taught themselves that to be entertaining compromises the integrity of scientific work” (Marris, 1997, p. 58). Writing up policy research is hard work: it is hard to tell a good story while simultaneously displaying conscientiously the evidence on which it is based. However, Marris insists, the more social researchers attendtothe storyteller’s craft<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and honor it in the work of colleagues and students, the more influential they can be. </span>We have to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">be able </span>totell<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our </span>stories skillfully enough to capture the imagination of a broader<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and more political </span>audience <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">than our colleagues alone.</span> There are two notions of story at work here. One is functional/instrumental: bringing the findings of social research to life through weaving them into a good story. The other is more profound: <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">storytelling, in the fullest sense, is not merely recounting events, but endowing them with meaning by commentary, interpretation and dramatic structure. </span>While Marris seems to confine his advocacy of storytelling to the publishing of research results, James Throgmorton’s work addresses the next step, the arts of rhetoric in the public domain of speech and debate. The lesson he wants to impart is that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**if we want to be effective policy advocates, then we need to become good story-makers and good storytellers, in the more performative sense**.</span> In Planning as Persuasive Storytelling (1996), Throgmorton suggests that we can think of planning as an enacted and future-oriented narrative in which participants are both characters and joint authors. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We can think of storytelling as being an appropriate style for conveying the truth of planning action.</span> However, what should be done, he asks, when planning stories overlap and conflict? How can planners (and other interested parties) decide which planning story is more worthy of the telling? Throgmorton (1996, p. 48) draws on Fisher’s concept of narrative rationality in claiming that humans are storytellers who have a natural capacity to recognize the fidelity of stories they tell and experience. We test stories in terms of the extent to which they hang together (coherence) and in terms of their truthfulness and reliability (fidelity). But Throgmorton is unhappy with this, reminding us of situations in which two planning stories, both of which are coherent and truthful, compete for attention. What then makes one more worthy than another? Throgmorton suggests that the answer to this question lies in part at least in the persuasiveness with which we tell our stories. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Planning is a form of persuasive storytelling, and planners are both authors who write texts</span> (plans, analyses, articles) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and also characters whose forecasts, surveys, models, maps, and so on, act as tropes</span> (figures of speech and argument) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in their own and others’ persuasive stories.</span> A crucial part of Throgmorton’s argument is that this future-oriented storytelling is never simply persuasive. It is also constitutive. The ways in which planners write and talk shape community, character and culture. So a critical question for planners is what ethical principles should guide and constrain their efforts to persuade their audiences. Marris’s and Throgmorton’s work has very important implications for policy research and recommendations. If planners want to be more effective in translating knowledge to action<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, they argue, then </span>we had better pay more attention to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the craft of </span>storytelling<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in both its written and oral forms</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">That means literally expanding the language of planning, to become more expressive, evocative, engaging, and to include the language of the emotions.</span> “Academic story telling<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">”</span>, writes Finnegan, “is ugly in its stark,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> clichéd </span>monotone manner. We tell the dullest stories in the most dreary ways<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and usually deliberately, for this is the mantle of scientific storytelling: it is supposed to be dull</span>” (Finnegan, 1998, p. 21). What Finnegan alleges of academic story telling is equally true of bureaucratic story telling. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Policy reports produced by government planning agencies, and also by consultants for those agencies, are cut from the same clichéd cloth. They are dry as dust</span>. Life’s juices have been squeezed from them. Emotion has been <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rigorously </span>purged,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as if there were no such things as joy, tranquility, anger, resentment, fear, hope, memory and forgetting, at stake in </span>these analyses. What purposes, whose purposes, do these bloodless stories serve? For one thing, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they serve to </span>perpetuate a myth of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span>objectivity<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and technical expertise of planners.</span> __In doing so, these documents are nothing short of misleading at best, (dishonest at worst)__, about the kinds of problems and choices we face in cities. To influence policy, planners need to learn story, or rather, an array of storytelling modes. But where to learn it? What is the academy teaching? Story as Critique and/or Explanation There is a false binary in our heads that separates planning documents, social scientific research and theorizing, from storytelling, rather than allowing us to appreciate the ways in which each of these employs story. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Planning documents</span>, from maps, to models, to GIS, to plans themselves, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">do in fact all tell a story. </span>Sometimes the story is descriptive, or poses as descriptive, ‘this is how things are’, ‘these are the facts’. But there is no such thing as mere description, or pure facts. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is always an author, the planner as policy analyst, who is choosing which facts are relevant, what to describe, what to count, and in the assembling of these facts a story is shaped, an interpretation, either consciously or unconsciously, emerges. Facts are usually marshaled to explain something and to draw some conclusions for action.</span> Scholars also use story in their critical writings about cities and planning, sometimes consciously, but usually not. Even unconsciously, however, academic urban stories, even the most seemingly abstract, often exhibit some of the five familiar properties of story that were described in the introduction, drawing on familiar plot lines. There are heroes and antiheroes, victims and other familiar character types: the witch figure/demon of international capitalism; the two-faced fairy of progress; the insubstantial and ambiguous trickster called postmodernity; and the darling love, long-lost, but in some stories found again, of community (Finnegan, 1998, p. 21). There is a temporal ordering, often on a grand scale, taking us from pre-industrial to industrial to post-industrial cities, or from deindustrialization to the knowledge economy and the space of flows. The most familiar plot is change itself, and the desire to explain it. Along with the explaining usually comes a valuing. Things were better before, or after, such and such, which then suggests we should go backwards or forwards. Evocative plots, of rural superseded by urban, community by alienation, tradition by modernity, or community triumphing over capital, residents over bureaucracies, squatters over the forces of law and order, are moving stories with which individual readers can identify, positioning themselves in a larger historical narrative. There are stories of times of transition, of new eras, of an old order passing, of lost Golden Ages. There are also some stories, but not many, which foretell a happy ending, if only…If only ‘we’ would do such and such, then we could live happily ever after. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In other words, academic </span>urban stories <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and theories </span>evoke basic narrative plots<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that are familiar to us from other contexts</span> (from fairy tales to movies)<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>which resonate with us morally as well as intellectually<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, satisfying or disturbing or challenging us.</span> My point here is not to say that these stories are therefore worthless. On the contrary, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they are illuminating and instructive precisely because of these underlying plots, which are all exercises in valuing human activities, in a moral ordering of life and social organization</span>. As with planning documents, the more alert we can be to the underlying story or stories, the better we are able to evaluate them. We need to understand the mechanisms of story, both in order to tell good stories ourselves, and to be more critical of the stories we have to listen to. As with the myths of other cultures, our planning and academic stories function as sanction and justification for the current order, but also as launching pads for counterversions. Academic stories about planning usually take sides, although not always overtly. Sometimes the side that is being taken is revealed by asking the question, of any narrative, what stories are missing here? In Making the Invisible Visible (1998), I critiqued what I call the ‘Official Story’ of planning’s history, by pointing out what that story leaves out. The ‘Official Story’ portrays planning as a heroic pursuit<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, often without any fatal flaws, always on the side of the angels, </span>and those who oppose it as irrational<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, reactionary, or just plain greedy. What </span>this leaves out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> are </span>the gender, class, race and cultural biases of planning practices<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">; the ways in which </span>planning has served as an agent of social control, regulating<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (certain </span>marked<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">) </span>bodies in space<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">; and the many stories of oppositional practices, grass roots planning by excluded groups, in opposition to a state-directed mode of planning that has always disadvantaged them.</span> To imagine the futuredifferently<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>we need to start with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> history, with a </span>reconsideration of the stories wetell<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ourselves </span>about<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the role of </span>planningin the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> modern and postmodern </span>city<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. In telling new stories about our past, our intention is to reshape our future.</span> If we can uncouple planning history from its obsession with the celebratory story of the rise of the planning profession, then we may be able to link it to a new set of public issues, those connected with a dawning appreciation of a multicultural heritage and the challenge of planning for a future of multicultural cities and regions. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The multicultural city cannot be imagined without a belief in inclusive democracy and the diversity of social justice claims of the disempowered communities in existing cities—communities of migrants, indigenous peoples, poor people. If we want to work towards a policy of inclusion, then we need to start from a sound understanding of the exclusionary effects of planning’s past practices and ideologies</span>. If we want to plan in the future for and with a heterogeneous public, acknowledging and nurturing the full diversity of all the social groups in the multicultural city, then we need to develop a new<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> kind of multicultural literacy. An essential part of that literacy is </span>familiarity with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>multiple histories<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of urban communities, and the multiple histories of newcomers, </span>especially as those histories intersect with struggles over space and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> place claiming, with </span>planning policies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and resistances to them, with traditions of indigenous planning, </span>and with questions of belonging and identity and difference<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

=Round 2= 
Neg vs. Damien MR

1NC: Security + Export Oriented Economics Bad + Case D

2NR: Security + Export Oriented Economics Bad

=Round 3= 
Neg vs. CPS GY

1NC: Security + Heg Bad + Case Defense

2NR: Security
=Round 4= 
Trains aff vs. Bishop Guertin DI
=Round 5= 
Neg vs. Lexington AR

1NC: Guam Presence K + T "In" + Induced Population Strain DA + Case Defense
2NR: Guam Presence K
=Round 6= 
Aff vs. Pace ES

Dissent AFF:
<span class="Underline"> **Part One—In Support of Dissent:**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The 1960’s construction of the freeway exemplifies a top-down approach to city planning that to this day produces exclusion across rubrics of race, class, gender, ability, age, and species. In particular, early freeways illustrated racist and environmentally destructive planning that is symptomatic of overt centralization. The Freeway Revolt emerged as a mode of popular dissent that enabled political progress and -cultural coalition building against the freeway.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mohl** **02** (Raymond A. Mohl, PhD—Department of History— **cross** University of Alabama at Birmingham,Research Report: Poverty and Race Research Action Council, 2002, **“**The Interstates and the Cities: Highways, Housing, and the Freeway Revolt,” Online, //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">In the 1960s, the United States seemed to be a nation locked in turmoil. Political, social, and cultural conflict rocked the country year after year. The Vietnam War deeply divided the nation. College students in large numbers protested the draft and marched against the war. New left political action dominated university campuses and city streets. Racial conflict stirred passions, first in the civil rights movement, then followed by race riots in the urban ghettos and demands for black power. The </span>divisive identitypoliticsand alternative movements<span class="Underline"> of the era </span>shattered the<span class="Underline"> seeming political and cultural </span>consensus of the 1950s<span class="Underline">. </span>The period was marked by the emergence ofthe women's movement<span class="Underline">, </span>gayliberation<span class="Underline">, </span>environmental protection<span class="Underline">, "</span>brown power<span class="Underline">" and </span>the farmworker movement<span class="Underline">, </span>the Native American movement<span class="Underline">, </span>calls for white<span class="Underline"> ethnic </span>power<span class="Underline">, </span>and<span class="Underline"> various other </span>splinter<span class="Underline"> or special-interest </span>group activities<span class="Underline">. Drugs, sex, and rock and roll music absorbed the attention of young people and took on political overtones. The popular slogan of the day, "Power to the People," meant different things to different people and groups. Only in the early 1970s, after Watergate and the U.S. pullout from Vietnam, did the passionate movements of the Sixties seem to dissipate and run out of steam. However, most </span>analyses<span class="Underline"> of this turbulent period </span>have ignored<span class="Underline"> one powerful movement of the era that generated considerable heat and that spread from city to city -- </span>the<span class="Underline"> so-called </span>Freeway Revolt<span class="Underline">.1 Beginning in the late 1950s, a nascent Freeway Revolt emerged in San Francisco. </span>The movementaccelerated<span class="Underline"> nationally in the 1960s, </span>as <span class="Underline">interstate </span>highwayconstruction began<span class="Underline"> penetrating urban America and knocking down neighborhoods. Pushing </span>expressways<span class="Underline"> through the social and physical fabric of American cities inevitably </span>resulted in housing demolition<span class="Underline"> on a large scale, the </span>destruction of<span class="Underline"> entire </span>communities<span class="Underline">, severe relocation problems, </span>and<span class="Underline"> various negative </span>environmental consequences<span class="Underline">. Once homeowners, business people, and community groups became aware of the "concrete monsters" rolling through the cities, demolishing everything in their paths, </span>opposition movements sprang up<span class="Underline"> to defend specific pieces of urban turf. The struggle pitted grass-roots citizen organizations against the state and federal highway engineers and administrators who made the final decisions on interstate routes. In some cities, </span>freeway construction coincided with black political empowermentandthe<span class="Underline"> rising </span>civil rights movement<span class="Underline">, </span>developments<span class="Underline"> that </span>took on added significance when black neighborhoodswere targeted for destruction<span class="Underline"> by the highwaymen. In Washington, D.C., for instance, </span>expressway issues became racialized<span class="Underline"> by 1967, when a black militant group distributed flyers demanding "No more white highways through black bedrooms." In other cities, protecting parklands, schools and churches, historic districts, and sensitive </span>environmentalareas stimulated citizen movements<span class="Underline"> to "Stop the Road. At some point in the 1960s, then, many Americans came to focus on the negative consequences of highway building, as opposed to the demonstrable advantages of modern, high-speed, express highways serving a nation addicted to automobiles and to mobility."2 The timing, progress, and outcome of the emerging Freeway Revolt differed from city to city. With the exception of San Francisco, in cities where the highway builders moved quickly in the late 1950s to build the urban interstates, the inner beltways and radials, opposition never materialized or was weakly expressed.3 In southern cities, where blacks had little political leverage at the time, building a freeway through the black community was not only the most common choice, but the choice that generally had the support of the dominant white community. Where freeway construction was delayed into the 1960s, affected neighborhoods, institutions, and businesses had time to organize against the highwaymen. In some cases, they successfully forced the adoption of alternative routes, and they even shut down some specific interstate projects permanently. In many cities, freeway opponents targeted urban renewal programs as well: highway builders and urban redevelopers often worked together and divided up new city spaces acquired by eminent domain, allocating some land for highways and the rest for redevelopment (usually not for housing, however). In their writings, influential urbanists such as Lewis Mumford, Jane Jacobs, and others provided an intellectual critique of such urban redevelopment schemes. Their appeals for preservation of small-scale neighborhood life in the modern city resonated with the freeway fighters, buttressing the Freeway Revolt. Some early academic critics of the interstate system also surfaced by 1960, including urbanist Daniel P. Moynihan, who in an influential article in The Reporter criticized urban interstates for their lack of comprehensive planning and potentially damaging impact on urban life and metropolitan structure.4 </span>As a collection of discrete<span class="Underline">, bottom-up </span>movementsbeginningat the neighborhood level<span class="Underline">, </span>the Freeway Revolt shares<span class="Underline"> many </span>aspects ofSixties counter-cultural<span class="Underline"> and change-inducing </span>activity<span class="Underline">. </span>Typical<span class="Underline"> of the time </span>was rejection of top-down decision making<span class="Underline">, the normal practice of the highway establishment in routing and building highways. In a sense, </span>the federal government<span class="Underline"> itself </span>had<span class="Underline"> partially </span>contributed to rejection of elitepolicy-making<span class="Underline"> by promoting "community action" as an essential ingredient in the so-called War on Poverty, a contemporaneous Sixties undertaking of major proportions. </span>Anti-freewaygroups<span class="Underline"> mirrored this sort of Sixties-style political action, but they also </span>provided a modelforthe<span class="Underline"> subsequent "**backyard revolution**" that increasingly came to shape urban politics and policy-making in the final decades of the twentieth century. In retrospect, the Freeway Revolt should be interpreted as an integral aspect of Sixties-era protest politics. "</span>Power to the People<span class="Underline">" in this case </span>meant citizen participation in important decision-making on<span class="Underline"> expressway routes and </span>urban policy<span class="Underline">. However, the citizen army of homeowners and neighborhood groups came up against an inflexible bureaucratic force of state and federal highway engineers and administrators reluctant to yield professional authority to popular protesters. Only when decision-making on controversial interstate routes became politicized and subject to litigation in the late 1960s and after did freeway revolters achieve a measure of success and satisfaction.5 </span>

<span class="Underline">**The Freeway Revolts demonstrate an important point about civil dissent. Dissenters did not need to agree on the particularities of their own movements—gay liberation, black power, and environmentalist groups established solidarity in opposition to the freeway. Resistance does not need to be perfectly unitary; the presence of a common enemy ties together coalitions. Dissent is a process that involves different groups and political allies. The Freeway Revolt was instrumental in demonstrates the way that progress is possible as synthesis from the top-down, and the grass-roots. Empirically, successful dissent is a supplement to systems of authority—for popular protest to be successful it needs to be visible and open to including both other forms of resistance, and government action.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mohl** **02** (Raymond A. Mohl, PhD—Department of History—University of Alabama at Birmingham,Research Report: Poverty and Race Research Action Council, 2002, **“**The Interstates and the Cities: Highways, Housing, and the Freeway Revolt,” Online, //azp//)</span>

When city peoplediscovered<span class="Underline"> that new </span>expressways were bearing down on their<span class="Underline"> homes and neighborhoods, </span>they had few alternatives<span class="Underline">. One such choice, increasingly common in big cities in the Sixties, was </span>organization, opposition, and political coalition-building<span class="Underline">. But </span>each city wasunique<span class="Underline"> in many respects, and the outcomes were not always the same. In Miami, despite enormous neighborhood destruction in the central city black community, expressway opposition initially remained muted, pushed only by a few housing reformers. In Baltimore, a major interracial, </span>cross-class movementrepresenting over thirty community groups <span class="Underline">successfully </span>challenged<span class="Underline"> multiple </span>freewaysthat would havebisected<span class="Underline"> dozens of </span>neighborhoods<span class="Underline">. In New Orleans, white preservationists ultimately staved off a planned riverfront expressway that would have damaged the historic French Quarter, but they cared little about an alternate expressway a mile away that pushed a stable and long-established black neighborhood into quick decline. In other cities, the Freeway Revolt had still other outcomes.6 There were good reasons for such diverse outcomes. </span>Successful<span class="Underline"> Freeway </span>Revolts<span class="Underline"> generally </span>had<span class="Underline"> at least four </span>commonalities<span class="Underline">. First, </span>persistent neighborhood activism<span class="Underline"> and extensive cross-city, </span>cross-class<span class="Underline">, and </span>interracial alliances<span class="Underline"> were needed to bring a high level of attention to the freeway problem over a sustained period of time. Second, such </span>movements needed strong support from<span class="Underline"> at least some local </span>politicians<span class="Underline"> and from influential newspapers and journalists. Third, </span>legal action over highwayroutingwas<span class="Underline"> a </span>necessary<span class="Underline"> ingredient; litigation sometimes delayed land acquisition and construction for years, but without such legal action state highway departments could move ahead with dispatch. And, in the final analysis, the freeway </span>revolters<span class="Underline"> often </span>needed a<span class="Underline"> final shut-down </span>decision from the courts<span class="Underline"> or from highest levels of the highway bureaucracy or, after the early 1970s, from state governors. </span>Grass-roots, populist struggle against the urban interstates was crucial<span class="Underline">, of course, but without these other ingredients in the story there was a very good chance that the freeway would get built anyway. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Part Two—Dissenting Debate:**</span>

<span class="Underline">**The gates of progress in the United States are shut—debate, like mainstream politics and education in our country is committed to providing the youth with a toolbox of superficial jargon rather than actual enthusiasm.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gordon** **09** (Mordechai Gordon, Quinnipiac University, Hamden, CT, M. Gordon (ed.), Reclaiming Dissent: Civics Education for the 21st Century, 11–26. © 2009 [[https://www.sensepublishers.com/files/9789087908867PR.pdf]], //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">Finally, </span>the education system intheU<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>shares<span class="Underline"> the </span>blame for not helping students develop critical thinking skills<span class="Underline"> and learn about the value of dissent in a democratic society. As John Gatto (2002) writes in his book Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling. </span>The logic of the school-mindisthat it is better to leave school with a tool kit of superficial jargon<span class="Underline"> derived from economics, sociology, natural science, and so on </span>than with<span class="Underline"> one </span>genuine enthusiasm<span class="Underline">. But </span>quality in education entails learning <span class="Underline">about something </span>in depth<span class="Underline">… Meaning, not disconnected facts, is what sane human beings seek, and education is a set of codes for processing raw data into meaning. Behind the patchwork quilt of school sequences and the school obsession with facts and theories, the age-old human search for meaning lies well concealed. (pp. 3–4) Thus, most schools in this country still emphasize the study of disconnected facts and isolated skills rather than getting students to learn about important issues in depth. As Gatto noted, </span>students leave<span class="Underline"> these </span>institutions with very little enthusiasm<span class="Underline"> to engage in the kind of thorough examination of issues and civic action that are essential for a thriving democracy. This book focuses on the value of dissent for the survival of our democracy and the role that education and schooling can play with respect to this virtue. The idea for this book comes out of my interest in politics and education and my deep concern about the erosion of democracy in the United States in the last several decades. One of the most striking characteristics of this erosion is the fact that </span>dissent is discouraged and<span class="Underline"> even </span>suppressedin<span class="Underline"> the </span>mainstreammedia<span class="Underline">, in our public schools, and in public debates in general. Particularly troubling is the way in which conservative leaders and groups are pushing schools to support their reactionary agenda, one that emphasizes standardization, traditional notions of authority, and blind patriotism. Such an agenda undermines the development of those skills and facilities students need to become critical and active citizens in a democracy. As a result, </span>the meaning and value of dissent for the life of a democracy is lostupon most<span class="Underline"> students and citizens in the United States. Indeed, as one of the key democratic virtues, **dissent seems to be all but forgotten** in this country. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The introductory debate courses and summer institutes in our activity are the media outlets that disperse information throughout our community. They are the Fox News and CNN of debate. Our media is primarily concerned with promoting a policy-focused form of debate, while shoehorning in discussions of performance and dissent, lectures are generally oriented around sterile politics and states counterplan debates. Likewise, mainstream US media promotes a one-sided political culture. The majoritarian attitude media inculcates has empirically been shown to broaden support of reactionary policy.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gordon** **09** (Mordechai Gordon, Quinnipiac University, Hamden, CT, M. Gordon (ed.), Reclaiming Dissent: Civics Education for the 21st Century, 11–26. © 2009 [[https://www.sensepublishers.com/files/9789087908867PR.pdf]], //azp//)</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps Tocqueville is exaggerating the power of the majority in the United States to control public opinion, open discussion, and individual expression. But it seems to me that it is difficult to disregard his argument that </span>the governing party in the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>togetherwith the<span class="Underline"> mass </span>mediago to great length to squelch dissentingopinions<span class="Underline"> and limit the discussion to those parameters that they deem legitimate to talk about. Indeed, Edward Herman and Noam Chomsky refer to the practice of shaping public opinion and squelching dissent as “manufacturing consent.” Unlike the common view that the media in the United States are independent and committed to discovering and reporting the truth, Herman and Chomsky (1988) assert that it is more accurate to say that </span>the mainstream media <span class="Underline">tend to </span>reflect the world as powerful groups wish it to be perceived<span class="Underline">: Leaders of the media claim that their news choices rest on unbiased professional and objective criteria, and they have support for this contention in the intellectual community. If, however, the powerful are able to fix the premises of discourse, to decide what the general populace is allowed to see, hear, and think about, and to “manage” public opinion by regular propaganda campaigns, the standard view of how the system works is at serious odds with reality (p. xi). Much like Tocqueville, Herman and Chomsky are deeply concerned about the way in which the powerful groups in this country use their influence to control information, dominate public discussions, and suppress dissenting viewpoints. To illustrate this point, consider the case of the war in Iraq mentioned above. In a speech given on October 7th 2003, Chomsky argues that </span>starting in<span class="Underline"> September of </span>2002<span class="Underline">, </span>there wasa<span class="Underline">n active </span>propagandacampaign initiated <span class="Underline">by the Bush Administration </span>to scarethe<span class="Underline"> American </span>public<span class="Underline"> and shape the conversation </span>in<span class="Underline"> such </span>a way that made resistance to invading Iraq unpopular<span class="Underline"> and anti-American. To begin with, Chomsky (2003) reminds us that in early September, National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice, warned us that “the next evidence we were likely to have about Saddam Hussein will be a mushroom cloud, presumably over New York.”2 Then on February 5, 2003, Secretary of State, Colin Powell, delivered the famous multimedia presentation at the U.N., using satellite images and intercepted phone calls, to try to convince the world that Hussein was hiding weapons of mass destruction and cultivating links with Al Qaeda. Finally, </span>it has beendemonstratedby FAIR<span class="Underline"> (Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting), </span>the media watch group<span class="Underline">, </span>that<span class="Underline"> in the months and weeks leading up to the invasion of Iraq, ABC, CBS, NBC and PBS, conducted about 400 interviews with experts about the war. In its study, FAIR concluded that </span>Networknewscasts were dominated by<span class="Underline"> current and former </span>U.S. officialsand<span class="Underline"> largely </span>excluded Americanswho were<span class="Underline"> skeptical of or </span>opposed<span class="Underline"> to an invasion of Iraq. “</span>Of all 393 sources<span class="Underline">,” the study found, “only three (</span>less than 1 percent<span class="Underline">) </span>were identified with <span class="Underline">organized </span>protests<span class="Underline"> or anti-war groups.”3 Following this propaganda campaign, should it come as any surprise that by the end of September of 2002, 60% of the American people regarded Iraq as a serious threat to the security of the United States? Equally troubling, is that in the weeks leading up to the war, about </span>50%<span class="Underline"> of the population </span>believed<span class="Underline"> that </span>Iraq was involved in<span class="Underline"> the </span>September 11th<span class="Underline"> attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. For Chomsky, the irony is that at this same time none of Iraq’s neighbors were afraid of Saddam, neither Kuwait, which Hussein invaded, nor Iran, which experienced an eight-year devastating war with Iraq. “They’re not afraid of him because they know exactly what the U.S. intelligence and everyone else knows – Iraq was the weakest country in the region” (2003). Its economy and population had been devastated by the U.N. sanctions; the country was virtually disarmed and had been under total surveillance for years. </span>What is at stake<span class="Underline"> here </span>is the ability of<span class="Underline"> powerful </span>groups<span class="Underline"> in the United States, including the administration and the mass media, </span>to<span class="Underline"> shape public opinion, manufacture consent, and even </span>induce individuals to give up thinking<span class="Underline"> on their own. **Uncritical consent is very dangerous**, as Tocqueville warned us, since it undermines some of the core principles of a democratic society such as individual expression, diversity of opinions, and open discussion. In light of Chomsky’s critique, it is evident that uncritical consent among members of congress, the mainstream press, and the American public made it possible for the Bush administration to invade Iraq in 2003, despite making a weak case for this war. In hindsight</span>, one of the mostimportant lessons that we can learn from this war is<span class="Underline"> about </span>the<span class="Underline"> critical </span>role<span class="Underline"> that </span>dissent can play in preventing <span class="Underline">unwarranted </span>militaryconfrontations<span class="Underline">. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The impact is the tyranny of the majority. In debate the idols of stasis and consensus have replaced authentic democracy with univocity. The gateway to expression and determination for the minority is dissent against the system.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gordon** **09** (Mordechai Gordon, Quinnipiac University, Hamden, CT, M. Gordon (ed.), Reclaiming Dissent: Civics Education for the 21st Century, 11–26. © 2009 [[https://www.sensepublishers.com/files/9789087908867PR.pdf]], //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">In Tocqueville’s view, the taken-for-granted beliefs and values are necessary not only for the existence of society but also for the well being of individuals. “If man were forced to prove to himself all the truths he makes use of every day,” Tocqueville wrote, “he would never finish. He would exhaust himself in preliminary demonstrations without advancing” (pp. 407–408). Given both time constraints and the limits of an individual’s intelligence, each person is forced to take on trust a host of facts and beliefs that one has neither the time nor the power to verify for oneself. On the basis of these accepted facts and beliefs, </span>each individual creates<span class="Underline"> for himself or herself </span>a set of<span class="Underline"> opinions and </span>values<span class="Underline">, </span>yet thegroundwork<span class="Underline"> for these views </span>is<span class="Underline"> usually </span>never questioned<span class="Underline">. Tocqueville believed that this condition is not only necessary but also desirable since otherwise each individual would be condemned to finding out everything for oneself, making it almost impossible to explore any topic in depth. Yet, while Tocqueville recognized the benefits for both society and individuals of having some shared ideas, he was also keenly aware of the dangers that the taken-for-granted beliefs pose for the citizens of a democracy. He emphasized that </span>the public<span class="Underline">, by which he meant the majority opinion, </span>does not try to persuade the minorityof the validity of its belief<span class="Underline">s. Rather, “</span>it imposes them and makes them penetrate soulsby<span class="Underline"> a sort of </span>immensepressure of the minds<span class="Underline"> of all on the intellect of each” (p. 409). Thus, </span>Tocqueville was concerned<span class="Underline"> that </span>the majorityviewpoint in theU<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>would overshadow minority opinionsand<span class="Underline"> that </span>unpopular truths would no longer be spoken<span class="Underline">. Moreover, he correctly called our attention to the danger of allowing the majority to simply supply individuals with ready-made opinions, thereby relieving them of the obligation to form their own. Not having lived through the age of mass media and their attempt to mobilize support for the powerful elite, it is amazing how Tocqueville was able to foreshadow how a democratic society such as the United States could willingly induce its citizens to trust the general will and give up thinking. Indeed, when one reads Democracy in America, one is struck by the fact that many of Tocqueville’s observations still hold true today. For instance, he remarked in his discussions on the tyranny of the majority that “I do not know any country where, in general, less independence of mind and genuine freedom of discussion reign than in America” (p. 244). Tocqueville explained that </span>freedom of thoughtand expression are not limited in theU<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>as long as one remains within the boundaries<span class="Underline"> that </span>themajority has erected<span class="Underline">. However, if one dares to cross these boundaries one is likely to face a host of penalties and persecutions: A political career is closed to him: he has offended the only power that has the capacity to open it up. Everything is refused to him, even glory. Before publishing his opinions, he believed he had partisans; it seems to him that he no longer has any now that he has uncovered himself to all; for those who blame him express themselves openly, and those who think like him, without having his courage, keep silent and move away. He yields, he finally bends under the effort of each day and returns to silence as if he felt remorse for having spoken the truth. (p. 244) For Tocqueville, </span>the most pressing problem with <span class="Underline">the </span>democratic government<span class="Underline"> he witnessed in the United States </span>is the omnipotence of themajority<span class="Underline"> party in relation to the minority. What he feared most, which he calls </span>the “tyranny of the majority,”is that the majority in theU<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates, </span>because it is so powerful<span class="Underline">, </span>would<span class="Underline"> easily </span>deny<span class="Underline"> both individuals and </span>groupswho are in the minority their<span class="Underline"> basic </span>rights of **expression**and **determination**<span class="Underline">. As he puts it: What I most reproach in democratic government, as it has been organized in the United States, is not, as many people in Europe claim, its weakness, but on the contrary, its irresistible force. And what is most repugnant to me in America is not the extreme freedom that reigns there, **it is the lack of a guarantee against tyranny**. (p. 241) </span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The kind of switch-side debate fetishized by majoritarian understandings of the resolution is exclusively strategic for the purpose of a win. Our attempt to inject popular dissent into the topic is a means of debating for truth not just victory. Longitudinal studies of Southern literary societies demonstrate that the contemporary model for switch-side debate is academically hollow.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Westbrook 02 </span>B. Evelyn Westbrook- PhD Rhetoric University of Texas Debating Both Sides: What Nineteenth-Century College Literary Societies Can Teach Us about Critical Pedagogies, Rhetoric Review, 21:4, 339-356 Taylor Francis

If societies like the Athenian and Clariosophic did, in fact, train students for public office, how did they influence students to think about the issues they debated? Did students regard debates as contests to be won, diversions from otherwise banal studies, or sincere inquiries into issues of public consequences? Asking these questions of South Carolina College’s Clariosophic Society, which like most other antebellum societies was at its peak before the Civil War, gives us the chance to see members debate particularly passionate political issues at a critical moment in American history (Harding 179). Furthermore, these questions are worth asking of nineteenth-century literary societies like SouthCarolina’s Clariosophic Society not only because they can provide us with a more complete picture of nineteenth-century rhetorical education but also because they allow us through historical analogy to look critically at today’s writing pedagogies that similarly foreground agonisticdebate. The Radical Potential of the Clariosophic Society As war clouds gathered before the Civil War, literary societies all over the United States, but especially in the stronghold of the Confederate South, grappled with serious public questions. South Carolina College’s Clariosophic Society was no exception. Like other southern societies (and like most of their northern and western counterparts<span class="Underline">), </span>members of the<span class="Underline"> Clariosophic </span>Society<span class="Underline"> vigorously </span>debated contemporary social<span class="Underline"> and political </span>questions<span class="Underline">, </span>including slavery and secession (Harding 193). In fact, Clariosophics debated so many political questions that one member, Maxcy Gregg, complained in his 1835 valedictory speech of the society’s preoccupation with “politics of the day.” Indeed, of the 135 questions debated between 1842 and 1847, 53 dealt explicitly with contemporary local, national, or international politics.5 Because societies were forums wherein students debated issues of the day, it is tempting to characterize them as instruments of change in a reform era. Indeed, some scholars have (Frederick Rudolph; Richard Hofstadter). However, Rita Saslaw reminds us that college literary societies were extensions of conservative and elite institutions of higher education and therefore assumed the role of preserving the values of society for future generations. Furthermore, except at progressive schools like Oberlin, antebellum literary societies were open only to the most privileged white males. And even at Oberlin, Saslaw argues, societies “did not fill the role of a forum for social activism” but “merely succeeded in providing a protected arena for the discussion of political, philosophical, religious, and historical topics” (200, 201). If debating divisive political and social issues in the composition classroom fosters social critique, as some contend, then we might expect members of the Clariosophic Society to occasionally challenge conventional wisdom and hegemonic ideologies. Because Clariosophics’ votes indicated “their own private feelings as to the question discussed,” society minutes, which record the decisions reached on questions debated, can serve as a barometer of student opinion (Hollis 235). Thomas Harding explains that “as most questions [for debate] were settled by popular vote and the votes recorded, the decisions furnish a first-hand account of what Southern college boys were thinking about in the years that witnessed the disruption of the Union” (193). Furthermore, Harding observes that in the decades immediately preceding the Civil War, “the decisions of the Southern college societies were generally in line with the prevailing attitude toward slavery in the South” (Harding 194).6 Clariosophics’ votes on questions debated between 1842 and 1847 suggest, indeed, that even though societies encouraged discussions of contemporary questions, members consistently reaffirmed dominant Carolinian ideologies and political sentiments rather than critiquing them.7 As historians like Robert Forbes have noted, South Carolinians were “the Americans most dedicated to preserving [slavery]” (81), and South Carolina was what historian Manisha Sinha calls “the secessionist state par excellence” (187). It’s no surprise, then, that in their debates Clariosophic members doggedly upheld Confederate positions regarding slavery and secession: • Is the spirit of liberty higher in countries where there are slaves or where there are none? (debated March 12, 1842, and decided affirmatively8) • Situated as we are should our slaves be debased the means of knowledge? (debated January 7, 1843, and decided affirmatively) • Has a state the right to secede from the Union? (argued on October 31, 1846, and decided affirmatively) • Is it likely that slavery will be eventually abolished? (argued on February 19, 1848, and decided negatively) The Clariosophics’ proslavery and secessionist positions reflect how deeply embedded racial slavery was in Carolinian ideology and politics: In their disapproval of providing slaves “the means of knowledge,” Clariosophics sided with Carolina’s planter politicians, who, fearing insurrection, were reluctant to permit Methodist ministers or missionaries to instruct or preach to their slaves (Ambrose 56). Furthermore, the society’s affirmative decision on the question, “Is the spirit of liberty higher in countries where there are slaves or where there are none?” reflects a characteristic Confederate defense of slavery: Historian Robert Forbes claims that Southern supporters of slavery often stigmatized challenges to slavery as threats to liberty, especially the right to property (81). The liberties and rights of white, propertied men were not surprisingly upheld by members of the Clariosophic Society who debated such questions as: • Is it not an infringement upon the inalienable rights of man for government to prohibit expatriation? (argued on February 7, 1846, and decided affirmatively) • Is our right to property natural or the gift of Government? (argued March 20, 1847, and decided affirmatively) • Is the right of making wills a natural right? (argued March 27, 1847, and decided affirmatively) • Is the free agency of man compatible with the necessary order of things? (argued on November 7, 1846, and decided affirmatively) Clariosophics routinely defend the white man’s “inalienable” rights to property and citizenship. Although championing freedoms and securing individuals’ rights may seem inconsistent with proslavery positions, these sentiments also acted, as Forbes explains, as “safeguards to slavery” (70): Man’s “natural right” to property implied that slavery was the white man’s natural right. Despite Clariosophics’ staunch defense of the white man’s right to property, Clariosophics paradoxically denied a father the right to will his estate to his daughter: On the question “Ought a man to have the right of entailing all his property on his daughter?” (argued on February 5, 1842), Clariosophics decided negatively. In fact, between 1842 and 1847, members upheld sexist ideologies in all four questions (including the one listed above) that considered women’s rights and liberties: • Have the sexes naturally equal minds? (debated on May 2, 1846, and decided negatively) • Do the duties of women in Society demand for her a college Education? (argued April 3, 1847, and decided negatively) • Is the female mind naturally inferior to that of man? (considered on December 4, 1847, and decided affirmatively) Time and again, society members denied women’s rights to property and education and defended a patriarchal social order. Furthermore, despite growing awareness of the masterful female orators of the day—like South Carolina’s own Grimké sisters—Clariosophics insisted on women’s intellectual inferiority. Racism and sexism in South Carolina were, Sinha posits, two sides of the same coin: “Just as belief in race and class inequality complemented each other in Carolinian proslavery discourse, the justification of racial slavery led slavery ideologues to champion gender inequality” (90). Sinha contends, in fact, that racial, gender, and class inequality formed the ideological foundation of antebellum South Carolina’s peculiarly antidemocratic political structure. Their vindication of slavery, argues Sinha, caused Carolinian planter politicians to question the democratic ideals of universal liberty and equality, a challenge to the Declaration of Independence and to natural-rights theory that Sinha calls “counterrevolutionary.” For instance, proslavery theorists like Alfred Huger, David Gavin, and Albert Taylor Bledsoe blamed democracy and “the cult of egalitarianism” for slaveholders’ troubles (Sinha 225). And some Carolina planter politicians like James Henry Hammond went so far as to describe South Carolina’s government as an aristocracy (Sinha 226). The antidemocratic, counterrevolutionary rhetoric that Sinha documents is also reflected in many of the Clariosophics’ decisions: • Had the National Convention of France the right to depose Louis XVI? (debated on January 1, 1843, and decided negatively) • Ought the terms of Judgeship to be limited to a certainage? (argued on January 8, 1843, and decided negatively) • Was Cromwell an honest politician? (argued on November 22, 1845, and decided negatively) • Was the execution of Charles I justifiable? (argued January 17, 1846, and decided negatively) • Is an elective or hereditary monarchy better calculated to advance national prosperity? (argued on March 21, 1846, and decided negatively) • Was Brutus justified in assassinating Caesar? (argued on May 15, 1846, and decided negatively) • Is the primogeniture system a beneficial one to a nation? (argued on May 23, 1846, and decided negatively) • Should the Governor of our State be elected by the Legislature or the people? (argued on May 30, 1846, and decided affirmatively) • Should our Congressmen be governed by their own sentiments or by those of their constituents? (argued on November 2, 1846, and decided affirmatively) • Are the people more easily corrupted than the Legislature? (argued on January 9, 1847, and decided negatively) • Was the administration of Cromwell beneficial to liberty? (argued on January 15, 1847, and decided negatively) Debating Both Sides 347 Downloaded by Clariosophics favored laws that would extend public figures’ terms in office. They also preferred rule by an elite rather than by the people, even though they felt that the public was less vulnerable to corruption. And although they voted against the primogeniture system, members preferred a hereditary monarchy to elected representatives. What’s more, they defended monarchs like Louis XVI and Charles I and emperors like Julius Caesar while criticizing Brutus and Cromwell. In short, then, even though society debates provided a forum for airing divisive political<span class="Underline"> and social </span>issues<span class="Underline">, </span>members of the<span class="Underline"> Clariosophic </span>Societyconsistently voted to uphold<span class="Underline"> Carolinian </span>proslavery<span class="Underline">, </span>antidemocratic, and separatist positions. Furthermore, though these debates were politically charged, they may have been regarded as purely academic exercises that were ultimately irrelevant in political spheres. Indeed, this is what Charleston planter Hugh Legare implied when he dismissed the question of whether to justify or condemn slavery on principles of natural law, calling it “a very good thesis for young casuists to discuss in the college moot-club,” but one that he and his fellow politicians would not undertake “for we have no taste for abstractions” (qtd. in Forbes 93).

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<<Westbrook Continues>>__**</span></span>

Another reason<span class="Underline"> that</span>societies may <span class="Underline">have </span>failed to operate as forums for cultural<span class="Underline"> and political </span>critique is their emphasis on //<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">competition</span>// overinquiry. As Clariosophic Maxcy Gregg put it, students may have been “//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">arguing for victory,</span>// instead of inquiring for truth.” Without much at stake in questioning the status quo, members could dramatize radical ideas while keeping a safe distance from the subversive politics theyadvocated. And after it all, they could slide back into their comfortable positions and<span class="Underline"> even </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">pat themselves on the back for having argued “the other side</span>//.” In today’s universities, where “diversity” is the watchword, few students could get away with the kind of blatant sexism and racism that the Clariosophics flaunted. Nevertheless, students today can still assume subversive positions for the sake of a grade,<span class="Underline"> earn their mark, </span>and<span class="Underline"> then </span>retreat to their former ideologies<span class="Underline">, </span>feeling liberalized by the process. In fact, in “Community Service and Critical Teaching,” Bruce Herzberg shares his colleague’s experience of overhearing students admit to feigning exactly this kind of enlightenment in order to earn an “easy A” in a service-learning course (309). The critical question, then, is how to convince students—especially privileged ones—that more than their grades are at stake in classroom exercises that ask them to put their ideas and ideologies on the line.

<span class="Underline">**The status quo of debate is prefigured to let affirmatives only understand progress from one angle. Affirmatives are traditionally expected to affirm a government policy rather than engage the topic as agential subjects. There is nothing wrong with government policy; the Freeway Revolt illustrates how it is an essential ingredient of progressivism. The problem exists when the focus on government policy crowds out other approaches to debate. Dissent is not a negation of the topic, or some anti-topical advocacy, it is a productive and affirmative supplement to instrumental approaches—therefore, dissent affirms the direction of United States federal government action while providing a critique of the conventional methodology for policy implementation.** </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The Freeway Revolt represents a key point in the historical trajectory of transportation infrastructure that is made invisible by this topic. We have no capacity to topically affirm within the narrow limits of the resolution, nor do we have a capacity to make arguments about it on the negative because there is no real highways affirmative for us to dissent against. Surely, there are ways the discussion could be twisted into a topical affirmative or negative advocacy but in this the purpose of dissent is lost—in order to escape cooption we must protest the forces that would cage our criticism. Therefore, Robbie and I dissent against majoritarian understandings of the topic.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Dissent functions as a supplement to authority systems; therefore we can still affirm the direction of the topic while criticizing it. Dissent’s function is not to directly solve problems but to raise awareness in order to build coalitions.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Stitzlein 12 </span>SARAH M. STITZLEIN is Assistant Professor of Philosophy of Education and a core faculty member of the Women’s Studies Department at the University of New Hampshire THE RIGHT TO DISSENT AND ITS IMPLICATIONS FOR SCHOOLING Educational TheoryVolume 62, Issue 1, Article first published online: 16 JAN 2012

Dissent takes many forms, which, at times, overlap. <span class="Underline">The first type of dissent is that of the cultural critic, who interprets and critiques cultural events and practices in order to expose their shortcomings</span> and ultimately direct attention toward better ways of living. Cultural <span class="Underline">critics work to help others see some aspect of cultural practice, norms, or law that the community had not previously seen as problematic</span>. While these critics serve a valuable social role, their efforts typically stop at writings or speeches; they turn the continued, and often more challenging, aspects of the movement for change over to others. This brings us to <span class="Underline">the second type of </span>dissent, which involves building a movement to raise awarenessof an issue that has been<span class="Underline"> silenced or </span>ignored by the mainstream. This form of dissent may also entail making it known that some stakeholders do not agree with the view of those in power. Dissidents of this type put forward alternative information and form independent organizations, both noteworthy aspects of a healthy democracy.10 They may march, picket, or protest. While they may not<span class="Underline"> necessarily ‘‘</span>fix’’ a problem<span class="Underline">, </span>they make it known that there are people who disagree<span class="Underline">, </span>build solidarity with others who hold an alternative view, or destigmatize an issue by bringing it into public view through consciousness-raising. The third type uses dissent to change minds or practices. This targeted form of social change may play out under a picket sign, but it may also occurthrough<span class="Underline"> more </span>subtle democratic contributions<span class="Underline"> or participation </span>within thesystem the dissident seeks to change.It tends to be a far less flashy approach<span class="Underline">, </span>aimed at genuinely changing<span class="Underline"> the </span>opinions<span class="Underline"> of other people or of presenting alternative perspectives, </span>rather than just demanding their attention or urging them to do something differently. Such change of opinion, however, may require the instigation of controversy in order to challenge witnesses to question their beliefs and to consider alternative ones. The fourth type of dissent involves rallying one’s compatriots. The aim is not to change the minds of opposing groups, but rather to enliven, impassion, and ignite one’s supporters as a cheerleader of sorts. This ‘‘preaching to the choir’’ may involve sharing stories or facts that support a viewpoint held by one’s group or using coalition-building techniques and public announcement systems to mobilize one’s group.11

<span class="Underline">**This round may come down to a decision between dissent and conformity. You have an academic duty to support dissent in order to encourage complex and rigorous research methods along with open and accessible information.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gordon** **09** (Mordechai Gordon, Quinnipiac University, Hamden, CT, M. Gordon (ed.), Reclaiming Dissent: Civics Education for the 21st Century, 11–26. © 2009 [[https://www.sensepublishers.com/files/9789087908867PR.pdf]], //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">Based on the discussion above, it is clear that I think that dissent is indispensable for the life of a democracy and that recent **attempts to limit dissent in the United States pose a serious threat to some of our core values**. </span>Safeguarding dissent is essential for the welfareof<span class="Underline"> a </span>democracy<span class="Underline"> because it ensures that different and even opposing opinions will be considered before taking action. Moreover, protecting </span>dissent <span class="Underline">is vital since it </span>guarantees<span class="Underline"> that </span>unpopular viewpointswill be heard<span class="Underline"> rather than silenced. According to this view, arguments and </span>disagreements<span class="Underline"> are important because they </span>force people to think<span class="Underline">, </span>search for evidence<span class="Underline">, </span>and come up with convincing reasons<span class="Underline"> for their positions. In what follows, I would like to expand on the meaning and value of dissent by looking at the lessons we can learn from the examples of three famous dissidents: Socrates, Thoreau, and Angela Davis. The story of Socrates as it appears in the dialogues of Plato indicates that he loved to engage in dialogues with his fellow citizens from Athens. Socrates was relentless in his search for the truth. He was an expert at examining the opinions of his dialogue partners and evaluating them from multiple perspectives to see if they hold up to the test of reason and experience. Perhaps this is one of the reasons that the dialogues that Socrates takes part in so often seem to go around in circles, analyzing the same problem from different points of view, but never really reahing a definitive answer. Yet while it is true that Socrates does not provide us with conclusive definitions of virtue, justice, or love, he does help us gain a better understanding of these very complex and rich concepts. As such, Socrates embodies what it means to be a critical thinker: a person who takes nothing for granted and continuously engages in the process of questioning, doubting, analyzing, and revising his ideas. One of the instances in which Socrates presents his views on dissent is in the dialogue Gorgias. In this dialogue, Socrates engages in a discussion with Gorgias, Polus and Callicles, all famous orators, on the differences between the life of the orator and the life of the philosopher in the context of debating the nature of the moral life. In one of the pivotal moments in the dialogue, Socrates tells Callicles: And yet for my part, my good man, I think that it’s better to have my lyre or a chorus that I might lead out of tune and dissonant, and have the vast majority of men disagree with me and contradict me, than to be out of harmony with myself, to contradict myself, though I’m only one person. (Plato, 1987, p. 52) On the surface, the point that Socrates is making is that we should be careful not to contradict ourselves, that is, that we need to be consistent and logical in our arguments. More importantly, however, is the idea that </span>it is better to be true to oneselfanduphold<span class="Underline"> one’s </span>values than to constantly change one’s viewssothat one would remain popular and not offend others<span class="Underline">, even though the majority of people might disagree with you to. In light of Socrates’ experience, we can see that dissent is frequently related to critical thinking and the search for truth. This is not say that every dissident is a person who is committed to thinking and finding the truth. Yet historically speaking, dissidents were more often than not people who questioned popular beliefs and refused to take things for granted (e.g. Galileo, Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela). Moreover, for Socrates, dissent implies a willingness to stand tough against popular beliefs and an eagerness to defend the truth at all cost. In this view, </span>dissent <span class="Underline">and disagreement [</span>is<span class="Underline">] are </span>preferableto<span class="Underline"> consent and </span>conformity<span class="Underline"> because the former are likely to lead to a deeper understanding of complex issues like the nature of the good life and whether or not the United States should have attacked Iraq. </span>Consent and conformity,<span class="Underline"> on the other hand, </span>have<span class="Underline"> historically </span>led people to support <span class="Underline">misguided practices, unethical policies, and even </span>criminal acts<span class="Underline"> (the Holocaust is a case in point)4. Another instance in which Socrates discusses dissent is when he is forced to defend himself at his trial (Apology). One of the important arguments that Socrates makes at his trial is that </span>dissidentsare valuable because they<span class="Underline"> often </span>expose knowledgefrom which otherscan<span class="Underline"> greatly </span>benefit<span class="Underline">: “I think that god put me on the state something like that, to wake you up and persuade you and reproach you every one, as I keep settling on you everywhere all day long” (Rouse, 1965, 436). </span>Conformists<span class="Underline">, on the other hand, can </span>deprive the public of invaluable information<span class="Underline"> and even tacitly support criminal acts. Cass Sunstein (2003) summarizes this point well: Conformists are often thought to be protective of social interests, keeping quiet for the sake of the group. By contrast, dissenters tend to be seen as selfish individualists, embarking on projects of their own. But in an important sense, the opposite is closer to the truth. Much of the time, </span>dissenters benefit others, while conformists benefit themselves<span class="Underline">. If people threaten to blow the whistle on wrongdoing or disclose facts that contradict an emerging group consensus, they might well be punished. Perhaps they will lose their jobs, face ostracism, or at least have some difficult months. (p. 6) Dissenters are important for democratic societies not only because they expose various dangerous truths but also because they often speak out and struggle against unjust laws and practices. Here, I think, the example of Henry David Thoreau is instructive. In an introduction to a collection of Thoreau’s writings, Joseph Wood Krutch notes that the slavery question drove Thoreau, who in the earlier part of his life would have been inclined to withdraw from society and immerse himself in nature, to fight against this grave injustice: “To Thoreau, who cherished individual freedom as the most precious of human rights, slavery could not but be the blackest of evils, and so, in time, he was to find himself somewhat incongruously enrolled among the defenders of the active abolitionists” (Thoreau, 1962, p. 13). Indeed, in January of 1848, Thoreau delivered a lecture at the Concord lyceum in which he preached complete, yet nonviolent resistance to any authority which is unjust. Presumably, this lecture became the basis for his famous essay “Civil Disobedience,” which was published the following year. In this essay, Thoreau (1962) declared that respect for the law is evil if it conflicts with respect for fundamental human rights such as freedom: Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at once? Men generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. It makes it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to be on the alert to point out its faults, and do better than it would have them? (p. 92) Here Thoreau clearly suggests that consent to the law of the land is not always a good thing and that there are instances in which it is better to transgress rather than follow unjust decrees. For Thoreau, the government and the majority that support it are not inclined to correct the wrongs since it would mean relinquishing some of their power and changing the status quo. Therefore, </span>it is up to the minority<span class="Underline"> and ordinary citizens </span>to<span class="Underline"> call attention to and </span>struggle against<span class="Underline"> those </span>laws and practices<span class="Underline">, </span>like slavery, that are blatantly opposed to<span class="Underline"> the basic principals of </span>democracy<span class="Underline">. As Sunstein writes, Diversity, openness, and dissent reveal actual and incipient problems. They improve society’s pool of information and make it more likely that serious issues will be addressed. I do not deny that great suffering can be found in democracies as elsewhere. There is no guarantee, from civil liberties alone, that such suffering will be minimized… But at least it can be said that **a society which permits dissent and does not impose conformity is in a far better position to be aware of, and to correct, serious social problems**</span>.

**State reform adopts many facets—dissent is one avenue through which reform is exercised. Our affirmative’s ambivalence to the state is the most tactical understanding.** 
**Clarke 08** John, Professor of Social Policy, Social Policy and Criminology "Reconstructing nation, state and welfare: The transformation of welfare states" In: Seeleib-Kaiser, Martin ed. Welfare State Transformations: Comparative Perspectives. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 197–209.

__Each of the terms here – welfare, state and nation – has been the focus of multiple challenges__ (Clarke, 2004). __‘Anti-welfarism’, for example, combines and condenses social movement critiques of welfare’s inadequacy, inaccessibility, and demeaning conditionality, welfare providers’ anxieties and frustrations about the problems of managing relations with ‘client groups’, and neo-conservative as well as neo-liberal critiques of ‘welfare dependency’. That such neo-liberal and neo-conservative challenges have become the dominant position in the reform of some national welfare provision (most notably in the USA__, of course) __should not disguise the multiple and contradictory orientations that are condensed in anti-welfarism and the drive to ‘welfare reform’__. Active subjects are not only the fantasy of neo-liberals. __Similarly, ‘anti-statism’ condenses many different doubts about, and challenges to, the authoritative position of the state as a ‘power’ in, and over, society. Even those who have viewed the state as the best available ‘engine’ for social improvement have doubts about both its effectiveness and about its ‘dark side’: the exercise of power and authority without adequate controls__ (‘social control’ in the older socialist sense). Social movements in both the North and the South have both looked to states to underwrite rights, justice and equality, while at the same time looking to an active and powerful civil society as a means of both challenging and making demands on the state. This is the double dynamic that Dagnino’s analysis of social movements in Brazil makes visible – driving both demands on the state and demands for its transformation. __Such ambivalence about the state needs to be kept in view even as we take note of the dominance of neo-liberal ‘market liberating’ discourses of anti-statism – both in some national settings and in international organisational settings of ‘global governmentality’__ (Larner and Walters, 2004). __Projects of state reform are rarely singular and coherent__ (Clarke et al, 2007). __The remaking of the apparatuses, practices and personnel through which the social is governed has been shaped by different forces – and has taken different forms.__ We might also want to consider how state reform projects have typically been about much more than the ‘welfare state’, but about remaking the whole architecture of governance and the relationships between state and society, state and economy, as well as inter-state relations. Questions posed in debates about governance and governmentality, arguments about states becoming ‘disaggregated’, or the shifting relationships between different modes of authority have had little impact on the discussion of welfare states (as though welfare states were somehow separate from states: see, inter alia, Newman, 2005; Slaughter, 2004; Hansen and SalskovIversen, forthcoming; van Berkel, 2007). 

<span class="Underline">**Vote affirmative to resonate with our dissent. Our coalition has disparate roots but a similar goal, signing your ballot adds momentum to the force of our resistance.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Holloway 10**</span> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 17-20)

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Imagine a sheet of ice covering a dark lake of possibility. We scream 'NO' so loud that the ice begins to crack. What is it that is uncovered?What is that dark liquid</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">that</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> (sometimes, not always) slowly or quickly bubbles</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> up </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">through the crack? We shall call it dignity</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The crack</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> in the ice </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">moves</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">unpredictable</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, sometimes racing, sometimes slowing</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, sometimes widening, sometimes narrowing, sometimes freezing over again and disappearing, sometimes reappearing.All around the lake there are people doing the same thing </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">as we are, screaming 'NO' as loud as they can, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">creating cracks </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">that move just as cracks in ice do, unpredictably, spreading</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, racing to join up with other cracks,</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">some being frozen over again</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The stronger the flow of dignity within them, the greater the force of the cracks.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Serve no more, La Boetie tells us, and we shall at once be free. The break begins with refusal, with No</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. No, we shall not tend your sheep, plough your fields, make your car, do your examinations. The truth of the relation of power is revealed: the powerful depend on the powerless.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The lord depends on his serfs, the capitalist depends on the workers who create his capital. But the real force of the serve no more comes when we do something else instead. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Serve no more, and then what? If we just fold our arms and do nothing at all, we soon face the problem of starvation. The serve no more, if it does not lead to an other-doing, an alternative activity, can easily become converted into a negotiation of the terms of servitude</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. The </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">workers who say 'no' and cross their arms, or go on strike, are implicitly saying 'no, we shall not carry out this command</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">', or 'we shall not carry on working under these conditions.' </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This does not exclude the continuation of servitude </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">(of the relationship of employment) </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">under other conditions</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. The 'serve no more' becomes a step in the negotiation of new conditions of servitude. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It is a different matter when the </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">negation becomes a negation-and- creation</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. This is a more serious challenge. The </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">workers say 'no' and </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">they </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">take over the factory</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> They declare that they do not need a boss and begin to call for a world without bosses.2 Think of the sad story of </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Mr Peel,</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> who, Marx tells us ... </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">took with him to Swan River</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, West Australia, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">means of subsistence and of production to the amount of 50,000 pounds</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. Mr. Peel had the foresight to bring with him, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">besides, 3,000 persons of the working-class, men, women and children.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Once arrived at his destination, 'Mr. Peel was left without a servant to make his bed or fetch him water from the river.' Unhappy Mr. Peel who provided for everything except the export of English modes of production to Swan River. (1867/1965: 766; 1867/1990: 933) </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">What happened was</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> that land was still freely available in Swan River, so that </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the 3,000 persons of the working class went off and cultivated their own land.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> One can imagine the scene as the unhappy Mr. Peel's initial anger, when </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the workers refused to carry out his orders</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, turned to despair when he saw them </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">going off to develop an alternative life free of masters.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The availability of land made it possible for them to convert their refusal into a decisive rupture and to develop an activity quite different from that planned for them by Mr. Peel. Think of the exciting story of the teachers in Puebla.3 When the government announced in 2008 the creation of a new scheme to improve the quality of education by imposing greater individualism, stronger competition between students, stricter measurement of the output of teachers, and so on the teachers said 'No, we will not accept it.' When the government refused to listen, the dissident teachers moved beyond mere refusal and in consultation with thousands of students and parents, elaborated their own proposal for improving the quality of education by promoting greater. cooperation between students, more emphasis on critical thinking, preparation for cooperative work not directly subordinate to capital, and began to explore ways of implementing their scheme in opposition to the state guidelines, by taking control of the schools.4 Here too the initial refusal begins to open towards something else, towards an educational activity that not only resists but breaks with the logic of capital. In both of these cases, the No is backed by an other-doing. This is the dignity that can fill the cracks created by the refusal. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The original </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Nois</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> then </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">notaclosure</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">butanopeningtoadifferentactivity</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, the threshold of a counter-world with a different logic and a different language</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">No opens to</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> a </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">time-space in which we try to live as subjects rather than objects</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. These are times or spaces in which we assert our capacity to decide for ourselves what we should do</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> - whether it be chatting with our friends, playing with our children, cultivating the land </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">in a different way, developing and implementing projects for a critical education</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. These are times or spaces in which we take control of our own lives, assume the responsibility of our own humanity. Dignity is the unfolding of the power of No. Our refusal confronts us with the opportunity, necessity and responsibility of developing our own capacities. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The women and men who left Mr. Peel in the lurch were confronted with the opportunity and necessity of developing abilities suppressed by their previous condition of servitude.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The teachers who reject the state textbooks are forced to develop another education. The assumption of responsibility for our own lives is in itself a break with the logic of domination. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This does not mean that everything will turn out to be perfect. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The dignity is a breaking</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, a negating, a moving, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">an exploring</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">We must be careful not to</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> convert it into a positive concept that might </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">giveit</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> a </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">deadeningfixity</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.The women and men who deserted Mr. Peel may well have turned into small landholders who defended their property against all newcomers</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. The teachers who take their schools to create a critical education may possibly reproduce authoritarian practices as bad as those which they are rejecting. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It is </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">themoving</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">isimportant</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">themovingagainst-and-beyond</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">: </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">thenegatingandcreatingofthosewhoabandoned</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Mr. Peel, more than the new spaces that they created;</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> the taking of the schools by the teachers, more than the schools that they have taken. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It is the assuming of our own responsibility that is important, though the results may well be contradictory</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.6 </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Dignity, the movement of negating-and-creating, of taking control of our own lives</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, is not a simple matter: it is, we said, a dark liquid bubbling up from a lake of possibility. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">To give a positive solidity to what can only be a moving of refusing and creating and exploring can easily lead to disillusion. A pro-Zapatista collective, or a social centre</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, or a group of piqueteros </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">ends in conflict and disarray and we conclude that it was all an illusion, instead of seeing that such dignities are inevitably contradictory and experimental. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The cracks are always questions,notanswers. It is important not to romanticise the cracks, or give them a positive force that they do not possess. And</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> yet, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">thisis where we start: from the cracks,</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> the fissures, the rents, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the spaces of rebellious negation</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">-and-creation</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. We start from the particular, notfromthetotality.</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> We start from the world of misfitting, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">from the multiplicity of particular rebellions</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, dignities, cracks, not from the great unified Struggle that simply does not exist, nor from the system of domination</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. We start from being angry and lost and trying to create something else, because that is where we live, that is where we are. Perhaps it is a strange place to start, but we are looking for a strange thing. We are looking for hope in a dark night. 7 </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">We are trying to theorise hope-against-hope. This is surely the only subject matter of theory that is left. </span>

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]