=Contact= 

neilp1215@gmail.com




=Round 1= 

Aff: River Hill CL w/ Railroad Raperations

1nc: t-maintenance, politics, state PIC, speaking for others k, f/w - can't be discursive representations, case
2nc: f/w, k, case
1nr: pxs.
2nr: pxs. and case



=Round 2= 

We were Aff against PACE CK



Master 1AC File - NDCA



1AC TOC Natural Gas - 1

Contention 1 – Solvency

Contention () is Solvency –

LNG terminals are necessary to boost exports – only way to benefit
Helman 12 ([[http://blogs.forbes.com/christopherhelman/|Christopher Helman]], Forbes Staff, “The U.S. Has A Natural Gas Glut; Why Exporting It As LNG Is A Good Idea,” 6/13/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/energysource/2012/06/13/the-u-s-has-a-natural-gas-glut-why-exporting-it-as-lng-is-a-good-idea/]]) GANGEEZY
The emergence of shale gas has caused natural gas prices in North America to drop
AND
and at the right time to capitalize on North American LNG export projects.
Contention 1 – Solvency
Fed needs to invest in the infrastructure to generate private sector involvement in the long-run
EOA 12 - United States Energy Resource Organization in coordination with the American Energy Alliance and the Institute for Energy Research, (Energy for America, “BUSINESSWEEK: CHEAP NATURAL GAS MAKES U.S. SURPRISE ENERGY POWER”, 10/01/12, EOA,[[http://www.energyforamerica.org/2012/10/01/businessweek-cheap-natural-gas-makes-u-s-surprise-energy-power/]], CJD)
What does it mean to be the world’s #1 natural gas producer? Dirty
AND
gas production, but the reality is that we can do even more.
Contention 1 – Solvency
Without terminals, there is no natural gas – plan is key to sustain natural gas production
Maykuth 12 (ANDREW MAYKUTH / THE PHILADELPHIA Insider, “With success, natural gas industry eyes exports,” 9/29/12, [[@http://articles.philly.com/2012-09-24/business/34041775_1_american-public-gas-association-natural-gas-export]]) GANGEEZY
PHILADELPHIA—The natural-gas industry is drowning in its own success.¶ Drilling
AND
As technology develops, there’s no telling how high those numbers will go.”
Contention 1 – Solvency
Even if permits are approved, an increase in infrastructure is key
Handley 13 ([[http://www.usnews.com/topics/author/meg_handley|MEG HANDLEY]], Staff Writer for U.S. News Report, “Senators: Give Green Light to Gas Exports,” February 1, 2013, [[http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2013/02/01/senators-give-green-light-to-gas-exports]]) GANGEEZY
The benefit of using exports to enhance diplomatic relationships outside NATO member countries also exists
AND
additional decisions on pending permit applications aren't expected to be made anytime soon.

Contention 1 – Solvency
Debate now over export approvals non-uniques your disads though
Reuters 4/1 (“Dominion signs deals to export U.S. natural gas from Cove Point,” Apr 1, 2013, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/04/01/us-lng-dominion-export-idUSBRE9300CH20130401]]) GANGEEZY
(Reuters) - Dominion Energy ([[http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=D.N|D.N]]) has signed two deals
AND
procurement and [[http://www.reuters.com/sectors/industries/overview?industryCode=46&lc=int_mb_1001|construction]] (EPC) contract for the plant, Dominion said.

Plan Text

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in liquefied natural gas transportation infrastructure in the United States.

Contention 2 is Turkey Relations

Contention 2 is Turkey Relations –

Turkey is dependent on Iranian imports but sanctions on Iranian natural gas threaten their access – new supplies are needed

Senate Minority Staff Report 12
(“Energy and Security from the Caspian to Europe”, Prepared for the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, December 12, p.[[http://www.foreign.senate.gov/publications/download/energy-and-security-from-the-caspian-to-europe)]]
Turkey imports the remaining 20 percent of its gas from Iran pursuant to a 1996
AND
under the Bush Administration to jumpstart alternative energy investments in Turkey have atrophied.



Specifically, US sanctions are pressuring Turkey over buying Iranian natural gas – this hurts US-Turkey relations
Financial Times, 2012 (“Turkey-Iran: gold for gas US scrutiny”, November 28, p.[[http://blogs.ft.com/beyond-brics/2012/11/28/turkey-iran-gold-for-gas-gets-us-scrutiny/#axzz2JV7UWenO)|http://blogs.ft.com/beyond-brics/2012/11/28/turkey-iran-gold-for-gas-gets-us-scrutiny/#axzz2JV7UWenO)]]
More pressure is coming Turkey’s way over gas purchases from Iran. After the
AND
but it never quite reaches the crisis point where it produces nuclear weapons.”
Contention 2 is Turkey Relations
Turkey rebuffs sanctions against Iran due to its natural gas needs – this hurts US-Turkish relations
Aliriza et al., Director and Senior Associate of the Turkey Project at CSIS, 2012

(Bulent, “U.S.-Turkish Relations: A Review at the Beginning of the Third Decade of the Post-Cold War Era”, November 13, p.[[http://csis.org/files/publication/121107_Aliriza_USTurkishRelations_Web.pdf)]]
Turkey’s effort to maintain good relations with Iran has necessitated a difficult balancing act with
AND
U.S.-sponsored package of sanctions at the UN Security Council.


Asking Turkey to abide by Iranian sanctions on natural gas without exporting to them creates tensions – exports solve
Brown, Senior Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Staff, December 19, 2012

(Neil, “Energy and Security from the Caspian to Europe”, Atlantic Council Event, December 19, p. [[http://www.acus.org/event/energy-and-security-caspian-europe/transcript)]]
Coincidentally, that study came out at the same time as our report just two
AND
we were saying we would not also export our domestic gas to you.
Contention 2 is Turkey Relations
Independently, stepping up the pressure on Iran prevents Iran nuclearization
Rubin ‘12 (Michael Rubin, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, January 4, 2012, “The West should hand Iran's leadership a chalice of poison,” [[http://www.aei.org/article/foreign-and-defense-policy/the-west-should-hand-irans-leadership-a-chalice-of-poison/]])
To relieve economic and military pressure on Iran would be counterproductive. So long as
AND
nearly half its value. Unemployment and inflation are both in double digits.




That causes nuclear war and terrorism
Henzel 12/29 (John is a Masters’ candidate at the Whitehead School of Diplomacy and International relations. He is specializing in international security and foreign policy analysis. Deconstructing Policy Responses to the Iranian Nuclear Program, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy (At Senton Hall University).[[@http://blogs.shu.edu/diplomacy/2012/12/deconstructing-policy-responses-to-the-iranian-nuclear-program/]], December 29, 2012)
Of foremost concern, is the question of if Iran should be allowed to acquire
AND
far less scruples in handling its nuclear materials than in other nuclear states.
Contention 2 is Turkey Relations
US-Turkey relations are key to Afghan stability
Aliriza and Aras, 2012, U.S.-Turkish Relations: a review at the beginning of the third decade of the post–cold war era, November, CSIS; Center for Strategic Research; Bulent, Bulent, p. 16
U.S.-Turkish cooperation in the Afghanistan-Pakistan (Af-Pak
AND
to cooperate as Turkey contributes to the “Afghanization” of security and reconstruction



Afghanistan instability will destabilize Pakistan- that also risks nuclear war with India
Cronin, 2013, Washington Quarterly, Thinking Long on Afghanistan: Could it be Neutralized? Winter, Professor of Public Policy at George Mason University; Audrey Kurth, p. 66
Well into preparations for post-/ISAF Afghanistan, Pakistan poses the greatest obstacle to
AND
is a territorially secure, independent state that is proxy to no one.
Contention 2 is Turkey Relations
Pakistan instability causes nuclear war
Pitt ‘9 (New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)
But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep
AND
to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.

Contention 2 is Turkey Relations
Best new studies prove Indo-pak war would cause extinction
Starr ’11 (Consequences of a Single Failure of Nuclear Deterrence by Steven Starr February 07, 2011 * Associate member of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation * Senior Scientist for PSR
Only a single failure of nuclear deterrence is required to start a nuclear war,
AND
the currently operational and deployed U.S. and Russian nuclear forces.
Afghan instability risks intervention by outside powers leading to nuclear war
Cronin, 2013, Washington Quarterly, Thinking Long on Afghanistan: Could it be Neutralized? Winter, Professor of Public Policy at George Mason University; Audrey Kurth, p. 70
With ISAF withdrawal inevitable, a sea change is already underway: the question is
AND
/except this time the outcome could be not just terrorism but nuclear war

Contention 3 – Ukraine
Contention 3 is Ukraine –

Russia is using natural gas as a weapon to force Ukraine to join the Customs Union, which is mutually exclusive with EU’s Association Agreement
Konończuk, Head of the Department for Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova at the Centre for Eastern Studies, February 1, 2013

(Wojciech, “Gas as an Instrument of Russian Pressure on Ukraine”, Natural Gas Europe, p.[[http://www.naturalgaseurope.com/ukraine-russia-gas-dispute)]]
On 26 January the [[@http://www.naturalgaseurope.com/russia-ukraine-gas-dispute-building|Financial Times]], citing a source in the Ukrainian government,
AND
determined to use Ukraine's economic difficulties to bring about its own political interests.

Contention 3 – Ukraine
Eliminating Russian influence would prevent Ukraine from splintering causing Crimean secession resulting in world war
THE GUARDIAN 9-16-2008
(http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2008/sep/16/ukraine.russia)
In the harbour, elderly ladies in floral swimming costumes bob in the warm lilac
AND
agreed to finance the Russian community's newspaper - a small but insidious step.




That leads to a nuclear World War 3
Kingston 9 (Brian, Norman Paterson School of International Affairs – CIFP, “Ukraine: A Risk Assessment Report”, February, [[http://www.carleton.ca/cifp/app/serve.php/1214.pdf)]]
Russia: Russia seeks to influence the weakened Ukraine, inflaming ethnic-Russian separatism
AND
nuclear war, or at least the drawing in of many other countries.
Contention 3 – Ukraine
Also, Associated Agreement with the EU is critical to prevent Ukrainian collapse
Umland, Associate Professor of Political Science at the National University of “Kiev-Mohyla Academy”, February 22, 2013

(Andreas, “How Ukraine Might Blow Its Historic Opportunity”, The National Interest, p.[[http://nationalinterest.org/print/commentary/how-ukraine-might-blow-its-historic-opportunity-8132)]]
After five years of intense negotiations, Ukraine and the European Union are on the
AND
lost sight of any proportion, and talked itself into an alternate reality of
Contention 3 – Ukraine

EU-Ukraine relations. While Ukraine has a unique chance with the scheduled signing
AND
catastrophic—if the Ukrainians miss this opportunity to finally determine their destiny.

Contention 3 – Ukraine
Ukranian stability is critical to European peace and preventing Russian imperialism
SLOVAK ATLANTIC COMMISSION 2008
(“Why Ukraine matters to Europe,” www.ata-sac.org/index.php?cmd=print&sid=181&aid=237)
The conflict in Georgia in August 2008 is making the EU rethink its approach to
AND
more foresight and determination in shaping Eastern Europe in the EU’s own image.
European war escalates and goes nuclear
Glaser ‘93 [Charles, Assistant Prof Public Policy Studies – U Chicago, International Security, Vol 18, No. 1, Summer)
However, although the lack of an imminent Soviet threat eliminates the most obvious danger
AND
. Thus, the United States should not be unconcerned with Europe’s future.
Contention 3 – Ukraine
Russian imperialism causes an immediate nuclear attack on the US—outweighs the DA because it circumvents the ladder of escalation
PRY 1999 (Peter Vincent, former intelligence analyst, War Scare, p. 277, Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)
Russian internal troubles—such as a leadership crisis, coup, or civil war
AND
Russian affairs, with the West ignorant that it was in grave peril.
Contention 3 – Ukraine
Plan solves Russian influence in Ukraine – they would get the gas from us instead
Cohen and Graham, Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, Research Assistant at the Heritage Foundation, 2009
[Ariel Cohen, Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security at the Katherine and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, Owen Graham, Research Assistant at the Davis Institute, “Can Europe Be Taken Hostage by Russia’s Natural Gas Supply?,” The Cutting Edge, [[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=1071&pageid=&pagename]]=,
It is clear that Russia has not ceased its efforts to use energy as a
AND
United States to diversify sources of energy and stand up to Russian bullying.



Barack Obama is to make a pitch for a second four years in the White
AND
huge impact on our lives and our children's lives for decades to come."



=Round 3= 


Aff: Bishop Guertin w/ Islamaphobia

1nc: speaking for others k, f/w, case
2nc: f/w
1nr: case
2nr: f/w



=Round 4= 

We were aff against C.E. Byrd

1ac: new oil advantage, ASEAN from Harvard, solvencyb

**Oil dependence increases the risk of war**
**Glaser 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs at The George Washington University, “Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security,” August 2011, Online, Doc, if anyone needs this article email me at neilp1215@gmail.com) GANGEEZY</span>
Military capability is threatened by insecure access to oil ¶ Oil dependence could reduce a
AND
drawn in to protect Japan and consequently involved in a war with China.

**Additionally oil shocks cause war**
**Roberts 04**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)</span>
The obsessive focus on oil is hardly surprising, given the stakes. In the
AND
risk to prosperity and stability and simple survival than terrorism or even war.

u.s. oil dependence destroys US power projection in every global region


AND
, “American military spending and oil dependency”, February 9, 2012)
One of the most crucial problems facing the United States is whether it will be
AND
eliminated. Americans should ask themselves why these solutions are not being implemented.

**Abesnt effective u.s. hegemony global wars will ensue**
Brooks, Ikenberry, and Wohlforth ’13 (Stephen, Associate Professor of Government at
AND
. 3 (Winter 2012/13), pp. 7–51)
A core premise of deep engagement is that it prevents the emergence of a far
AND
that of potential rivals is by many measures growing rather than shrinking. 85


**Engagement is inevitable – its just a question of effectiveness**
**Dorfman ‘12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zach Dorfman, Zach Dorfman is assistant editor of Ethics & International Affairs, the journal of the Carnegie Council, and co-editor of the Montreal Review, an online magazine of books, art, and culture, “What We Talk About When We Talk About Isolationism”, [[http://dissentmagazine.org/online.php?id=605]], May 18, 2012, LEQ)</span>
The idea that global military dominance and political hegemony is in the U.S
AND
come and go, but the national security state appears here to stay.

**Oil independence is inevitable – natural gas facilitates the transition**
**Gibson 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/contributors/thomas-gibson.php|Thomas Gibson]], President & CEO, American Iron and Steel Institute, “Shale Natural Gas Biggest Game-Changer,” September 9, 2012, [[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/seeking-elusive-energy-indepen.php#2243543|http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/seeking-elusive-energy-indepen.php#2243543]]) GANGEEZY</span>
The United States is moving closer to the goal of being able to supply all
AND
, create thousands of jobs and spur economic growth for years to come.

**Natural gas reduces US oil dependence**
**Ganos 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://blogs.forbes.com/toddganos/|Todd Ganos]], Contributor, “Breaking U.S. Dependence On Foreign Oil,” 1/3/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/toddganos/2012/01/03/breaking-u-s-dependence-on-foreign-oil/]]) GANGEEZY</span>
We’ve heard the beating of the drum time and time again: “We must
AND
final solution, it might well be the steppingstone that gets us there.

**US natural gas market will crash without exports**
**Hulbert and Goldthau 8-5-12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew, consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations, and Andreas, prior to joining CEU, he worked for Rand, SWP Germany and the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a Fellow with the Global Public Policy Institute’s Global Energy Governance program and an Adjunct Professor with Johns Hopkins University’s MSc in Energy Policy and Climate, Goldthau, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Central European University, an American graduate school based in Budapest, Hungary, “Why America Can Make or Break A New Global Gas World,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/05/why-america-can-make-or-break-a-new-global-gas-world/print/)</span>
The same debate is raging in the US. Despite the phenomenal breakthroughs in American
AND
fundamentals. US LNG could be the straw that breaks oil indexation back.



=Round 5= 

New Aff



====Contention one is Antarctic Science –==== 

====First is Russia -==== 
====Harsher winters will decimate russian ag production – more productivity is necessary==== 
**Zhurenkov 4/4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kirill Zhurenkov, [[http://www.kommersant.com/about.asp|KOMMERSANT]], World Crunch News, “AFTER HORRIFIC WINTER, RUSSIAN FARMERS WORRY ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE,” 2013-04-04, [[http://www.worldcrunch.com/business-finance/after-horrific-winter-russian-farmers-worry-about-climate-change/russia-crops-grains-weather-snow/c2s11329/#.UXIxgbXvvzw|http://www.worldcrunch.com/business-finance/after-horrific-winter-russian-farmers-worry-about-climate-change/russia-crops-grains-weather-snow/c2s11329/#.UXIxgbXvvzw]]) GANGEEZY</span>
MOSCOW - The past month has brought record-breaking snowfall and cold snaps throughout
AND
used in the hot months and to start cultivating drought-tolerant crops.
====Russian economy is strong now but agriculture is critical to keep it diverse – that’s key to their economy==== 
**DELANEY 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Martin, “Russia: The Wild East,”1/26/11 Investment And Pensions Europe)</span>
However, many would argue they are wrong. "There are important reforms going
AND
is the time that the great fortunes of the future are being made.

====That goes nuclear==== 
**FILGER 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
In Russia historically, economic health and political stability are intertwined to a degree that
AND
the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.
====Freeze resistance crops are key to improving agricultural productivity – that prevents a coming food crisis==== 
**Kumar and Bhatt 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Narendra Kumar and R. P. Bhatt, Directorate of Life Sciences, DRDO Bhawan, New Delhi-110011, India Transgenics for cold tolerance, “Transgenics : An emerging approach for cold tolerance to enhance vegetables production in high altitude areas,” Indian J. Crop Science, 1(1-2): 8-12 (2006), [[http://www.satishserial.com/issn0973-4880/chapter02.pdf]]) GANGEEZY</span>
Freezing temperature greatly limits the geographical distribution of cultivated plants and often causes severe losses
AND
be efficiently moved from a resource based to a science-based industry.
====Famine causes nuclear war==== 
CRIBB 2010 (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor
AND
crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 26)
This is the most likely means by which the coming famine will affect all citizens
AND
widening gap between food and energy supplies and peoples' need to secure them.

====Polar science key to freeze resistant crops and biomedical advances==== 
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her
AND
a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW
Animals in the Arctic do not freeze to death when their core body temperature falls
AND
.g., development of improved cryopreservation techniques) (NRC, 2004).

====The future of science diplomacy rests on the ability to effectively conduct Antarctic science operations – Antarctica uniquely provides a global spillover in science tech==== 
**Collins 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11, [[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php]]) JPG</span>
The success of world co-operation based on science and practiced since the Cold
AND
and people to work together in decision-making on shared global interests."


====Science diplomacy is the best way to prevent war==== 
**Krasnodebska 12**—<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Contributing Researcher for the USC Center for Conflict Prevention. Master of Public Diplomacy, USC (Molly, Conflict Prevention, http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/index.php/newswire/media_monitor_reports_detail/science_diplomacy/)</span>
Science diplomacy can function as a tool for conflict prevention and be understood as fostering
AND
as Indonesia, Malaysia and Pakistan where vaccine diplomacy is currently being implemented.

**Contention two is Navy -**

====Naval readiness solves multiple scenarios of war==== 
**Cropsey 10 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute. Previously, he served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy during both the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations. (Seth, September 1, “Ebb Tide” [[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7235]]) Jacome </span>
Only one statement can be made with certainty about the future of the U.
AND
conflicts. Its absence or abject weakness would be an invitation to calamity.

====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There’s no root cause of war – only deterrence works</span>**</span>==== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Moore 04**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?


**Now we solve – weather monitoring allows us to garner information on climatic conditions which is key military effectiveness**
**Conathan 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, former staff member on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation’s Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, holds an M.A. in Marine Affairs from the University of Rhode Island, 2011 (Michael, February 18th, “A Forecast for Disaster: Stormy Conditions Await if NOAA Funding Is Cut,” Center for American Progress,http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/noaa_funding.html) Jacome</span>
The United States needs these satellites if we’re to continue providing the best weather and
AND
wind conditions, for example, can prohibit mid-air refueling operations.

**Climate science is essential to decision making**
**Rogers and Gulledge ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security and **Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change (Will and Jay, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for New American Security, April,** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]) </span>**
**Climate change will likely exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, water scarcity and extreme**
**AND**
**today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges.**

Independently – plan is key to naval readiness
Winokur 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert, June 22, “</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore]]) Jacome</span>**
**Strategic planners have long used climatological records to provide guidance on weather and sea conditions**
**AND**
**inform future investments and broaden cooperative partnerships, while adapting to fundamental changes.**

Access to McMurdo station provides global data – ground stations need to remain operational
**Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her**
**AND**
**a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW**
**McMurdo Station is one of the ground stations for the National Polar-orbiting Operational**
**AND**
**transfer may be interrupted and hinder long-range weather and climate forecasts.**

Labs at the South Pole are key to climate monitoring and NASA near-space balloon launches
**Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her**
**AND**
**a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW**
**The Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory at South Pole Station is one of four National**
**AND**
**astronomy, cosmic rays, and atmospheric studies have been made from balloons.**


Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its Antarctic transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**


====Antarctica is essential for science – no other place provides its unique settings==== 
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her
AND
a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW
Because science and engineering research in the polar regions is critical to U.S
AND
systems, but they also play a pivotal role in global Earth systems.

====Contention 3 is Solvency -==== 
====Antarctica is essential for science – no other place provides its unique settings==== 
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her
AND
a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW
Because science and engineering research in the polar regions is critical to U.S
AND
systems, but they also play a pivotal role in global Earth systems.
====The plan is key to resupplying our Antarctic scientific presence==== 
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her
AND
a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW
Another step in reducing the risk to the USAP from the dependence on annual delivery
AND
ground traverse between McMurdo Station and South Pole Station has now been completed.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These </span>logistical changes would also allow existing resources to be used to support <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**new** expeditionary **science**</span> and other program priorities<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a large number of valuable L</span>C-130<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> aircraft </span>flight hours<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—currently expended on fuel, cargo, and personnel transport flights between McMurdo and South Pole Stations—</span>could be used to access parts<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of Antarctica that are now difficult or impossible for USAP to support by air from </span>McMurdo Station<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

====Icebreakers are key, but we don’t have enough in the status quo==== 
**O’Rourke 3/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress,” March 26, 2013, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf]]) GANGEEZY</span>
Regarding current polar icebreaking capabilities for performing Antarctic missions, the report states: The
AND
foreign facilities in Antarctica to enforce the Antarctic Treaty and ensure facilities’ environment compliance23

====We need resiliency – even if we somehow resolve the icebreaker situation there will be supply disruptions – these literally starve everyone on the continent==== 
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her
AND
a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW
A review of the current USAP logistics plan highlighted that a single point of potential
AND
logistics plus net USAP energy savings that can then be applied to science.

Barack Obama is to make a pitch for a second four years in the White
AND
huge impact on our lives and our children's lives for decades to come."




=Round 6= 


Aff: National Park Service TI against New Trier MC
1nc: china fdi cp, privatization cp, advantage cp, politics, locavore, case
2nc: cp, case
1nr: pxs.
2nr: cp and pxs.