[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Neg vs Icebreakers (Alpharetta BM)

1NC Ptix- Immigration
====CIR passage likely but not guaranteed- Obama push will be successful==== 
Erica <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Werner</span>, Associated Press <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">4-18</span>-2013 [[http://nbclatino.com/2013/04/18/obama-has-a-chance-to-come-through-on-promise-of-immigration-reform/]]

Congress<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and a succession of presidents have </span>recognizedthe need to rework<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the nation’s </span>immigration<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> laws. George W. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bush tried</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in his second term, working with Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., among others. </span>Their<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> comprehensive </span>legislation collapsed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on the Senate floor </span>in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 20</span>07<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> amid a fierce public backlash and interest group opposition. Obama himself promised to try to get it done his first term. To the disappointment of Latino voters, he didn’t deliver.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Thistime<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> around</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">chances are a lot better Obama will make good on his promise</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to rewrite</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the nation’s </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">immigration</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> laws to strengthen the border, crack down on employers, smooth legal immigration and provide eventual citizenship to people in the country illegally. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even after a</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> bipartisan </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Senate group releasedlegislation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> this week to accomplish those goals, </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">success is still no sure thing</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>////<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">¶</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And if Obama does end up signing a bill later this year or next, it won’t be only because of his own efforts. Arguably the single biggest factor making the political climate ripe for change is a marked shift in attitude among Republican officeholders and voters after </span>the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 2012 </span>elections<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">saw</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Latino and Asian </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">voters back Obama</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in record numbers, helping to seal his re-election.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">That </span>demonstrated to Republicanleaders<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> like McCain that </span>the GOP had to confront<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>immigration<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> issue or risk consigning itself to permanent minority status. </span>The view is widespreadenough<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> among Republicans </span>that it might help ease the legislation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">McCain produced</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. and others through the Senate, possibly even the conservative-dominated House, though that’s less certain.</span>
====CIR key to advanced R&D==== 
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fabien 1/23/13</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jordan, ABC news, Rubio: Immigration Reform Can Keep Tech Jobs in U.S., [[http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/Politics/marco-rubio-immigration-reform-tech-jobs-us/story?id=18295571]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keeping </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">high tech jobs</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> in the United States is a primary reason to pass immigration reform</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said on Wednesday.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rubio told a gathering of educators at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C., </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that high-tech companies estimate they cannot fill tens of thousands of jobs in the U.S. in part because of an immigration system that </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">does not provide enough visas </span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for foreigners who earn advanced degrees</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> here and want to remain to work.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As a result, those jobs are being filled overseas, Rubio said.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "In some instances, this is no joke, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we are graduating kids with these degrees and these skill sets</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. We are then forcing them to leave the country and the jobs are following them over there," he said. "This is crazy."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rubio later added: "</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">That obviously speaks to the need for immigration reform</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lawmakers</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in both political parties </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have long agreed on the need to expand the number of visa</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">s for</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">those in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">STEM</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) fields. But Congress has been unable to agree on a means to do so. STEM visas, however, are expected to be a part of a broader immigration reform effort in Congress this year.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rubio, one of three Cuban-Americans in the Senate, has begun to float his own immigration plan, which would increase the amount of visas available to highly skilled graduates and professionals. That wouldn't necessarily come at the expense of reducing the amount of visas in other areas, he recently told The Wall Street Journal.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "I don't think there's a lot of concern in this country that we'll somehow get overrun by Ph.D.s and entrepreneurs," Rubio said in an interview with the paper.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The GOP-controlled House recently passed a bill that would have granted 55,000 new STEM visas, but the effort was opposed by Democrats and did not advance in the Senate because it took visas away from the so-called "diversity lottery" that grants visas to people from countries underrepresented in the U.S. immigration system.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">High-tech visas are one of the least controversial elements of </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">c</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">omprehensive </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">i</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">mmigration </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">l</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">egislation, but </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it's an area that has been </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical in getting business groups on board</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> with a reform push.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The U.S. Chamber, where Rubio spoke, has voiced support for legalizing undocumented immigrants and expanding the number of visas for highly-skilled workers as part of immigration reform. Lobbyists from the tech industry have joined business groups in calling for expanding STEM visas.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rubio did not reference DREAMers, undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. at a young age who are seeking higher education, in his remarks. But his immigration outline includes a way to naturalize them "in a more expedited manner than the rest of the population," he told the Wall Street Journal.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rubio said that immigration reform is only one way for the U.S. to staff up its high tech firms</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The other problem, he said, is that </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there isn't enough skilled laborers among the American population</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. To address that, Rubio called on education reforms that include extending federal student aid to online courses and other non-traditional educational institutions.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "It speaks even more to the need to produce those workers" in the United States, Rubio said. </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"That skills gap is a real threat to our future."</span>//
====That’s is uniquely key in this instance – advanced R&D spills over to effective manufacturing==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Lind 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation (Michael, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf )</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Manufacturing</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, R&D </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the greatest contribution of manufacturing to the U.S. economy as a whole involves the disproportionate role of</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> the manufacturing sector in R&D</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. The expansion in the global market for high-value-added services has allowed the U.S. to play to its strength</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">s by expanding its trade surplus in services, many of them </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">linked to manufacturing</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, including R&D, engineering, software production and finance.</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Of these services, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">by far the most important is R&D</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The United States has long led the world in R&D. In 1981,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> U.S. gross domestic expenditure on R&D was more than three times as large as that of any other country in the world</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. And the U.S. still leads: in 2009, the most recent year for which there is available data, the United States spent more than 400 billion dollars. European countries spent just under 300 billion dollars combined, while China spent about 150 billion dollars.14 In the United States, private sector manufacturing is the largest source of R&D. The private sector itself accounts for 71 percent of total R&D in the United States, and although U.S. manufacturing accounts for only 11.7 percent of GDP in 2012, the manufacturing sector accounts for 70 percent of all R&D spending by the private sector in the U.S.15 And </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">R&D and innovation are inextricably connected</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">: a National Science Foundation survey found that 22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">percent of manufacturers had introduced product innovations and the same percentage introduced process innovations</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the period 2006-2008, while only 8 percent of nonmanufacturers reported innovations of either kind.16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Even as the manufacturing industry in the United States underwent major changes</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> and suffered severe job losses during the last decade, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">R&D spending continued to follow a general upward growth path. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A disproportionate share of workers involved in R&D are employed directly or indirectly by manufacturing companies; for example, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the US manufacturing sector employs more than a third of U.S. engineers.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">17 This means that </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">manufacturing provides much of the demand for the U.S. innovation ecosystem, supporting</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> large numbers of scientists and engineers</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> who might not find employment if R&D were offshored along with production. Why America Needs the Industrial Commons </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Manufacturing creates an industrial commons,which spurs growth in multiple sectors of the economy through linked industries.</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> An “industrial commons” is a base of shared physical facilities and intangible knowledge shared by a number of firms. </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The term “commons” comes from communallyshared pastures or fields in premodern Britain</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. The industrial commons in particular in the manufacturing sector includes not only large companies but also small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which employ 41 percent of the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">American manufacturing workforce and account for 86 percent of all manufacturing establishments</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the U.S. </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Suppliers of materials, component parts, tools, and more</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">are all interconnected</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; most of the time, Harvard Business School professors Gary Pisano and Willy Shih point out, these linkages are geographic because of the ease of interaction and knowledge transfer between firms.18 Examples of </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">industrial commons surrounding manufacturing are evident in the United States</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, including the I-85 corridor from Alabama to Virginia and upstate New York.19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Modern economic scholarship emphasizes the importance of geographic agglomeration effects and co-location synergies</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. 20 Manufacturers and researchers alike have long noted the symbiotic relationship that occurs when </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">manufacturing and R&D are located near each other: the manufacturer benefits from the innovation, and the researchers are better positioned to understand where innovation can be found and to test new ideas</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. While some forms of knowledge can be easily recorded and transferred, much “know-how” in industry is tacit knowledge. This valuable tacit knowledge base can be damaged or destroyed by the erosion of geographic linkages, which in turn shrinks the pool of scientists and engineers in the national innovation ecosystem</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. If an advanced manufacturing core is not retained, then the economy stands to lose not only the manufacturing industry itself but also the geographic synergies of the industrial commons, including R&D</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Some have warned that this is already the case: a growing share of R&D by U.S. multinational corporations is taking place outside of the United States.21 In particular, a </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">number of large U.S. manufacturers have opened up or expanded R&D facilities in China over the last few years</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.22 Next Generation Manufacturing </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A dynamic manufacturing sector in the U.S. is as important as ever</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. But thanks to advanced manufacturing technology and technology-enabled integration of manufacturing and services, the very nature of manufacturing is changing, often in radical ways. What will </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the next generation of manufacturing</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> look like? In 1942, the economist Joseph Schumpeter declared that “the process of creative destruction is the essential fact about capitalism.” By creative destruction, Schumpeter did not mean the rise and fall of firms competing in a technologically-static marketplace. He referred to a “</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">process of industrial mutation</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">— if I may use that biological term—that incessantly </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating the new one.</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">” He noted that “these revolutions are not strictly incessant; they occurred in discrete rushes that are separated from each other by spaces of comparative quiet. The process as a whole works incessantly, however, in the sense that there is always either revolution or absorption of the results of revolution.”23 As Schumpeter and others have observed, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">technological innovation tends to be clustered in bursts or waves, each dominated by one or a few transformative technologies that are sometimes called “general purpose technologies</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.” Among the most world-transforming general purpose </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">technologies of recent centuries have been the steam engine, electricity, the internal combustion engine, and information technolog</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">y.24 As epochal as these earlier technology-driven innovations in manufacturing processes and business models proved to be, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">they are rapidly being superseded by new technologydriven</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> changes as part of the never-ending process of Schumpeterian industrial mutation. </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The latest wave of innovation in industrial technology has been termed “</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">advanced manufacturing</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.”</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The National Science and Technology Council of the Executive Office of the President defines advanced manufacturing as “a family of activities that (a) </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">depend on the use and coordination of information, automation, computation, software, sensing, and networking, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">and/</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">or</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (b) </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">make use of cutting edge materials and emerging capabilities enabled by the physical and biological sciences, for example, nanotechnology</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, chemistry, and biology. It involves both new ways to manufacture existing products and the manufacture of new products emerging from new advanced technologies.”25 Already computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) programs, combined with computer numerical control (CNC), allow precision manufacturing from complex designs, eliminating many wasteful trials and steps in finishing. CNC is now ubiquitous in the manufacturing sector and much of the employment growth occurring in the sector requires CNC skills or training. Information technology has allowed for enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other forms of enterprise software to connect parts of the production process (both between and within a firm), track systems, and limit waste when dealing with limited resources. Other areas in which advanced manufacturing will play a role in creating new products and sectors and changing current ones </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">are: Supercomputing. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">America’s global leadership in technology depends in part on whether the U.S. can compete with Europe and Asia in the race to develop “exascale computing,” a massive augmentation of computer calculating power that has the potential to revolutionize predictive sci ences from meteorology to economics. According to the Advanced Scientific Computing Advisory Committee (ASCAC), “If the U.S. chooses to be a follower rather than a leader in exascale computing, we must be willing to cede leadership” in industries including aerospace, automobiles, energy, health care, novel material development, and information technology.26 </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Robotics</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The long-delayed promise of robotics is coming closer to fulfillment. Google and other firms and research consortiums are testing robotic cars, and Nevada recently amended its laws to permit autonomous automobiles.27 Amazon is experimenting with the use of robots in its warehouses.28 Nanotechnology may permit manufacturing at extremely small scales including the molecular and atomic levels.29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Nanotechnology is also a key research component in the semiconductor indusmanutry,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> as government funding is sponsoring projects to create a “new switch” capable of supplanting current semiconductor technology.30 Photonics or optoelectronics, based on the conversion of information carried by electrons to photons and back, has potential applications in sectors as diverse as telecommunications, data storage, lighting and consumer electronics. Biomanufacturing is the use of biological processes or living organisms to create inorganic structures, as well as food, drugs and fuel. Researchers at MIT have genetically modified a virus that generates cobalt oxide nanowires for silicon chips.31 Innovative materials include artificial “metamaterials” with novel properties. Carbon nanotubes, for example, have a strength-to-weight ratio that no other material can match.32 </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Advanced manufacturing using these and other cuttingedge technologies is not only creating new products and new methods of production but is also transforming familiar products like automobiles.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The rapid growth in electronic and software content in automobiles, in forms like GPS-based guidance systems, information and entertainment technology, anti-lock brakes and engine control systems, will continue. According to Ford, around 30 percent of the value of one of its automobiles is comprised by intellectual property, electronics and software. In the German automobile market, electronic content as a share of production costs is expected to rise from 20-30 percent in 2007 to 50 percent by 2020.33</span>
====Advanced manufacturing technology makes war obsolete – it’s the ultimate deterrent==== 
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Paone 09</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force, Chuck, 8-10-09, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The convergence of "</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">exponentially advancing technologies" will form a "super-intelligence</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">" so formidable that it could avert war, according to one of the world's leading futurists. Dr. James Canton, CEO and chairman of the Institute for Global Futures, a San Francisco-based think tank, is author of the book "</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The Extreme Future" and an adviser to leading companies, the military and other government agencies.</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> He is consistently listed among the world's leading speakers and has presented to diverse audiences around the globe. He will address the Air Force Command and Control Intelligence, Survelliance and Reconnaissance Symposium, which will be held Sept. 28 through 30 at the MGM Grand Hotel at Foxwoods in Ledyard, Conn., joining Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norton Schwartz and a bevy of other government and industry speakers. He offered a sneak preview of his symposium presentation and answered various questions about the future of technology and warfare in early August. "</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The superiority of convergent technologies will prevent war,"</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Doctor Canton said, claiming </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">their power would present an overwhelming deterrent to potential adversaries</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. While saying that the U.S. will build these super systems faster and better than other nations, he acknowledged that a new arms race is already under way. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It will be a new MAD for the 21st century</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">," he said, referring to the Cold War-era acronym for Mutually Assured Destruction, the idea that a nuclear first strike would trigger an equally deadly response. It's commonly held that this knowledge has essentially prevented </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">any rational state from launching a nuclear attack</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Likewise, Doctor Canton said he believes rational nation states, considering this imminent technology explosion, will see the futility of nation-on-nation warfare in the near future. Plus </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">there's the "socio-economic linking of the global market system."</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> "The fundamental macroeconomics on the planet favor peace, security, capitalism and prosperity," he said. Doctor Canton projects that nations, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">including those not currently allied, will work together in using these smart technologies to prevent non-state actors from engaging in disruptive and deadly acts</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. As a futurist, Doctor Canton and his team study and predict many things, but their main area of expertise -- and the one in which he's personally most interested -- </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">is advanced and emerging technology.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> "I see that as </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the key catalyst of strategic change on the planet, and it will be for the next 100 years,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">" he said. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">He focuses on six specific technology areas: "nano, bio, IT, neuro, quantum and robotics;"</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> those he expects to converge in so powerful a way. Within the information technology arena, Doctor Canton said </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">systems must create "meaningful data," which can be validated and acted upon.</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> "Knowledge engineering for the analyst and the warfighter is a critical competency that we need to get our arms around," he said. "</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Having an avalanche of data is not going to be helpful." </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Having the right data is. "There's no way for the human operator to look at an infinite number of data streams and extract meaning," he said. "The question then is: </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">How do we augment the human user with advanced artificial intelligence</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">better software presentation and better visual frameworks</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, to create a system that is situationally aware and can provide decision options for the human operator, faster than the human being can?</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">" He said he believes the answers can often be found already in what he calls 'edge cultures.' "I would look outside of the military. What are they doing in video games? What are they doing in healthcare? What about the financial industry?" Doctor Canton said he believes that more </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">sophisticated artificial intelligence applications will transform business,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> warfare and life in general. Many of these are already embedded in systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.</span>

2NR: Russia DA, CP to Develop not Deploy


=Round 2= 

Aff Vs Loyola FM

Port Dredging- Navy + Trade

(See Normal Wiki)

=Round 3= 

Aff vs Brophy MS

Port Dredging - Navy + Trade

(See Normal Wiki)

=Round 4= 

Neg vs GBN DM (Bonds)

2NR- TI PIC
(See Normal Wiki)

=Round 5= 

NEW AFF!!! OMGZ

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">transportation shapes the ebbs and flows of social currents—it something we all encounter and experience, it involves an aspect of disjointedness and dislocation from normality</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">unfortunately, our discussions of transportation have followed the same absurd scripts as every other topic—broad, depersonalized, instrumental approaches to a policy area that has tangible on our every day lives</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">this dichotomy between personal and instrumental, micro and macro, impressionistic vs highly technical thinking is one we think is worth exploring in the context of the topic</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">before we expand to a broader discussion of language and knowledge,we begin with a discussion of the topic—specifically, a narrative decription of transport—not the economic or political aspect, simply the individual perspective of being transported</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Michel</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> de </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certeau in 84</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – philosopher, founding member of “ École Freudienne de Paris” alongside Jacques Lacan ( “The Practice of Everyday Life” Translated by Steven Rendall UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TRAVELLING INCARCERATION. Immobile inside the train, seeing immobile things slip by. What </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">that could believe itself intact because it was surrounded by glass and iron</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">what does it mean to be transported? to me it means a perceptive dislocation from previous spaces. in this sense, personal accounts and narratives literally transport the audience through immersion—we are transportation investment</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Green et al 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Melanie C. Green (PhD, Ohio State University) is an assistant professor at the University of Pennsylvania. 2 Timothy C. Brock (PhD, Yale University) is a professor is a graduate student at Ohio State University 3 Geoff Kaufman (PhD, Yale University) is a professor is a graduate student at Ohio State University (“Understanding Media Enjoyment: The Role of Transportation Into Narrative Worlds” Communication Theory Volume 14, Issue 4, Article first published online: 10 JAN 2006 ajones)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Transportation Into Narrative Worlds </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation into a narrative world has been conceptualized as a </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">information-seeking needs) and is beyond the scope of this article. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">just as other discussions of the topic have ignored its personal aspect out of habit and discomfort, modern knowledge continues its genesis </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Not just stories of olmypians and titans—“mythos” in the broder, ancient sense. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">most have heard of “logos” “ethos” and “pathos”, but few encounter “mythos”—this is no accident. Mythos was the ambiguous, emotional, undefinable force that pervaded society. Socratic and Platonic tradition could not pin it down so they chose to dismiss it. Forgotten, it has served as the defining failure of modern knowledge. elements of mythos pervade all cultures but remain unconsidered in decisionmaking, tainting the endless search for Truth and disastrously affecting policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">by embracing mythos, we decenter the modern obsession with exclusive rationality and open space for as more holistic conception of knowlege</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anais </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spitzer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Visiting Instructor of Mythology at Prescott College. She has also held positions at Hollins University, the University of New Mexico, and the College of Santa Fe Pub. ( “Derrida, Myth, and the Impossibility of Philosophy” Continuum International Publishing Group 04 Aug 2011 ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Philosophy begins</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, or so it initially appears, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">with the dismissal of myth</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">reveals that mythos is, in some way, basic to philosophic discourse</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">knowledge geared towards specific endpoints is impossible—accepting mythos brings us to terms with the unknowable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anais </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spitzer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Visiting Instructor of Mythology at Prescott College. She has also held positions at Hollins University, the University of New Mexico, and the College of Santa Fe Pub. ( “Derrida, Myth, and the Impossibility of Philosophy” Continuum International Publishing Group 04 Aug 2011 ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Before continuing further, a few more important qualifications must be made in considering the </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">structuralize), but rather to destabilize that which can never be properly grounded.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">as a community of researches and intellectuals we should reject the excessive simplification and naieve predictions of traditional policymaking</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sil and Katzenstein, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Sil is an Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennysylvania while Katzenstein is a Professor of International Studies at Cornell (Rudra and Peter, “Analytic Eclecticism in the Study of World Politics: Reconfiguring Problems and Mechanisms across Research Traditions”, part of UPenn articles collection, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.polisci.upenn.edu/faculty/RSEclectic2010.pdf)/BZ|http://www.polisci.upenn.edu/faculty/RSEclectic2010.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Analytic eclecticism does not constitute an alternative model of research. It is an intellectual </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">distinctive value added in relating academic debates to concrete matters of policy and practice</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">our transgressive affirmation does not explode limits nor does it simply reinscribe logos—it opens logos to the terrifying scraps of philosophy which it seeks to avoid. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anais </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spitzer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Visiting Instructor of Mythology at Prescott College. She has also held positions at Hollins University, the University of New Mexico, and the College of Santa Fe Pub. ( “Derrida, Myth, and the Impossibility of Philosophy” Continuum International Publishing Group 04 Aug 2011 ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Is it possible to transgress the limitations of logos in a way that does </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">as logos,16 even as they are inextricable aspects of it.17</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">this type of affirmation is incredibly valuable-- the sense of wonder found in embracing unknowable potentiality is crucial to break down opressive hierarchies </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Susan </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McManus 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Lecturer in Political Theory at Queens College (“Theorizing Utopian Agency: Two Steps Toward Utopian Techniques of the Self” Theory & Event. Baltimore: 2007. Vol. 10, Iss. 3;1 proquest ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 51. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jane Bennett, invoking wonder or enchantment, as a "mood </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">sense of a world that itself, sometimes, transgresses its "rules</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">we don’t efface reality or truth—we reformulate knowledge to better understand mythos and chaos</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">MacDonald, 1999</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Department of Political Studies, Queens University, 1999, Eleanor Science & Society 63.2 Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Much</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of the early </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">critical reception of Derrida</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">'s work </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">focused on the appearance of a </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which frustrates their usefulness in particular historical contexts or regarding particular discursive instance</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">contention two is metaphor</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">heres the point of synthesis—we think that our invididualized example of trasportation forms a useful locus for a discussion of knowledge, language, and mythos. excluding personal experience to focus on broad efficiency is an example of logos excluding mythos. paradoxically, this exclusion has resulted in rail policies inadvertently shaped by mythos alone. this unveils conduits by which individual impressions and feelings fundementally shape policymaking, and serves as a broader metaphor for the structure of society. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">we should affirm the metaphor of transportation to expose the truly mythic nature of decisionmaking. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan E. D. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Richmond 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- University of Sydney, former Fulbright Scholar at the MIT Center for Transportation Studies, from which he received masters and doctoral degrees (“The Mythical Conception of Rail Transit in Los Angeles” 11 November, 1996 Journal of Architectural and Planning Research http://the-tech.mit.edu/~richmond/professional/myth.pdf ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">CONCLUSION </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Los Angeles – Long Beach Blue Line light rail service</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is not the </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, however, tackle this problem if we are to make progress in planning</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the word metaphor comes from the ancient Greek “metapherein” – ‘to transport across’. metaphors carry meaning between two symbolic loci, just as a mass transit network carrys people. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">metaphor is both literal travel and coproductive with the meaning of the journey</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michel de </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certeau 84</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – philosopher, founding member of “ École Freudienne de Paris” alongside Jacques Lacan ( “The Practice of Everyday Life” Translated by Steven Rendall UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS Ajones)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> IN MODERN ATHENS, the vehicles of mass transportation are called //metaphorai//. To </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">enunciative focalizations</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">" (that is, the indication of the body within discourse</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">it doesn’t matter if this isnt the normative understanding of transportation—that’s the point.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">by rejecting conventional understandings of language, we break down a system of interpretive authority which causes international conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Klaus </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Krippendorff 90</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of Communication at the Annenberg School for Communication, University of Pennsylvania (“Models and Metaphors of Communication” 1990 Departmental Papers (ASC) http://repository.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1283&context=asc_papers ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Let me start with </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">communication is sharing</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. I am suggesting that this commonly cherished </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">also not be answered while believing that it is the symbols that flow</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">the point of the aff is to unsettle faith in ultimate meaning through wordplay, metaphors, extreme rhetoric, parralled and jumbled texts accreted around a centralized textual thesis—this interweaving disturbance is the most just and ethical response to the inevitability of violence and subjectivity of meaning. this renders all other impact systems hollow and unworkable. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">MacDonald, 1999</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Department of Political Studies, Queens University, 1999, Eleanor Science & Society 63.2 Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In an unusually direct moment in his article, "Force of Law: The </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of a living present</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. (Derrida, 1994, 64-5.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">we are not a total rejection of rational thought and even our acts of logos provide a metaphorical ‘vehicle’ for mythos—we are indescribably topical</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anais </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spitzer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Visiting Instructor of Mythology at Prescott College. She has also held positions at Hollins University, the University of New Mexico, and the College of Santa Fe Pub. ( “Derrida, Myth, and the Impossibility of Philosophy” Continuum International Publishing Group 04 Aug 2011 ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chapter 5 takes up the resulting challenge of understanding the relationship of mythos and logos </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">thought, and logos provides mythos a vehicle by which to find expression.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">this metaphor in the context of transportation within debate is crucial to disturbing the mythos-logos hierarchy without simply reinscribing it</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cooper 89</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Behaviour in Organizations, University of Lancaster, U.K. (“Modernism, Post Modernism and Organizational Analysis 3: The Contribution of Jacques Derrida” doi: 10.1177/017084068901000402 Organization Studies October 1989 vol. 10 no. 4 479-502 http://oss.sagepub.com/content/10/4/479.short Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deconstruction</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Derrida starts from the position that human experience is pervaded by an existential 'ambivalence' which </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">nature of social life and it is precisely this possibility that Derrida's work offers</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">descriptions are creative by nature—failure to embrace affective narration </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">spirals into nihilsm</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michel de </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certeau 84</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – philosopher, founding member of “ École Freudienne de Paris” alongside Jacques Lacan ( “The Practice of Everyday Life” Translated by Steven Rendall UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS Ajones)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Marking out boundaries </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As operations on places, stories also play the everyday role </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) whose essential narrative figures seem to be the frontier and the bridge. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">argueing that we ‘break down truth or science’ is a non sequiter since it was never there to begin with. uniform, stable conceptions of reality are imposisble—everything is contextual</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chapman, 04 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Jake, renowned systems thinker and former professor of energy systems at the Open University (“Preface to the second edition,” //System failure Why governments must learn to think differently//, Second edition, First Published 2002, second edition 2004, Demos, http://www.demos.co.uk/files/systemfailure2.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In System Failure I argue that the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">dominant</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> approach to </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">policymaking was based on mechanistic </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">link policy and interventions unambiguously because too many other variables are also changing.</span>




=Round 6= 

Neg vs Riverhill CL

2NR: Visibility

(See Normal Wiki)

=Round 7= 

Aff vs GBN KS

Port Dredging - Navy + Trade

(See Normal Wiki)
=Octas= 

Aff vs Blake MS

Port Dredging - Navy + Trade
See Normal Wiki)
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]