[[toc]]
=Information= 
Hi! We'll post everything after each round, but if you have any questions or anything -
Aff: Chris Moxley: chrismoxley05@gmail.com
Neg: Tucker Boyce - tuckerboyce@gmail.com

=Round 1= 
==1AC Icebreakers Round 1== 
===Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should develop and deploy single purpose polar class icebreakers.**

===Russia=== 
Advantage 1 is Russia
**Arctic conflict risk high now---prefer recent evidence**
Clark 2/6 Pilita, Financial Times, "Environment: Frozen frontiers", 2013, www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/a51a35e2-704c-11e2-ab31-00144feab49a.html#axzz2KSkdFR00
Yet this is only the latest sign of a AND year, not least in the shipping trade.

**The plan’s reverses this trend – a clear signal is key to avert Arctic war.**
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” [[https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979]]
One reason a military presence will be necessary is tAND a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

**Russia won’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves**
Dawkins 11 (Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)//moxley
Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorialAND and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.

**Those go nuclear**
Wallace, 10 (Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zAND icance of the Arctic because of climate change.”

**Best scholarship proves our impact**
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)
It is no overstatement to say that the end of theAND to translate into changes to state security strategies.

**Don’t trust defense – Russians are intentionally hiding their belligerence.**

Huebert 10 – PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary. Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”[[http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf]]]
It should be clear that the Russians have beeAND point to an increasingly ¶ assertive Russia? This is not known.

===1AC New Advantage=== 
1AC New Advantage
**Advantage 2 is Energy**
**Drilling is insufficient – its key to leadership and waterways are needed.**
Cohen and Altman 11 Ariel Cohen, Ph.D. is a Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy at the Heritage Foundation, Anton Altman is a research volunteer at The Heritage Foundation, August 16, 2011, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten”, http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/
Moscow has an unquestionable head start on AND to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.

**US Arctic leadership solves multiple threats – offshore natural gas is key.**
Conley 12 (Heather – Senior Fellow at CSIS and Director, Europe Program, “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic”, January, http://csis.org/files/publication/120117_Conley_ArcticSecurity_Web.pdf)
The Arctic will experience extraordinary economicAND resources from their Arctic territories.

**Arctic terrorism leads to CBW use**
Mychajlyszyn 8 (Natalie, International Affairs, Trade and Finance Division, “The Arctic: Canadian Security and Defence”, 24 October 2008, http://www.parl.gc.ca/Content/LOP/ResearchPublications/prb0813-e.htm#illegalaccess)
Increased illegal access and illegal activities, including AND such as diamonds and copper.

**That means extinction**
Sandberg et al 8—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecurity at the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 September 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)
The risks from anthropogenic hazards appear AND biotechnologies continue to improve at a rate rivaling Moore's Law.

**US needs to take the lead – otherwise Russia fills in and destroys the environment**
Sullivan 12 – Commissioner of Alaska's Department of Natural Resources & Fmr. St. Atty. General It's time to develop our Arctic resources, Dan Sullivan, Special to CNN, Fri July 20, 2012 http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/20/opinion/sullivan-arctic-drilling/index.html
(CNN) -- The United States is on the verge of AND<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> separate from environmental and other NGO’s.</span>

**Independently, oil drilling revitalizes the shipbuilding and chemical industries**
Mason 11 Joseph, Senior Fellow, The Wharton School, Louisiana State University Endowed Chair of Banking and nationally-renowned economist, “House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources Hearing; Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs Legislative Hearing on H.R. 306, H.R. 588, S. 266 and H.R. 285”, 4/6, Lexis
Apart from national energy concerns,AND approximately $1.64 trillion ($54.7 billion per year) in new U.S. federal tax income.

**Strong chemical industry prevents extinction**
Baum 99 – Baum, Founder of Chemical and Engineering News Washington, 12-6-99 (Rudy, “MILLENNIUM SPECIAL REPORT,” C&EN Washington, Volume 77, Number 49, http://pubs.acs.org/cen/hotarticles/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html)
Computers and the Internet are clearly one of AND and provide for humanity's basic and not-so-basic needs.
===Solvency=== 
**The plan is key – icebreaking capabilities are a prerequisite to polar presence**
National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//
//The committee finds that both operAND////<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> costs associated with directed mission tasking.</span>//

//**Here’s a single distinction**//
//POAC 95 (13th International Conference on Port and Ocean Engineering under Arctic Condition, August15th - 18,1995 Murmansk, Russia, http://www.poac.com/Papers/POAC95_V4_all.pdf)//moxley
Initially the word icebreaker was AND <span style="line-height: 1.5;">constructed to do icebreaking by herself in defined ice conditions.</span>

**The usfg is key**
National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
The committee was asked to consider alternative ship AND operated by the U.S. Coast Guard.”
Russian threat increasing – most recent ev
Lyons 12 - commander in chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet and senior U.S. military representative to the United Nations (James, Russia’s shot across the bow: Sneaky submarine bad sign for U.S. readiness, Lexis)
A Russian Akula-class cruise-missile attack submariAND to be exploited. There is no question that we are being challenged.

=Round 2= 
==Neg Strategy== 
Aff vs. Icebreakers (New Trier WW AJJJJJ)
1NC: T – Military/Vehicles, Arctic Forum CP, CIR DA (Cyberwar), Security K, Case with Russia DA
2NC: DA, Case with Russia DA
1NR: Other Advantage
2NR: DA, Case

=Round 3= 
==Aff== 
Same Aff as Round 1

=Round 4= 
==Neg Strategy== 
Aff v. Equity K Aff (Bellarmine)
1NC: T – Maintenance, EIS CP, States CP, CIR DA (Food Security), Case
2NC: EIS CP, CIR DA
1NR: Case
2NR: EIS CP, Case

=Round 5= 
==Neg Strategy== 
Neg v. Joint Power Platforms (Sage Ridge CL)
1NC: T – Military, Cost Controls CP, Security K, CIR DA (Cyberterror), Case
2NC: K
1NR: T
2NR: T

=Round 6= 
==New Aff== 
===Framing Contention=== 

First is No War –
There will be no escalation or miscalc
Drezner 11—professor of international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. (12/22/11, Daniel, These crazy IR Kids today, with their wacky threat assessments,drezner.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/12/22/these_crazy_ir_kids_today_with_their_wacky_threat_assessments)
To be fair to Miller, I do think he AND portrays the Iran threat in such menacing terms.

And, multiple factors check war
Robb 12—Lieutenant, US Navy (Doug, Why the Age of Great Power War is Over, [[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-05/now-hear-why-age-great-power-war-over|www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-05/now-hear-why-age-great-power-war-over]])
Whereas in years past, when nations allied AND parts costly, counterproductive, archaic, and improbable.

And, Their impact is hype [blue]
Cohen and Zenko 12—senior fellow at the New America Foundation where he helms the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative and an adjunct lecturer at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs—AND—worked for five years at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, and at the Brookings Institution, Congressional Research Service, and State Department's Office of Policy Planning. (Michael and Micah, Clear and Present Safety, www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137279/micah-zenko-and-michael-a-cohen/clear-and-present-safety?page=show)
Last August, the Republican presidential AND shrift in national security discourse and policymaking.

Second – systemic impacts come first
First, Prefer the systemic impacts of the 1ac over improbable disad claims
Menand 2005 (Louis, Quoting,“Everybody’s an Expert,” The New Yorker, December 2005, http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?currentPage=1)
It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip AND run, but the long run irons them out.

And, Low probability impacts gridlock policy making, you should focus on high probability first
Rescher 83, Nicholas Rescher is an American philosopher, University Professor of Philosophy and Chairman of the Center for Philosophy of Science at University of Pittsburgh. 1983. [“Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management”, p35-36. 1983.]
A probability is a number between zero AND absolute security is absolute stultification.

And, Even if uncertainty is inevitable the most rational option is not whether the risk of magnitude should be taken, but the concluded probability of that impact.
Hansson ‘5 (Sven Ove; Professor- Department of Philosophy and the History of Technology at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden; “The Epistemology of Technological Risk” Techné: Research in Philosophy and Technology, Volume 9, Winter 2005) http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/ejournals/SPT/v9n2/hansson.html MG
The distinction between risk and uncertainty relates AND satisfactorily with the concerns of the public.

And, Prefer our disjunctive scenarios to their short-term conjunctive scenarios.
Yudkowsky 6 – Research Fellow & Director @ Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence (Eliezer, 8/31/. Palo Alto, CA. “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf)
The conjunction fallacy similarly applies to AND awkward and unpoetic-sounding prophecy.

Their threat discourse mass structural violence---rational impact calc goes aff
Jackson 12—Director of the National Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, the University of Otago. Former. Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth University (8/5/12, Richard, The Great Con of National Security, http://richardjacksonterrorismblog.wordpress.com/2012/08/05/the-great-con-of-national-security/)
It may have once been the case AND challenge the politicians on this fact.

Action is the only option – suicide prevention provides a long term societal benefit
Doessel and Williams 2010 [Darrel P. Dossel, Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention, Griffith University, Australia, and Ruth F.G. Williams, Regional School of Business, La Trobe University, and Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention, Griffith University, Australia. Suicidology Online 2010:1:66-75. “Essay: The Economic Argument for a Policy of Suicide Prevention” RS]
The argument presented here is that the AND arguments at the core of modern welfare economics.

===Fatal Seduction Contention=== 
We now proceed with the story of the Golden Gate Bridge, and Kevin Hines, who made his way to the bridge in September of 2000.
Tweedie 12 [By Neil Tweedie; “Golden Gate Bridge is the world's most popular site for suicide: 'Just why do they make it so easy?’”; 5/26/2012; [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/features/9289970/Golden-Gate-Bridge-is-the-worlds-most-popular-site-for-suicide-Just-why-do-they-make-it-so-easy.html]]; Boyce-toc13]
Kevin Hines had made a decision: if just one AND and hurled himself over the barrier.

Luckily, Kevin Hines was one of the few that lived. He was rescued by the Coast Guard after hitting the water feet first. He lived to tell the tale, but so many others have not.

Important transportation structures like the Golden Gate Bridge are completely unprotected now, functioning as suicide magnets. We have a moral imperative to create barriers to prevent endless tragedy.
Bateson 12 [John Bateson is the author of "The Final Leap: Suicide on the Golden Gate Bridge," and the former executive director of a San Francisco Bay Area crisis center. In 2008, he helped draft the California Strategic Plan on Suicide Prevention, Op-Ed in the Los Angeles Times; “The Golden Gate Bridge's fatal flaw”; 5/25/2012; [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/may/25/opinion/la-oe-adv-bateson-golden-gate-20120525]]; Boyce-toc13]
As San Francisco hosts a citywide birthday AND that truly will be worth celebrating.

Bridge barriers are crucial to resolve suicides.
AFSP 13 [American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; “Bridge Barriers as a Suicide Deterrent”; 2013 Policy Brief; [[http://www.afsp.org/files/Misc_/Public_Policy/Issue_Briefs/Bridge_Barriers_2013.pdf]]; Boyce-toc13]
Suicide Prevention – The Benefits of Bridge AND can contribute to copycat suicides).

Suicide causes the worse suffering imaginable – it is not only a structural impact, but it causes suffering and for family members, and destroys the value of individuals who survive – we have an ethical obligation to prevent it in every instance
Zhang et al. 10 (Jie Zhang, State University of New York College at Buffalo, Hui Qi Tong, Pacific Graduate School of Psychology, Li Zhou, Dalian Medical University, China. THE EFFECT OF BEREAVEMENT DUE TO SUICIDE ON SURVIVORS’ DEPRESSION: A STUDY OF CHINESE SAMPLES, September, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2931588/)//moxley//
//Suicide as a major mental health problem AND manifestations of grief, but the principal emotion of grief (Aneshensel, Pearlin, Mullan, Zarit, & Whitlatch, 1995; Jacobs, Nelson, & Zisook, 1987).//

//The best studies prove the effectiveness of our aff//
//Grohol et al. 8 (Dr. John Grohol is the CEO and founder of Psych Central. He is an author, researcher and expert in mental health online, and has been writing about online behavior, mental health and psychology issues -- as well as the intersection of technology and human behavior -- since 1992. Dr. Grohol sits on the editorial board of the journal Cyberpsychology, Behavior and Social Networking and is a founding board member and treasurer of the Society for Participatory Medicine, “Suicide Barriers are Effective”, 2008, http://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2008/07/10/suicide-barriers-are-effective/)//moxley
One of those common means is jumping AND the choice to live another day until the crisis has past.

===Plan Text=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its suicide barrier transportation infrastructure investment on bridges in the United States.

=Round 7= 
==Neg Strategy== 
1NC: T, Economic Complexity K, TRIPs CP, CIR DA (Cyberterror), Case
2NC: K, Case
1NR: Politics, Case
2NR: DA, Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]