[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**Disabilities Affirmative 1AC Cites:**== 
===Contention 1 - Exclusion:=== 
**Investment Decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed disabled populations from society by denying them of their mobility.**
AAPD 12
Transportation and Mobility play key roles...requirements has meant very uneven progress.

**And current transportation infrastructure reinforces the medical model of disability and results in forced social exclusion.**
Audirac 08
Although influential transportation planners believe that...Grieco 2003; Hine and Mitchell 2001; TCRP 1999).

**And this medical model is the root cause of conflict.**
Elden 02
The reverse side is the power to allow death...many men to be killed. (VS, 180; WK, 136)

**And ableism within status quo transportation infrastructure perpetuates broader exclusion of all groups - Justifies eugenics and genocide.**
Bagenstos 2000
Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a...effectively marked that group as a "dependent caste." 1 9 0

**And this type of everyday violence must be prioritized in your calculations. It creates the conditions that psychologically cause the worst** **atrocities.**
Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04
This large and at first sight "messy" Part VII...and reversed feelings of victimization).
=== === 
===Plan Text:=== 
**Thus we advocate: The USfg should implement universal design in its transportation infrastructure.**
=== === 
===Contention 2 - Solvency:=== 
**Vote aff to endorse inclusion and reject the exclusionary status quo - bringing ableism into policy debates is an ethical imperative - what we say here is the litmus test for subjugation across the globe.**
Berube 03
It is striking, nonetheless, that so few...which is to say, for the good of all of us.

**Policy doesn't stop at the doors of congress.**
Roberts 07
On the other hand, when activism is located...fairness for students with disabilities

**Universal design deconstructs the medical model through infrastructure investment.**
Sullivan 11
Many designers are now beginning to...who have a lot to offer to society

**Universal design solves stigma through a recognition of diverse human desires and needs.**
Barnes 2011
The growing emphasis on an inclusive approach...design disciplines' (Welsh, 1995: 262).

**And federal action is key to raising national consciousness.**
Drimmer 93
Society resonates with the message that people...view people with disabilities as inherently inferior.

**National action is key to public perception and change.**
Percy 02
A final explanation of state acquiescence to national...within the overall federal system of the US.

**And action sends and international signal to end the stigmatization of the disabled.**
Stanton 1996
3. A Proposal for the INA to Adopt the Americans...not a class to be shunned and avoided.
=== === 
===Contention 3 - No War:=== 
**Attempting to start from a position of preventing large-scale violence prevents the neg from solving and makes war and violence inevitable.**
Cuomo 1996
Ethical approaches that do not attend to the ways...the inevitability of war and militarism.

**The appeal to utilitarianism ensures the continued abuse of the disabled globally.**
Light 07
There is, however, a horror which has remained almost invisible...social stresses than those that already exist.

**As the privileged, we have a moral duty to prevent injustices from befalling the marginalized - it is impossible for us to disengage from a system riddled with inequalities, and we must try to fix it as much as possible.**
Tan 97
There is another reason that Kantian justice in practice calls...some positive duty is in order.

**And the prior question is whether the plan on its-face affirms a worthy ethical principle. To void this obligation in the name of future consequences fails to establish any coherent moral framework and makes decisions impossible.**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Finnis 80</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">To choose an act which in itself simply (or primarily) damages...always as and end and never as a means only.12</span>
=Negative= 
==Disads:== 
===Dedev:=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fuel and food shortages as well as structural instabilities in our economic structure make further growth unsustainable. Collapse now will ensure a mindset shift and allow a sustainable localized economy to develop. Further growth causes catastrophic failure and localization solves value to life.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Korowicz, 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yet our feet of clay are that our economy… lived, and a rich texture of experience found.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A collapse now prevents total extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barry 08</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an enormous conundrum -- sufficient climate… economic sabotage to hasten the day. It is more fragile than it looks.</span>
====== ====== 
==Counterplans:== 
===Terrocrats PIC:=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We affirm: Resolved: The United States Terrocrats should substantially (the plan)___.__</span>**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The power of the so called “government” is derived from violence – all of the worst atrocities throughout history have been committed by “governments,” the aff’s acceptance of the term legitimizes violence</span>**__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mann 02</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ultimately, political power comes from the barrel of the gun… definition of "government!" – John Hosper.</span>__

__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Usage of the word “terrocrats” recognizes the lies and violence of “government,” creating the potential to collapse their false hierarchy of power</span>**__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mann 02</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The power of territorial criminals is based on </span>__lies__ and victims believing… were to use these terms over the airwaves and in print!

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Serial Killing, War, and Mass Murder</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Mann 02</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"By far the most numerous and most flagrant violations of personal liberty… representatives of governments, acting in their official capacity."</span>
====== ====== 
==Kritiks:== 
===Disaster Pornography:=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Apocalyptic framing of global warming is a destructive discourse that undermines faith in science and the political will to act.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Barrett and Gilles 12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This over-reliance on the apocalyptic narrative causes… should not seek to ignore it, or simply brace for it, but to avert it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**The alternative is to reject the affirmatives apocalyptic representations of climate change** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Representations about warming come first—reframing the tragic apocalypse is key to human agency and solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Foust and Murphy 9</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, we believe that the various perspectives… apocalyptic tragedy to a more comic telos for humanity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is a political act because the rhetorical strategies we use to pass laws dictate their content and effectiveness. It’s impossible to evaluate the desirability of a policy without making the representations used to justify them a prior question.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Doremus, 2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rhetoric matters. That is almost too basic to be worth saying, but it bears…against which the law or regulation is interpreted.</span>
====== ====== 
===K of Civilization:=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Infrastructure is a critical component of civilization; it creates the illusion of avoiding nature.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lappin et al, 11. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Infrastructure is important. Normally that statement… please don’t take any of these structures for granted.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Society silences horrors and causes the worst atrocities.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jensen, 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As is true for most children, when I was young I heard the world speak… our experiences, and our cultural and personal histories. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The health of nature is the only standard of success.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jensen 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But the fact remains that if we judge my work… Their health is the measure of our success.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**We have to remember within ourselves to listen to the voices of nature; the state destroys nature and value to life.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jensen 12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">What has emerged from this questioning is a book about listening… frustrate our talents, impoverish our internal lives.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alt is to reject all instances of infrastructure and cause the collapse of civ.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thinking enables us to interact with the world in a sustainable way.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Housman and Flynn 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">His final lecture, “The Turn”, gathers all of his thought from the three… a shift in how we dwell in such a positioned world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their framework prevents solvency of enviro and value to life; this ensures destruction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ferrara 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental sociology explains that societies are… human activities fit with a healthy planet in our days and in the future.</span>
=== === 
===Nietzsche:=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The world is a combination of chaos and order. By constructing the fantasy of a stable world to which we must aspire, the affirmative participates in a hegemonic securitization of reality and rejection of chaos. This will to order vilifies life by positing suffering and uncertainty as inherently defective aspects of existence that must be eliminated. </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Saurette 96</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation… the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff’s focus on the transformation into a world without suffering resents the only world we have – this hatred of the status quo destroys capacity for the affirmation of life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turanli 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics. Unlike… fly the way out of the fly-bottle" (PI §309).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Suffering is an unavoidable condition of being human – the idea we can control the world and eliminate suffering destroys all value to life. The alt is to reject the aff for their conceptions of suffering. This enables us to subsume suffering and fill the void.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kain 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have seen that in Nietzsche's opinion we cannot bear…</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">meaning he has succeeded in imposing on it.</span>
=== === 
===Security:=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Thinking transportation is key to the economy is part of vital systems securitization** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collier </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and Lakoff 9</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The genealogy of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">vital systems security can…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> establishing an actuarial framework for assessing earthquake risk.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Vote neg to reject the affirmatives flawed security discourse as a prior action to policy action.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have to accept that the harms they claim probably won’t happen and won’t cause human extinction—the only reason that we’re scared of them is media hype. Reject this thought process because it culminates in serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Furedi 10</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the 21st century the optimistic belief in humanity's potential…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">risk assessment, that led to a panicky official ban on air traffic</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Threat constructions shape reality and make constructing new threats inevitable.**  </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon 96</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Metaphysics, therefore, becomes material in politics of security because metaphysically… dynamic pre-figured in its very inception; the real prospect of human species extinction.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]