[[toc]]
=Elections= 
==1NC (Libya Scenario)== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama has a narrow lead in Ohio—almost all polls point in his favor</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Costa, 9/12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert, Washington-based political reporter for National Review. He covers the White House, Congress, and campaigns, “Mitt Romney’s Ohio Obstacle’”, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/316589/mitt-romney-s-ohio-obstacle-robert-costa]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Mitt Romney faces serious challenges in Ohio, a critical [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/316589/mitt-romney-s-ohio-obstacle-robert-costa?pg=1|swing state]]. The economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> million to run more than 14,000 ads during the same period.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Ohio CRITICAL for national election of both candidates – highest percentage its tipping-point state</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Silver 8/30</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– NYT Political Blogger, Leading Polling Statistician </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nate, “Aug. 29: So Much Depends Upon Ohio”, August 30, 2012, 3:54 AM153 Comments [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/aug-29-so-much-depends-upon-ohio/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The broader point is simply that Ohio is so important to the electoral calculus that </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> favor Obama now, before his national show to showcase himself has started.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Romney will strike- he wants military interventions in Libya</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Bilzerian 9/6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(9/6/12, Adam Bilzerian, Chief staff writer for the Bilzerian Report, “Breaking Bad: The Mitt Romney Story” [[http://thebilzerianreport.com/?p=2129]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> In 2011, Romney supported military intervention in Libya to oust Muammar Gaddafi. Most </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> wants to send the rebels arms, essentially arming terrorists who hate America.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> That causes a laundry list of impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Gibbs’ 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(January 12, 2012, David Gibbs, Foreign Policy In Focus contributor David N. Gibbs is professor of history at the University of Arizona in Tucson. His latest book is First Do No Harm: Humanitarian Intervention and the Destruction of Yugoslavia (Vanderbilt, 2009). “Libya and the New Warmongering”, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/libya_and_the_new_warmongering]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The NATOintervention in Libya is likely to produce a more militarized and insecure world</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in even worse shape than was the case before the fall of Gaddafi.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]