[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Neg v. Lakeland PS
Judge: Whitmore

2NR: State K, Terror K, case

==1NC== 
===K=== 
Our government is corrupted by special interests---we have to __effectively diagnose__ the problem to fix it
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Al Gore 1-29</span> (2013, He Created the Series of Tubez we call the Internets, //The Future//, Chapter 3 on Kindle edition)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">WITH A TIGHTLY INTEGRATED GLOBAL ECONOMY AND A PLANET-WIDE digital network… great political shifts.”</span>

Simulating transportation policy is an outgrowth of apocalyptic nostalgia that cedes our agency to political elites
**Lindsey, PhD in Political Science from Columbia, 12** <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Dr Jason, </span>**PhD in Political Science from Columbia University** <span style="font-size: 12px;">and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>
I. Introduction
For the political scientist<span style="font-size: 8px;">…</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> is a greater challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>
And---their hyped up extinction scenarios are government tactics to consolidate authority in the hands of the elite---neuroscience demonstrates that they are literally brainwashing us into __Fascism__
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Livingston, Professor of Government @ Cornell, 12</span> (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE
Deliberative democracy is a…//central black hole//<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>
The alternative is to __shut off the simulation__ and take responsibility for our own __political agency__ --- you should vote for the team that trains activists to tear through the illusion of democracy, not politicians who defend it
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pitkin 98</span> (hanna, Prof of polis ci @ Berkeley, //The Attack of the Blob//, pp 274-284)
The Lost Treasure
<span style="font-size: 8px;">That brings us to the second half of Arendt's…What do you say?</span>

===1NC Terrorism=== 

**No impact to the 1AC—Their inflated impact claims feed a politics of fear that empowers elites and amplifies the impact of terrorism—endorse the critique to exorcise the power of their terrorist threat narrative.**
**Jackson 8** (Richard, Director at the National Center for Peace and Conflict Studies 2/14/08, “The Study of Terrorism after 11 September 2001: Problems, Challenges and Future Developments,” Political Studies Review, volume: 7, p. 171.184, JS)

In contrast to the … __terrorism threat narrative__ (see Zulaika and Douglass, 1996).

No risk of nuclear terror
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mueller 10</span>__** (John, professor of political science at Ohio State, Calming Our Nuclear Jitters, Issues in Science and Technology, Winter, [[http://www.issues.org/26.2/mueller.html]])

Politicians<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of all stripes </span>…three billion per attempt.


No capability or impact to bioterror attack
Keller 3/7
(Rebecca, “Bioterrorism and the Pandemic Potential” March 7, 2013, Stratfor)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The risk of</span> an …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> necessary human contact.</span>

No HEU bomb
Packard 10
(Steve, senior member at the James Randi Educational foundation, degrees in IT and computer science, “Highly Enriched Uranium In Chile: Proliferation Danger or Red Herring?” April 9th, 2010, Depleted Cranium)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the 1970’s …</span> //any// //nuclear weapon//.

==2NC== 


====2NC Impacts==== 


The USFG is a puppet for wall street elites who collapsed the global economy with their greed, military industrialists who sent us into two wars in the middle east which killed hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, women and children, and cost taxpayers’ TRILLIONS, ignored thousands of Americans in Katrina, and gave us the highest infant mortality rate; biggest prison population and the highest homicide rate in the developed world---our politicians lie to us to scare us into obedience---we outweigh on magnitude and probability

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jackson 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">—Director of the National Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, the University of Otago. Former. Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth University (8/5/12, Richard, The Great Con of National Security, [[@http://richardjacksonterrorismblog.wordpress.com/2012/08/05/the-great-con-of-national-security/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">It may have once been the case … suffer worse health as a consequence.</span>


There’s concrete evidence---132 americans spent 60% of the money in the 2012 elections, lobbyists literally write the bills that congress passes, and both sides of the aisle agree money buys votes

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lessig, Harvard prof, 11</span>** (Lawrence, Head of Center for Ethics @ Harvard and for prof at Stanford Law, (2011-10-05). Republic, Lost: How Money Corrupts Congress--and a Plan to Stop It (chapter ‘Beyond Suspicion’). Grand Central Publishing. Kindle Edition. )



<span style="font-size: 8px;">Consider two statements by two prominent Republicans…. and exactly what it misses.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Specific ev about transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Witkin 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Gordon, Analyst for the Center for Public Integrity, “The perils of a highway bill</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Boehner, others want new road spending, but watch out for special interests,” 2011, [[http://www.publicintegrity.org/2011/10/14/7115/perils-highway-bill]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">The latest idea for jump-starting the economy? …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> new transportation measure</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Causes transportation to backfire</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Public Integrity 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Crafting a transportation billwww.publicintegrity.org/2009/09/16/4330/crafting-transportation-bill</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">The nature of the debate …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> isn’t much</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;"> of a system at all.</span>



They’ve mishandled the K---It DOESN’T MATTER IF THE PLAN IS A GOOD IDEA BECAUSE IT’s a NAÏVE FANTASY---they have to JUSTIFY their METHODOLOGICAL RELIANCE ON SIMULATION---They’ve turned debate into a political Disneyland where we escape all the REAL POLITICAL PROBLEMS that face our nation---Voting negative is the ethical option to resist authoritarianism
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pitkin 98</span>** (hanna, Prof of polis ci @ Berkeley, The Attack of the Blob, pp 269---274)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Besides, there are still other approaches to …</span> **__barbed wire and bombs__**.<span style="font-size: 8px;">77</span>



====2NC AT Perm==== 

The perm severs the hypothetical enactment of the plan---makes them a moving target– voting issue for fairness---And, if they don’t simulate, vote neg on presumption because there’s no advantage

And, we’re impact turning their methodology---we’ll do our link analysis here to prove the perm’s illogical

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Our first link is Elitist Fear Mongering through the micropolitics of media manipulation is brainwashing the citizenry into docility---the 1AC bombards us with hyped up extinction scenarios to trigger our amygdala’s FEAR reflex --- the 2AC has ZERO EVIDENCE that answers the NEUROSCIENCE OF FEAR---the amygdala prefigures the thoughts of the cerebral cortex which means that their projection of fear makes LOGICAL RISK ANALYSIS impossible because Fear infects our decisionmaking---the echo chamber of debate HARDWIRES ELITIS T CORRUPTION INTO OUR BRAINS**</span>

You should frame this debate through the lens of brain science
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Economist 2</span> (The future of mind control, [[http://www.economist.com/node/1143583|www.economist.com/node/1143583]]

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Such a procedure (and there…the field can discuss anything else.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fear of terrorism injects racist impressions into the subconscious of the American people which is why everyone assumed the boston bombing would be Muslim—that’s a decision rule </span>**
**Memmi 2K**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ U of Paris, Naiteire, Racism, Translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163-165)</span>

__The struggle against__ __…stakes are irresistible.__

1st Link is simulation---debate after debate, tournament after tournament, _ simulates to solve , year after year the debaters pray at the altar of the USFG to save the world from every threat imaginable---despite the fact that we can’t pass background checks on online gun sales because the NRA is more powerful than the people, we continuously pretend that the government will swoop in with the perfect policy---this pacifies us into accepting the boundaries of squo politics which allows corporate corruption to continue unchallenged---that’s Lindsey---this method of political decisionmaking warps our minds into believing the government is the modern messiah---normalizes corruptioat a cognitive level---they have no defense of their epistemology
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Le Cheminant 10</span>__</span>
(Wayne, Assistant Prof of Poli Sci and Asian Studies at Cal Poly Pomona, Chapter 4: “Bending the Frames to Corrupt the Lenses,” in Corruption and American Politics, kindle reader)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">In this chapter, </span><span class="TitleChar">I </span>look at//…//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> no matter how spurious.</span>





Specifically, fantasies of spatial planners solidify elitist control

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gunder & Hillier 9</span>Michael Gunder, Associate Professor, Associate Head Research & Postgraduate â€“ Planning at University of Auckland (New Zealand), and Jean Hillier, professor of Town and Country Planning at Newcastle University and Managing Editor of the international journal 'Planning Theory', Planning in Ten Words or Less: A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning,

<span style="font-size: 8px;">To some degree most, or perhaps … the ethical and the normative' (Laclau 2000, 81). </span>





**The impact is authoritarianism**

Gunder & Hillier 9

**Michael Gunder, Associate Professor, Associate Head Research & Postgraduate â€“ Planning at University of Auckland (New Zealand), and Jean Hillier, professor of Town and Country Planning at Newcastle University and Managing Editor of the international journal 'Planning Theory', Planning in Ten Words or Less: A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning,**

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The spatial planning literature…•relate to the world* (Ruti 2008.486).</span>


====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**2NC Epist Indict** </span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Gartenstein-Ross is a neocon hack who profits from terror threat-con</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Greenwald 12</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Glenn, JD in Constitutional Law and recipient of the first annual I.F. Stone Award for Independent Journalism and winner of the 2010 Online Journalism Association Award and author of three New York Times Bestselling books and named as one of the 25 most influential political commentators in the nation, “The sham “terrorism expert” industry” Aug 15, 2012, Salon)</span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Gartenstein-Ross’</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> entire …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> for this industry.</span>




====2NC At: Policymaking Skills==== 

Group all policymaking good offense---we internal link turn all of it---their prescriptive understanding of policymaking is a DRASTIC OVERSIMPLIFICATION---They ignore special interest corruption and partisan gridlock---

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Payne, professor @ political science at Yale 10</span> (James, also prof @ Wesleyan, Johns Hopkins, and Texas A&M , //Six Political Illusions// kindle version, chapter 3)

//The human mind// //…//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> . if you drop it off a bridge.</span>


AND---WE’RE IMPACT TURNING ---

**Even NDT Champions agree debate doesn’t teach you shit about real policymaking details---we won’t be in congress for 20 years, by then the whole political situation will be different means there skills aren’t portable-- Josh <span class="il">Branson 7</span>**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS and just graduated from Harvard Law,</span> **2007** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(“[eDebate] Reflections about debate and policymaking”, [[@http://www.mail-archive.com/edebate@www.ndtceda.com/msg01593.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Well, thats not the way … the region to implode.</span>

Epistemology
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hayes 12</span> (Christopher, Editor of The Nation and fellow @ Harvard’s Foundation Center for Ethics, (2012-06-12). Twilight of the Elites: America After Meritocracy (Kindle Locations 34-58), chapter 1)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> now </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">operate in …to take responsibility*.</span>

**State terrorism outweighs their contrived impact claims**
**Jackson et al 10** (Richard, Senior Researcher @ Centre for the Study of Radicalization and Contemporary Political Violence and Reader in Politics @ Aberystwyth University, Eamon Murphy is Professor of History and International Relations at Curtin University of Technology in Western Australia, and Scott Poynting is Professor in Sociology, Manchester Metropolitan University, “Contemporary State Terrorism: Theory and Practice, p. 1)

By all accounts, __…global war on terrorism.__

**Their terrorism experts are an epistemic community who provide a cloak of objectivity for policymakers to justify military interventions throughout the global South.**
**Raphael 9** (Sam, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at Kingston University, London, __Critical Terrorism Studies: A New Research Agenda__, ed. Jackson, Smyth, and Gunning, p. 49-51,)

Over the past thirty years…for the US state.

**All of their epistemological claims about terrorism are wrong because the state controls knowledge production.**
**Jackson 7** (Richard, Department of International Politics, University of Wales, 1/9/07 “the core commitments of critical terrorism studies” European Political Science, Volume 6 Number 3, pages 1-8)

Without discounting the …__supporting their interests?__



====<span style="text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">2NC AT Roleplaying Accurate </span>__**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">And, their methodology normalizes special interest corruption---oversimplified simulations lead to serial policy failure</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Seligman 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">(Jason, John Glenn School of Public Affairs, The Ohio State University, Simulation Design for Policy Audiences: Informing Decision in the Face of Uncertainty , (2012-06-12). Simulation for Policy Inquiry (Kindle Locations 510-514). Springer New York. Kindle Edition. )</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">When Congress debates</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;"> …technically capable audiences.</span>

====<span style="text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">2NC AT Rawls </span>__**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Lobbyists DA---INDEPENDENT IMPACT TURN TO ALL OF THEIR SKILLS COME BEFORE PLAN</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pitkin 98</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (hanna, Prof of polis ci @ Berkeley, The Attack of the Blob, pp 256-257)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">It seems obvious to me …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;"> message-sending, and credibility</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">.9</span>

==1NR== 
===K - alt=== 
Our Framework and our alt are intertwined---you are a free thinking citizen deciding what story you believe - do you believe the aff team of politicians painting a rhetorically powerful story about how the government is going to save the world, or are you fed up with politicians’ lies? --- vote negative to reject the campaign promises of corrupt politicians in favor of free thinking citizens trying to save our democracy from wall street elites---the alt is a pre-requisite to solving the aff
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Livingston 12</span>** (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Their </span>**__redescription of__**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> these kinds of</span>**__…of reason giving.__**

Education outweighs fairness – debate should be about training effective advocates because skills go beyond the round

You should POLITICIZE THE BALLOT AGAINST THEIR RELIANCE ON THE USFG---we have to work outside of the system
**__Lessig 11__** (Lawrence, Head of Center for Ethics @ Harvard and for prof at Stanford Law, (2011-10-05). Republic, Lost: How Money Corrupts Congress--and a Plan to Stop It (pp. 317-319). Grand Central Publishing. Kindle Edition. )
<span style="font-size: 8px;">I’ve outlined four strategies for effecting the … not the same for country?</span>

Group their alt solvency arguments---
They really don’t have any - Prefer our Meta level Args over their techy line by line analysis---we’re K’ing the way they’ve turned debate into a political game…you cant evaluate this within their paradigm because it eviscerates truth---use your ballot to tell the aff team that they need to WAKE UP TO REALITY and WAKE UP TO THEIR OWN POWER
The only arg they have is that the alt uses fiat too – we’re not fiatting that activism happens, we’re making it happen – this round is key – that’s not fiat

**And - Cooption DA to the perm**
**Gunning 7 (**Jeroen, Reader in Middle East Politics and Conflict Studies, Durham University, UK, 1/9/07, “babies and bathwaters: reflecting on the pitfalls of critical terrorism studies” European Political Science, Volume 6 Number 3, pages 236 – 243)

However, __engaging policy-makers__ __…becomes too diluted__.

Anthony votes neg – the alt is a responsible way for engaging with terrorism, the aff precludes that
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Anthony ‘6</span>
(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367)MPARA

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our newly found,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … for national security.</span>

THIS SINGLE DECISION MATTERS---EVERY SINGLE MOMENT WE CAN MOVE TOWARD FREEDOM OR TOWARD FASCISM…we’ve proven that their aff is the most utopian possible idea so there’s only a chance that our alt is a better option---we’ve got comparative ev on the perm, it represents the failed Obama strategy---he campaigned on change but all we got was more of the same
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hayes 12</span> (Christopher, Editor of The Nation and fellow @ Harvard’s Foundation Center for Ethics, (2012-06-12). Twilight of the Elites: America After Meritocracy (Kindle Locations 34-58), chapter 1, second half)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Part of the reason for that …</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">malfeasance and</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">elite corruption.</span>
===Case=== 
====Overview==== 
2 Framing arguments:
a. View case arguments through the lens of our K link args – proves their authors rely on a threat inflated model of reality which is an epistemology DA and is terminal defense if we don’t answer every argument because it all relies on the same constructed based – flow arg
b. The aff is a double turn – if terrorists have the capability and the motivation now, and their authors are correct that we’re vulnerable, there should have been an attack – proves our arguments that there’s no motivation or organization for these kinds of attacks

====2NC no nuke terror==== 
No nuke terror: takes too long, too high-risk, terrorist preferences, and empirics – Al Qaeda’s best efforts never moved past planning – that’s Mueller.

Statistic proves – aggregating the chances of success for each step puts the chance at one in a million, and that’s worst-case.
[This proves “no motivation” – difficulties will cause terrorists to use other weapons.]

No acquisition – no nukes have __ever__ gone missing, tons are converted into scrap, can’t transport, and can’t test weapons, plus __nobody wants to risk it__ – that’s Chapman.

No loose nukes
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mueller 9</span>__**- John Mueller, Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies, Mershon Center

Professor of Political Science30 April 2009 “THE ATOMIC TERRORIST?”[[@http://www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf]]

There has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> also </span>been <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">experienced with reality.14</span>

No impact even if it is stolen
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Buchanan</span>, Analyst – MSNBC, 9/21/<span style="font-size: 16px;">’7</span>
(Patrick, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/09/is_terrorism_a_mortal_threat.html]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Terrorism</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, said Powell, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> equal to Finland's.</span>
====2NC no bioterror==== 
No impact to bioterror—that’s Keller
Access—dangerous pathogens are kept in high-security labs that terrorists can’t access—the risk of a successful attack is __stupidly low__ – their ev makes generic claims about unsecured labs everywhere – that’s a double bind – either terrorists would have already taken the weapons already or the labs are secure and terrorists can’t get them

Technology—terrorists __don’t have the capability__ to weaponize the viruses
No spread—sunlight, wind, and humidity all __prevent the spread__—any attack would be localized and contained

No risk of bioterror
<span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stratfor 7</span>__</span>, private intelligence agency, analyzes geopolitical trends, 12/21/ (“Bioterrorism: Sudden Death Overtime?,” http://www2.stratfor.com/analysis/bioterrorism_sudden_death_overtime)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In this season of large college … with creepy bioterror. </span>

No impact – slow spread and defense mechanisms
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mueller 99</span>, John Mueller, Prof. Pol. Sci. @ Ohio State and Karl Mueller, June, ’99 (Foreign Affairs, l/n)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Biological weapons seem …</span>civil defense measures.

====2NC no HEU==== 

No risk of HEU terrorism—stealing enough HEU is __impossible__—irradiation of the material means terrorists can’t handle it—__any decay__ makes it unusable for a bomb—that’s Packard—


Multiple tech hurdles make HEU theft and deployment impossible
Hashmi 12
(Muhammad, Prof & Lecturer in Department of Political Science & International Relations @ U Gujarat and M.Phil. in Defence and Strategic Studies. He has authored a book entitled “Nuclear Terrorism in Pakistan: Myth of Reality?”, “Difficulties For Terrorists To Fabricate Nuclear RDD/IND Weapons – Analysis” January 30, 2012, Eurasia Review)

It could be …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> finance and organization.</span>

Nuclear consensus --- too many barriers and non-nuclear expertise
Jaspal 12
(Zafar, Author is Associate Professor at the School of Politics and International Relations, Quaid-i-Azam University, “Nuclear/Radiological Terrorism: Myth or Reality?” Journal of Political Studies, Vol. 19, Issue - 1, 2012, 91:111)

The nuclear<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> fissile material </span>…and Judith Perera wrote:

Even theyre overcome, they wouldn’t know if the bomb was viable
Us Russia Joint <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Threat Assessment</span> May <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">11</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ABOUT THE U.S.-RUSSIA JOINT THREAT ASSESSMENT ON NUCLEAR TERRORISM The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism is a collaborative project of Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and the U.S.A. and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences led by Rolf Mowatt-Larssen and Pavel Zolotarev. Authors: • Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. • Colonel Yuri Morozov (retired Russian Armed Forces). Professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 1995–2000. • Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, 2005–2008. • Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Moscow-based defense and security expert and writer, 1993–2008. • William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and director of the U.S.-Russia Initiative to Prevent Nuclear Terrorism, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. • Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. • Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. Contributor: • Vladimir Lukov, director general of autonomous non-profit organization “Counter-Terrorism Center.” </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There are two basic types…</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">substantial nuclear yield.</span>










=Round 2= 
**Aff against bellarmine SV**
**Judge: Shree Asware**

Transportation infrastructure is rooted in an ableist conception of a ‘normal’ body…transportation planners and debaters alike take our ability to drive to the airport, walk onto a plane, and come up the stairs for granted
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Imrie 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Rob, University of London Geography Professor , January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> pg. 1652)</span>

Introduction Mobility and movement are core … independent trajectories’’.

Conventional norms of policy debate would have us wave a magic wand to wish away these problems, however, we think that __this debate matters__ in the struggle for __social justice__
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bérubé 2</span>** (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “citizenship and disability,” adapted from a talk given at the 2002 convention of the Arc of the United States (formerly the Association of Retarded Citizens of the United States).

Over eleven years, then … democracy worthy of the name.

Vote for our politics of mobility to create the possibility of accessible transportation infrastructure investment by the USFG. We need to deconstruct ableism at the social level before prescriptive policy solutions can be effective
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Imrie 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Rob, University of London Geography Professor , January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> pg. 1652)</span>

[people with disabilities]’s mobility … participation are meaningless’’ (Corker, 1998, page 75)

Instrumental fiat constructs disability an __abstract, theoretical__ issue, instead, This debate is a space to inject __real__ voices into the discussion of transportation policy to demonstrate the complexity of experience
**Ferri 11** (Beth A, PhD, associate professor in disability studies and inclusive education at Syracuse University, “Disability Life Writing and the Politics of Knowing”, Acedemia.edu, http://www.academia.edu/651432/Disability_Life_Writing_and_the_Politics_of_Knowing)

To define ourselves, name ourselves … suppress,but to embrace

We continue this dialogue with a series of testimonies designed to diversify essentialist policy assumptions
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Imrie 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Rob, University of London Geography Professor , January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> pg. 1652)</span>

For many people … body as the body dys-appears’’.

And, the life writing of Mia Mingus in 2010 demonstrates her experience with accessibility
**Mingus 10** (Mia, physically disabled, queer and transnational writer and organizer for social justice movements concerning disability and sexual violence. An acclaimed community advocate and loving friend, Mia has devoted her life to seeking transformative justice. “Wherever you are is Where I Want to be: Crip Solidarity”, Leaving Evidence, 5/3/10, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2010/05/03/where-ever-you-are-is-where-i-want-to-be-crip-solidarity/]]</span>)

I want to be with you. If you … doing so, love ourselves.

And, developing a space for interaction between differing perspectives is essential to a common political project to accept vulnerability
Julia **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kristeva, ‘10</span>** (psychoanalyst, and professor at the Institut Universitaire de France. Director of the doctoral program "Langue, littérature, image" at the University of Paris Diderot-Paris 7, she is a tutelary member of the Psychoanalytical Society of Paris and doctor honoris causa of a number of universities where she teaches regularly in the United States, Canada, and Europe, “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, and . . . Vulnerability”, Women's Studies Quarterly. New York: Spring 2010. Vol. 38, Iss. 1/2, Proquest)

Disabilities are multiple … politics of disability?

And, Mia’s experiences demonstrate that political reform without simultaneously addressing ableism will produce fear instead of love
**Mingus 12** (Mia, physically disabled, queer and transnational writer and organizer for social justice movements concerning disability and sexual violence. An acclaimed community advocate and loving friend, Mia has devoted her life to seeking transformative justice. “Feeling the Weight: Some Beginning Notes on Disability, Access and Love”, Leaving Evidence, 5/8/12, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2012/05/08/feeling-the-weight-some-beginning-notes-on-disability-access-and-love/]]</span>)

This is a beginning; a dive … fear of losing love.

This debate is about destabilizing the ideological assumptions of ableism
**Cherney 11** (James L, Wayne State U, vol 31 no 3 (2011), "The Rhetoric of Ableism," dsq-sds.org/article/view/1665/1606

Stuart Hall defines … political action.

And---instead of treating disability as a negative problem to be cured by policy reform, our scholarship must deconstruct the assumed normality and perfectibility of the body. Voting aff acknowledges the the need to accept the diversity of life worlds
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Campbell 9</span>** (Fiona Kumari, Prof at Griffith Law School in Australia, Convenor of the Australasia’s largest postgraduate disability studies program in the School of Human Services & Social Work at Griffith, //Contours of Ableism: The Production of Disability and Abledness//, pp 3-6)

My approach is three pronged … considered in more detail.
===2AC=== 

====2AC Case extension==== 
Transportation Infrastructure policy is ingrained with ablenormative conceptions at all levels – the very concept of mobility is used to create binary dynamics between abled and disabled – these justify the exclusion of those not seen to be fully human and fuel ablenormative thought – that’s Imrie
The 1AC is a performative break with ableism – our use of first person narratives demonstrates the true corporeal reality of disability – that opens up a space for political action by breaking out of the traditional modes of ableist thought – that’s Ferri
Deconstructing ontologies of ableism is a prior question – that’s the Campbell evidence
We are the crip solidarity that Mingus talks about – we stick together, move together, love together, and are advocates for social justice together – our aff is the disability civil rights movement
Their strategies are based on a fear __bodily decay__ – humans can’t accept their own fragility, and our advocacy opens up a narcissistic vulnerability within them - this is used to justify __exclusionary policies__, oppression and mass violence – our aff is a disad to their performance – that’s Kristeva
This is a __framing issue__ for evaluating advocacies – their performance reinscribes ontologies of ableism – independent reason to vote aff

The worst forms of ableism are motivated by underlying fear of disability
**Macrae 8** (Ian, editor of “Disability Now”, “Ian Macrae: This Hatred is Borne out of Fear of Disability”, The Independent, 10/06/08, http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/commentators/ian-macrae-this-hatred-is-borne-out-of-fear-of-disability-952584.html)


People – even some [people with disabilities] … for the homophobe.

==== ==== 
====2AC Narratives Good==== 
Straight turn - Life-writings expose and deconstruct hegemonic narratives
**Soler et al 12** (Janet, Christopher S. Walsh, Anna Craft, Jonathan Rix, Katy Simmons, Department of Education at the Open University, “transforming Practice: critical issues in equity, diversity and education”, Open University, http://www.academia.edu/1966377/Docile_citizens_Using_counternarratives_to_disrupt_normative_and_dominant_discourses)

Chapter 11<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Docile citizens? Using counternarratives to<span style="font-size: 8px;">…</span> viewed widely online.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>126<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>II<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>
====2AC Framework==== 
Counter-interpretation: debate should train activists, not politicians - we propose a topical, resolutional advocacy, but, this debate should be about the social movement to cause the plan to pass ---- They still get all topic specific ground and anything that tests the link between infrastructure and ableism – you just don’t get process based strategies
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bryant 11</span> (Levi, Morton on Incrementalism , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/) “[Institutional power]” added
//The//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> entire </span>//rhetoric of …//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> There’s never an excuse for activist punching.</span>

And---definitional support---Resolved is about how to create action
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pezze 6</span> (Barbara, PhD Philosophy at Honk Kong U, “Heidegger on Gelassenheit”, Minerva, vol .10, http://www.ul.ie/~philos/vol10/Heidegger.html)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Let us pause for a moment …</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of releasement [Verhaltenheit der Gelassenheit]. (Heidegger 1966a, p. 81) </span>
The role of the ballot is to endorse the best process for forming opinions about policies. We should form our opinions from the perspective of the people whose lives are affected on a daily basis by ableism, not from the perspective of disconnected government actors – we still think the plan is a good idea, but this debate is about opening up space for different types of justifications based on life writings
Dr. Scott **Harris 13** (Head Coach of the Jayhawks, infamous intramural star @ KU, has yet to effectively guard a single one of my jump shots, “This Ballot”)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">While this ballot has meandered off on a … happens in a debate round.</span>

Their FW is based on a fear of a politically disabled debater – they can’t accept different lifeworlds and so try to force us to conform to their normative debate culture – they are obsessed with the normal body of research and a pure form of debate – their FW arguments are fundamentally eugenics
Simulation causes political apathy
**Lindsey 12** (Dr Jason, PhD from Columbia University and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)
I. Introduction
For the political scientist<span style="font-size: 8px;">, …</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">, is a greater challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>
====Aesthetics K==== 
There is absolutely no link - the aff does not make a claim about aesthetics—
We’re a link turn—squo medicinal gaze __fetishes the body of persons with disabilities__ as an oddity that should be marked as other—the aff __ruptures this relationship__—that’s Imrie—
Does not apply to our aff—we don’t make a claim about aesthetics and we’re not just pasting “disabilities” onto squo politics—the aff challenges the entire basis of western cultural constructions because they’re rooted in ableist assumptions—the aff creates a __truly democratic politics__ rather than a hierarchical relationship
Read the Ferri evidence – the reason that we read life writings is to portray disability as it truly is – it’s not simplified into something beautiful, it’s someth
Floating PIKs are a voting issue – steal the entirety of the 1AC and make the neg a moving target – vote aff to set a precedent

Turn – we embrace a politics of ugliness
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mingus 11</span> (Mia, Moving Toward the Ugly: A Politic Beyond Desirability, leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2011/08/22/moving-toward-the-ugly-a-politic-beyond-desirability/
<span style="font-size: 8px;">It is important to say that </span>//I can …// just some of us.

====2AC AT Cap==== 
Perm do both without rejecting the aff – an intersectional approach to oppression accounts for the complexities of embodied experience
Mia Mingus is a queer, biracial, transnational adopted community organizer – don’t evaluate their generic root cause claims because oppression affects everyone unpredictably and monolithic explanations mean the alt devolves into fascism
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Morson 7</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Gary, Professor of Slavic Studies, Russian Literature and History at Northwestern, “Anna Karenina In Our Time: Seeing More Wisely,” P. 152-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">If Levin resembled so may </span>//…//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> not as complex as they appear. </span>
Alt fails in the face of material, lived realities
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bryant 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> ( levi, prof of philosophy at Collins college, Critique of the Academic Left, http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/11/11/underpants-gnomes-a-critique-of-the-academic-left/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The problem as …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Good luck with that.</span>__**

I don’t have to do much on this flow because of Ferri – they’ve conceded it from the 1AC
Reflexivity means the permutation solves the residual links – our advocacy is informed and revisable—that’s Berube
====Maybe FW==== 
Predictability turns us into government drones
Richard <span style="font-size: 16px;">Delgado, ’92</span> (Charles Inglis Thomson Professor of Law, University of Colorado. J.D, University of California at Berkeley, “ESSAY SHADOWBOXING: AN ESSAY ON POWER”, 77 Cornell L. Rev. 813, Lexis)
<span class="underline">It is important to … </span>into<span class="underline"> harmless </span>technocrats<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. n70</span>
====2AC AT Wrong Forum==== 
There is no objectively true form of debate
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Lundberg 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> (Christian O, Master of the House of Theory, Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p306-313)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Because they are</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> … the most to them.</span>

=Round 3= 
==1NC== 
Our government is corrupted by special interests and producing massive structural violence
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Al Gore 1-29</span> (2013, He Created the Series of Tubez we call the Internets, //The Future//, Chapter 3 on Kindle edition)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">WITH A TIGHTLY INTEGRATED … great political shifts.”</span>
Specifically true of transportation
**Witkin 11** (Gordon, Analyst for the Center for Public Integrity, “The perils of a highway bill
Boehner, others want new road spending, but watch out for special interests,” 2011, [[http://www.publicintegrity.org/2011/10/14/7115/perils-highway-bill]])

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The latest idea for jump,,,</span> new transportation measure<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>
Serial policy failure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Public Integrity 9</span> (Crafting a transportation billwww.publicintegrity.org/2009/09/16/4330/crafting-transportation-bill
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The nature of the debate affects …</span> //isn’t much//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of a system at all.</span>
Simulation pacifies the populace into a false sense of security---we can’t handle the apocalyptic realities of the ecological crisis and technological risk so we resort to nostalgic longing for a functional political system
**Lindsey, PhD in Political Science from Columbia, 12** <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Dr Jason, </span>**PhD in Political Science from Columbia University** <span style="font-size: 12px;">and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>
I. Introduction
For the political scientist<span style="font-size: 8px;">, …</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> is a greater challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>
Living within the nostalgic, utopian illusion of a functional, ethical government hinders decisionmaking skills and allows ongoing violence and serial policy failure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Payne, professor @ political science at Yale 10</span> (James, also prof @ Wesleyan, Johns Hopkins, and Texas A&M , //Six Political Illusions// kindle version, introduction chapter)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, the frontier of noble …</span>//be aware// //of them.//

The alternative is to shut down the simulation and WAKE UP TO the REALITY of the puppet government controlled by wallstreet elites
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Paulus 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Chris, The Puppet Show: Our American Dream Inverted, www.occupy.com/article/puppet-show-our-american-dream-inverted)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Shakespeare, Mark Twain or Oscar …</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">behind the stage.</span>

And---their hyped up extinction scenarios are government tactics to consolidate authority in the hands of the elite---neuroscience demonstrates that they are literally brainwashing us into __Fascism__
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Livingston, Professor of Government @ Cornell, 12</span> (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE
Deliberative democracy is a …//central black hole//<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>

==2NC== 
====2NC Impact Bizness==== 
The USFG is a puppet for wall street elites who collapsed the global economy with their greed, military industrialists who sent us into two wars in the middle east which killed hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, women and children, and cost taxpayers’ TRILLIONS, ignored thousands of Americans in Katrina, and gave us the highest infant mortality rate; biggest prison population and the highest homicide rate in the developed world---our politicians lie to us to scare us into obedience---we outweigh on magnitude and probability
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jackson 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">—Director of the National Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, the University of Otago. Former. Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth University (8/5/12, Richard, The Great Con of National Security, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">[[@http://richardjacksonterrorismblog.wordpress.com/2012/08/05/the-great-con-of-national-security/]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">It may have once been the case that … worse health as a consequence.</span>
And---thousands of lobbyists screw up transport policy by making it a gaggle of competing interests—specific turns case---they have zero ev about the policy rocess of T
They’ve mishandled the K---It DOESN’T MATTER IF THE PLAN IS A GOOD IDEA BECAUSE IT’s a NAÏVE FANTASY---they have to JUSTIFY their METHODOLOGICAL RELIANCE ON SIMULATION---They’ve turned debate into a political Disneyland where we escape all the REAL POLITICAL PROBLEMS that face our nation---Voting negative is the ethical option to resist authoritarianism
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pitkin 98</span>** (hanna, Prof of polis ci @ Berkeley, The Attack of the Blob, pp 269---274)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Besides, there are still other approaches to …</span> wire and bombs.<span style="font-size: 8px;">77</span>
==== ==== 
====2NC AT Perm==== 
The perm severs the hypothetical enactment of the plan---makes them a moving target– voting issue for fairness---And, if they don’t simulate, vote neg on presumption because there’s no advantage

And, we’re impact turning their methodology---we’ll do our link analysis here to prove the perm’s illogical

1st Link is simulation---debate after debate, tournament after tournament, _____ simulates ____ to solve ____, year after year the debaters pray at the altar of the USFG to save the world from every threat imaginable--- normalizes corruption at a cognitive level---they have no defense of their epistemology
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Le Cheminant 10</span> (Wayne, Assistant Prof of Poli Sci and Asian Studies at Cal Poly Pomona, Chapter 4: “Bending the Frames to Corrupt the Lenses,” in Corruption and American Politics, kindle reader)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">In this chapter, </span><span class="TitleChar">I </span>look at//…//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> matter how spurious.</span>

Their model of simulation internal link turns policy engagement---debate sucks our political energy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Beier 10</span> (Ian, Masters in communicatios from UNLV, Thesis: CASCADING SIMULATION: A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE ON BARACK OBAMA‘S FOREIGN POLICY DURING THE 2008 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION )
<span style="font-size: 8px;">At the same time as Debord‘s neo-Marxist…</span>a participant,<span style="font-size: 8px;"> in a race.</span>
The aff commodofies the suffering of ________ in exchange for your ballot in the debate economy---playing a game where we move scenarios of suffering around like chesspieces for our own personal enjoyment is the most unethical form of intellectual imperialism
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard 94</span>** [Jean, “The Illusion of the End” p. 66-71]
<span style="font-size: 8px;">We have long denounced … each day in pictures.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;"> </span>
====2NC At: Policymaking Skills==== 
Group all policymaking good offense---
**Even NDT Champions agree debate doesn’t teach you shit about real policymaking details---we won’t be in congress for 20 years, by then the whole political situation will be different means there skills aren’t portable-- Josh <span class="il">Branson 7</span>**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS and just graduated from Harvard Law,</span> **2007** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(“[eDebate] Reflections about debate and policymaking”, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://www.mail-archive.com/edebate@www.ndtceda.com/msg01593.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Well, thats not … region to implode.</span>


we internal link turn all of it---their prescriptive understanding of policymaking is a DRASTIC OVERSIMPLIFICATION---They ignore special interest corruption and partisan gridlock---
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Payne, professor @ political science at Yale 10</span> (James, also prof @ Wesleyan, Johns Hopkins, and Texas A&M , //Six Political Illusions// kindle version, chapter 3)
//The human mind// //…//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> . . . if you drop it off a bridge.</span>
==1NR== 

K TURNS THE AFF:

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">a. Heg</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Al Gore 1-29</span> (2013, He Created the Series of Tubez we call the Internets, //The Future//, Chapter 3 on Kindle edition)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">world’s international monetary … century’s great political shifts.”</span>
b. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The plan gets coopted for protectionism by lobbyists---thousands work on every single transport bill, means that the entirety of their internal link chain is bullshit because the plan doesn’t work</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Piattelli-Palmarini ’94</span> – Professor of Cognitive Science, Linguistics, Psychology @ ASU (Massimo, “Inevitable Illusions: How Mistakes of Reason Rule our Minds”, John Wiley & Sons, p. 134)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Here is deadly sin number 7 i…we might still discover.</span>
c. Trade - Read Lessig out of book

Our Framework and our alt are intertwined---you are a free thinking citizen deciding what story you believe - do you believe the aff team of politicians painting a rhetorically powerful story about how the government is going to save the world, or are you fed up with politicians’ lies? --- vote negative to reject the campaign promises of corrupt politicians in favor of free thinking citizens trying to save our democracy from wall street elites---the alt is a pre-requisite to solving the aff
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pitkin 98</span> (hanna, Prof of polis ci @ Berkeley, //The Attack of the Blob//, pp 274-284)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The depressing sense of … generated but aimed at public responsibility and power.</span>
They will lose this debate because they read McClean---we Straight Turn it because their simulation DIVORCES US FROM THE POLITICAL REALITY OF CORPORATE CORRUPTION and OLIGARCHY---Fiat skips over details of implementation - means we get slapped down by elitism Pros
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">McClean, 01</span> – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New York</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">There is a lot of philosophical prose on … toleration and </span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">oligarchy</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>
They don’t have any DAs specific to our path of activism - Prefer our Meta level Args over their techy line by line analysis---we’re K’ing the way they’ve turned debate into a political game…you cant evaluate this within their paradigm because it eviscerates truth---use your ballot to tell the aff team that they need to WAKE UP TO REALITY and WAKE UP TO THEIR OWN POWER

You should POLITICIZE THE BALLOT AGAINST THEIR RELIANCE ON THE USFG---we have to work outside of the system
**__Lessig 11__** (Lawrence, Head of Center for Ethics @ Harvard and for prof at Stanford Law, (2011-10-05). Republic, Lost: How Money Corrupts Congress--and a Plan to Stop It (pp. 317-319). Grand Central Publishing. Kindle Edition. )
<span style="font-size: 8px;">I’ve outlined four strategies for … not the same for country?</span>


THIS SINGLE DECISION MATTERS---EVERY SINGLE MOMENT WE CAN MOVE TOWARD FREEDOM OR TOWARD FASCISM…we’ve proven that their aff is the most utopian possible idea so there’s only a chance that our alt is a better option---we’ve got comparative ev on the perm, it represents the failed Obama strategy---he campaigned on change but all we got was more of the same
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hayes 12</span> (Christopher, Editor of The Nation and fellow @ Harvard’s Foundation Center for Ethics, (2012-06-12). Twilight of the Elites: America After Meritocracy (Kindle Locations 34-58), chapter 1, second half)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Part of the reason for that decline was that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">elite corruption.</span>



=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]