== == 

[[toc]]
Affirmative - qsure123@gmail.com
Negative - barron.andrew1@gmail.com
==Round 1== 

==Round 2== 
===Baudrillard Affirmative=== 
__**Contention 1 is Death**__

**Overgrown with weeds, wilted flowers, and cracked tombstones — the decline of our cemeteries and graveyards reveals the fact that society views death as biological --- excluding it as a social event—it is only ever the final beat of a heart and then you are forgotten.**

**There is no symbolic exchange—the dead are dried up like forgotten and lost gods our cemeteries fall, the dead are the least of our concern—seen as unproductive in our consumer society that fuels the violence of media driven destruction**
**Butterfield 2002** [Bradley. University of Wisconsin, La Crosse M.A. and Ph.D. in Comparative Literature, University of Oregon. The Baudrillardian Symbolic, 9/11, and the War of Good and Evil. PMC 13.1 2002. Project Muse.]
Despite this transparent warning, in Symbolic Exchange and Death (1976) Baudrillard …. which rids death of all the indifferent negativity it holds for us in the "natural" order of capital. (166)

**Life isn’t a preparation to have more life, more objects, and more happiness… it is a quest to prepare to die—but we forget this and assert immortality.**

**Every car door we slam, every key we turn, every cinnamon challenge taken is haunted by death**.

**Far from imagining a world without evil, violence, or car crashes, the plan returns social exchange with death—we refuse to be blackmailed by the desire to endlessly ward off death.**
**Baudrillard 1993** [Jean. French postmodern dude: philosopher, sociologist, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. Symbolic Exchange and Death. Page 177-178]
Securityis another form of socialcontrol, in …. group - each materialising for the other only as social capital indexed on death.

**We don’t assert death as a biologicalevent—rather we understand death as a social event—your ballot is a ritual tool, an initiation process, not an end to a debate career at the TOC, not an end to a round but a beginning—it reverses the biological assumption about death through a ceremony.**
**Your magical wand of fiat is a ritual staff, one that refuses to banish away death but rather rejects the splitting of life and death—this debate is about who has the best relation to the dead.**
Baudrillard 93 [Jean. French postmodern dude: philosopher, sociologist, cultural theorist political commentator, and photographer. Symbolic exchange and death. Page 131-132]

Savages have no biological concept of death. ….the same social act of exchange.

**This exclusion of the dead from our social spheres is the founding binary upon which all other forms of violence are built**
Andrew **Robinson**, a political theorist and activist based in the UK, March **2012**, “Jean Baudrillard: The Rise of Capitalism & the Exclusion of Death”, http://ceasefiremagazine.co.uk/in-theory-baudrillard-2/; hhs-psegura

According to Baudrillard, ….as long as ‘his’ life or death serves the reproduction of domination.

__**Contention 2 is The Symbolic Exchange**__

**Just as the twin towers served as a symbol of globalization, the Arlington cemetery is the lynchpin of American culture--- but the transportation involving the Arlington cemetery has been cut by sequestration**
**HCVA 4/10/13** House Committee on Veterans Affairs, “Witness Testimony of Ms. Kathryn Condon, Executive Director of Army National Cemeteries Program, U.S. Department of Defense,” http://veterans.house.gov/witness-testimony/ms-kathryn-condon-1; hhs-ps
From a facilities perspective, we must also complete ….delaying their wait time.

**The way that we treat out the dead is important, and cemeteries are the crucial site for symbolic exchange and social interaction with the dead**
Doris **Francis**, Museum of International Folk Art @ New Mexico, **2003**, “Cemeteries as cultural landscapes”, Mortality, Vol. 8, No. 2http://www.d.umn.edu/cla/faculty/jhamlin/4960/Lists%20for%20Graveyards/cultural%20landscapes.pdf; hhs-ab

This review calls attention to two classics which challenged me to grapple anew with fundamental questions: why do we ….for social continuity of a stable community during a period of socio-economic mobility and a decline in the role of the church. The cemetery reﬂects both

**Plan: The United States Department of Transportation should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure spending in the Arlington National Cemetery.**

__**Contention 3 is the Ceremony**__

**The signs of the 1ac are pushed to their absurd limit and this ceremony is a fatal strategy without meaning—and the fidelity to the rules of the game for no other purpose than they are the rule of the game kills the cult of meaning and subjectivity.**
**Though this might seem immoral we prefer to the strategy of identification with the absurdity of debate, overly highlighted cards, half-drunk critics, and its arbitrary chaotic impact… this fascination with evils is a way to show the presence of power so it can be exposed.**
**Baudrillard 1990**[Jean, French sociologist, philosopher, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. Fatal Strategies, Page 166-171]

In the order of highly conventional and … aesthetic judgment.

**The social is just a sharing of simulation—and so is debate, no one really believes the shit they say but the game is fun—in order to not replicate a culture of sameness it is necessary to assert a seductive strategy that remakes illusion in the arbitrary rules of the game.**
**The useless signs of the 1ac disappoint demands for meaning—this abuse of the sign in the 1ac is key to deconstructing the logic of subject.**
**Baudrillard 1990** [Jean, French sociologist, philosopher, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. Fatal Strategies, Page 50-53]

We have completely forgotten the form of … them and grasp them together in their inextricable anamorphosis.

**The 1AC may be drawing to a close but our ceremony isn’t --- By asserting the rules absent any meaning or ethics a strategy of seduction takes place that disrupts the logic of causality and history—this is a strategy of play that reclaims the fun in debate through the creating of a widely creative ceremony.**
**Baudrillard 1990** [Jean, French sociologist, philosopher, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. Fatal Strategies, Page 171-174]
Today we place the moral law above signs. … only a matter of appearances.
=== === 
==Round 3== 

==Round 4== 
Disabilities 1AC
Communities are defined by the narratives they use to distinguish between self and other. Sacred orders define themselves by a fixed transcendent idea of the human and seek to eradicate the profane other. Alternatively, holy communities seek self-transcendence through the affirmation of the dignity of others through justice and compassion.
Fasching and deChant 2001 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach, Pp. 10)

Human religiousness is … do not share my identity and my stories.

Holy communities are produced through an alienated theology, which rejects the pretension towards certainty in our own narratives, leaving us open to the transformative impact of the experiences of others. The apologetic theology of sacred orders is a methodology of domination. Its foreclosure of the possibility of truth in difference condemns us to an apocalyptic stalemate moving ever closer to self-destruction.
Fasching 1993 (Darrell J. Fasching is a Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 5-8)

The best way to describe the "… nuclear apocalypse that such a path risks.

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in accessible transportation infrastructure.

Current modes of transportation design reinforce the medical model of disability and result in forced social exclusion.
Ivonne Audirac, Florida State University, 5/16/2008 [“Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 2008, Sage Journals, http://jpl.sagepub.com/content/23/1/4.full.pdf+html]

Although influential transportation … 2000; Grieco 2003; Hine and Mitchell 2001; TCRP 1999).

The eugenic gaze cast by the status quo relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence
Hughes 2 (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)

The dominant framework for … at its worst translate into a politics of genocide.


As students participating in policy debates we have an obligation to put disability at the center of our discussion because what we debate about here says a lot about conduct on a larger scale – this is not a meta-theoretical quibble but central to change the way that disability is represented and conceived
Bérubé, 2003 (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506)

It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have …, and for the good of democracy, which is to say, for the good of all of us.

The plan is an affirmation of particularity and difference between those that are disabled and those that are not, which refuses sacred orders in the name of the possibility of a positive reading of interdependence. Arguments which assert the inevitability of the status quo are assertions to sustain the sacred order.
Fasching 1993 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 287-290)

In the Christian case, as I argued in Narrative Theology after … utopian possibilities of the human.

The demonic double which emerges through the logic of exclusion of whom we deem as disabled shuts off the possibility of transcendence and ensure ontological damnation.
Fasching 1993 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima,Pp. 92)

"Doubling," Lifton argued, "is the psychological … created by its self-deception.

Arguments, which sustain the exclusion restrains themselves to what is and ignore the possibilities of what ought to be. Rejecting such logic for the world of ought is necessary to reinvigorate ethical engagement.
Fasching 1993 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 132-133)

If ethics involves a mode of consciousness … present to the utopian possibilities of the future.

Divorcing governmental policies from ethics cedes political control to technicism. This magnifies doubling on a global scale and makes extinction desirable.
Fasching 1993 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 232-233)

These technological barbarians, says Neuhaus, "are … orders must be subordinated.

Put your util good arguments away—utilitarianism is fine under our framework of striving to achieve dignity. However, our ethics is necessary to determine the “greatest good for the greatest number.”
Fasching and deChant 2001 (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach, p. 21-22)

Modern philosophical forms of ethics have sought …. It is about David, the greatest King of ancient Israel (c.1000 BCE).

Default to our epistemology over the construction of hypothetical disad scenarios
Brian Massumi, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal, 2007, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/ v010/10.2massumi.html, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”

It is certain that there will be adjustments. … mode of being (a race for dear life).

Federal action is key to solve – state action won’t be able to start a movement due to lack of uniformity
Stephen L. Percy, professor School of Public and International Affairs, Ph.D., Indiana University A.B., Hamilton College, ‘Disability policy in the United States,’ 2002

The Americans with Disabilities Act abandoned the condition-of-… of comprehensive national civil rights legislation.


Federal action on equality rights is key – signaling and uniformity
Sally F. Goldfarb, Associate Professor of Law, Rutgers University school of law, Camden, 2002 (“The Supreme Court, the Violence Against Women Act, and the Use and Abuse of Fedralsim” 71 Fordham L. Rev. 57)

The existence of dialogue between …. 2 VAWA's civil rights remedy was a product of this tradition. 222



Repoliticizing transportation infrastructure shifts responsibility to the institutions that maintain exclusion and opens space to expose our complicity in ableist structures of knowledge
Koch, 2008 (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94)

Making my way slowly toward the geography building I … goal in transit planning.


Ignoring the state is politically disastrous --- only opposition to specific institutions can meaningfully challenge domination

Grossberg ’92 (Lawrence, Professor of Communication – U Illinois, We Gotta Get Out of This Place, p. 390-1)

But this would mean that the Left could not … minorities into a new majority..
d


Only the affirmative’s rejection of teleological narratives through the affirmation of difference in disability reinvigorates notions of disabled identity
Overboe 12 (Disability and Social Theory: New Developments and Directions edited by Dan Goodley, Bill Hughes, Lennard Davis, Palgrave Macmillan publishing, Jul 3, 2012 - 360 pages – theory impairment and personal singularities section written by Overboe)

As disabled people (and by extension the discipline of …. Addressing the question of resistance.









==Round 5== 

==Round 6== 

==Round 7==