[[toc]]
Sorry for not posting very much earlier.

=Affirmative (same in rounds 1, 4, 5, 7, and the runoff)= 
==1AC== 
===Plan=== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure for transportation to and from low-income areas in the United States by an amount equal to a substantial increase in its transportation infrastructure investment.==== 
===Other=== 
====__Contention one is the Other__==== 
====Classism in the US has manifested itself as cognitive and spatial __distancing__ from the poor==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lott, professor of psychology, 2</span> – Professor Emerita of Psychology and Women's Studies at the University of Rhode Island (Bernice, Ph.D. from UCLA, former Dean of the University College at the University of Rhode Island, former visiting scholar/professor at Brown University’s Center for Research and Teaching on Women, Stanford University’s Institute for Research on Women and Gender, the Department of Psychology in Waikato University, New Zealand, and the University of Hawaii at Manoa, February 2002, “Cognitive and Behavioral Distancing from the Poor,” //American Psychologist//, Volume 57, Number 2, pp. 100-110, http://homepage.psy.utexas.edu/homepage/Class/Psy350/Spivey/pdf/8.%20%20Cognitive%20Distancing.pdf)

This article is about classism in the United States and examines particularly responses to poor
AND
by the others, thus easing access by those who are like oneself.
====Increased investment is key to transportation access for low-income people==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LCEF 11</span>Leadership Conference Education Fund was established in 1969 to promote social justice goals (civilrights.org), “Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity” March, http://www.aapd.com/what-we-do/transportation/where-we-need-to-go.pdf
IV. The Road (or Bus or Bike) to Take: Transportation Policy
AND
more than geography; it must also be about accessibility and maximizing usability.
====The plan’s investment in transportation infrastructure facilitates travel, which is an encounter with __unpredictable others__ in new locations==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ankor, Ph.D. in tourism, 9</span> – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, //Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel//, pp. 172-175, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)

Section 3 Encountering Difference: The Offer in the Moment led to an account of
AND
other, I suggest, is integral to the travel and tourism experience.
====We have an infinite ethical obligation – __encountering__ the Other as __irreducible difference__ and acknowledging responsibility produces one’s own identity or subjectivity==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ankor 9</span> – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, //Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel//, pp. 132-134, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)

4.5  LEVINAS’ PHILOSOPHY OF THE ENCOUNTER¶ ‘The other is not
AND
to a response that does not condemn the other through assumptions of recognition.
====This obligation has to be __infinite__ and __unconditional__, not selfish==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hendley, professor of philosophy, 5</span> – Associate Professor of Philosophy at Birmingham-Southern College (Steven, 2005, “Autonomy and alterity: moral obligation in Sartre and Levinas,” from //Emmanuel Levinas Critical Assessments V2: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers// (ed. Claire Elise Katz and Lara Trout), pp. 137-138, p. Google Books)

This last point bears on the conditions of the realization and maintenance of a just
AND
of those whose concerns have always yet to be adequately taken into account.
====Our ethic is a “first philosophy” that __precedes__ and __refutes__ rule systems like utilitarianism, which reduce the Other to a calculable entity – ethics should come from experience, not knowledge==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Introna, professor of ethics, 3</span> – Professor of Organization, Technology, and Ethics at Lancaster University (Lucas, 2003, “Workplace Surveillance ‘is’ Unethical and Unfair,” //Surveillance & Society//, Volume 1, Number 2, pp. 210-216, http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/download/3354/3317)

For Levinas the ‘force’, or rather the gravity, of ethics lies in
AND
). The force of the Other is fragile, not secure at all.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utilitarianism can be twisted for any end</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Simon, professor of philosophy, 9</span>** – Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Texas at El Paso (Jules, Scientific Director of the Center for Science, Technology, Ethics, and Policy (CSTEP), 2009, “Chapter 9: Making Ethical Sense of //Useless Suffering// with Levinas,” from //The Double Binds of Ethics after the Holocaust: Salvaging the Fragments//, ed. Jules Simon, p. 133, http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1003&context=julesimon)

Throughout the body of his work, Levinas contests the dominant modern Western paradigm.
AND
justifying the suffering of the few for the sake of the general good.
====Our framework interpretation is that we will defend the implementation of the plan in the context of our ethic – ethical framing conditions all political practice – this recognition solves conflict==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dauphinee, professor of politics, 9</span> – Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at York University (Elizabeth, “Emmanuel Levinas,” from //Critical Theorists and International Relations//, edited by Jenny Edkins (Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth University) and Nick Vaughan-Williams (Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Exeter), pp. 241-242)

Writing about the war in Bosnia, David Campbell argues that Levinasian thought is ‘
AND
, at reconciliation and refugee return (Campbell 1998a: 219–40).
===Control=== 
====__Contention two is control__==== 
====The __opposite__ of __the recognition of infinite alterity__ is __a controlling__ attempt to break down and understand everything – this leads to impersonal domination and tyranny==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wild, professor of philosophy, 80</span> – Professor of Philosophy at Yale University (John, Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, professor and chair of philosophy at Northwestern University, 2/29/80, Introduction to //Totality and Infinity: An Essay on Exteriority//, book written by Emmanuel Levinas, Springer, pp. 15-19, http://m.friendfeed-media.com/48926eed43741a4e07a8241b7ee87bd55b666514)

Hegel and his followers have also seen the accidental biases and eccentricities that make the
AND
as right, and history itself is not the final judge of history.
====Negotiating to find __ideal political consensus__ prevents the antagonism necessary to affirm progress and rights==== 
van Munster, lecturer in politics, 9 – Lecturer in International Politics and Assistant
AND
International Relations at the University of Exeter), pp. 269-273)

Rancière’s view on equality is at the core of his conception of politics: ‘
AND
thus two sides of the same coin: the suppression of real democracy.
====This logic of control and refusal of our finitude causes the destruction of the Earth through endless consumption and machination==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Joronen, Ph.D. in geography, 11</span> – Ph.D. in Human Geography from the University of Turku (Mikko, Postdoctoral Researcher and head of the Development Studies programme in the Department of Geography and Geology at the University of Turku, //Antipode//, Vol. 43, No. 4, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe,” Pg. 1127-1154)

In spite of the revolutionary sense of “power-free letting-be”,
AND
and domination of nature, capable of calling the living earth a home.
====The root causes of war are power, heroism, threat construction, and fear – this taints their security logic – our ethical focus on the other solves conflict==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Molloy, Ph.D. in sociology, 99</span> – Ph.D. from the Department of Sociology and Equity Studies in Education at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education of the University of Toronto (Patricia, teaches in the Department of Communication Studies at Wilfrid Laurier University in Waterloo, 1999, “Desiring security/securing desire: (Re)re‐thinking alterity in security discourse,” //Cultural Values//, Volume 3, Number 3, pp. 304-328, p. Taylor and Francis)

The Will to Kill: War as Desire¶ Desire, as Shapiro points out
AND
. For in the infinite waters of responsibility, there are no pirates.
===Uncertainty=== 
====__Contention three is uncertainty__==== 
====Linear policy predictions are impossible==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sa, professor of policy, 4</span>– Associate Professor of Public Administration and Policy at Dong-U College in South Korea (Deug-Whan, received his DPA from the Korea University, 2004, “Chaos, Uncertainty, and Policy Choice: Utilizing the Adaptive Model,” //International Review of Public Administration//, Volume 8, Number 2, pp. 119-128, http://www.kapa21.or.kr/data/data_download.php?did=1473)

In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either
AND
model provides decision-makers enough confidence to naturally accept uncertainty and chaos.
====Great-power war is implausible==== 
Deudney and Ikenberry, professors of politics, 9 – *Professor of Political Science
AND
, Number 1, pp. 77-93, p. ProQuest)

Fortunately, this new conventional wisdom about autocratic revival is as much an exaggeration of
AND
-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.
====Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction==== 
Robock, professor of climatology, 10 – Professor II (Distinguished Professor) of
AND
, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)

While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is
AND
consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.

=Negative= 
===1NC CIR DA=== 
**Immigration reform’s passing now—Senate support will spill over to the House**
**Metzler 4-25** (Rebekah, US News and World Report, 4-25-13, "5 Things the 'Gang of 8' Did to Give Immigration Reform a Shot," http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2013/04/25/5-things-the-gang-of-eight-did-to-give-immigration-reform-a-shot)

Two key senators … naïve, political or unworkable.

**The fiscal climate guarantees that Republicans will backlash**
**Linden, Managing Director for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, 4/10** (Michael, Compromised: The President’s Budget Is Another Attempt to Reach a Fiscal Deal, Center for American Progress, April 10, 2013, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/budget/news/2013/04/10/60117/compromised-the-presidents-budget-is-another-attempt-to-reach-a-fiscal-deal/]], njw)

President Barack Obama’s … bipartisan budget plans.

**Killing compromises damages Obama’s PC—that’s key**
**Cassidy, staff writer, 4/19** (John, also a contributor to the New York Review of Books and comments on economics for the BBC, The End of the Honeymoon for Obama: What’s Next, The New Yorker, April 19, 2013, [[http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/johncassidy/2013/04/barack-obama-second-term-boston-gun-control-whats-next.html]], njw)

At least for now, … his best option.

**Comprehensive immigration reform is key to the economy and highly skilled workers** 
**Farrell 12/13/12** (Chris, a contributing editor for Bloomberg Businessweek. From 1986-97, he was on the magazine's staff, as a corporate finance staff and department editor and then as an economics editor. Farrell wrote Right on the Money: Taking Control of Your Personal Finances and Deflation: What Happens When Prices Fall? Among Farrell's many awards are a National Magazine Award, two Loeb Awards, and the Edward R. Murrow Award. Farrell is a graduate of the London School of Economics and Stanford University. “Obama’s Next Act: Immigration Reform” [[http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-12-13/obamas-next-act-immigration-reform]])

Washington won’t get … that’s economically efficient.

**Economic collapse causes great power war.**
**Royal 2010** (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, pg. 213-215)

Less intuitive is ...deserves more attention.


===Round Reports=== 
====Round 2: Neg vs. Brophy MS (Ablenormativity) AMDG==== 
1AC: Ableism
1NC: Disability Aesthetics K, Framework, Cap K
2NR: Framework

====Round 3: Neg vs. Lakeland PS (Port Security)==== 
1AC: Terror (Nuclear, Biological)
1NC: T-Military, T-Substantially, Immigration Reform DA (Economy Impact), Burke K, Decoupling CP (specific to port security)
2NR: DA, Case

====Round 6: Neg vs. San Dieguito HW (Mass Transit -- New Aff)==== 
1AC: Mass Transit (Exclusion, Advocacy)
1NC: T-Substantially, T-Vehicles, Framework, Consult Communities CP, Commissions CP, Immigration Reform DA (Economy Impact), Case
2NR: Commissions CP, DA


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]