[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==Aff vs. CK McClatchy HS== 
===Graffiti 1AC=== 

== == 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Planes, trains, and __[[#|automobiles]]__; sea, sky, and land: transportation infrastructure comes in many shapes and styles. From the highway overpass which houses the cities forgotten to the underground rail station where billion dollar busy bodies race alongside __[[#|single mothers]]__ to catch a train going anywhere, infrastructure surrounds our narratives, memories, and lateral movement. Transportation infrastructure is not merely a physical space of utility which gets us from point A to point B. Beyond material utility, transportation infrastructure is a cultural artifice, constructed and invested in by culture while simultaneously creating it. These positive feedback loops are common. The New York Subway becomes a setting for movies and __[[#|television]]__ shows which influence culture which changes the perception the subway as well as the real-life experiences of persons who ride it. This in turn changes the television shows and movies that help shape culture. One form of __[[#|investment]]__ in transportation infrastructure is graffiti - the literal painting of literal space to create representational and mental change. Names declaring space owned by various groups, political images a la Banksey, scribbles and the unintelligible, all invest in the transportation space to transform it from a material object limited material value into a cultural artifact. Eventually any sign will be __[[#|power]]__ washed clean, painted over, and lost for time, the transportation space temporarily reclaimed by the abject materiality of infrastructure, but once that wall is painted white we have only lost one node and replaced it with the possibility of something new altogether. In these competing physical spaces, difference clashes over limited wall space and oppositional identities, but in that clash a space is reclaimed for politics, and for the agency of the individual</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fraser and Spalding ‘11,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Benjamin Fraser, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor of Spanish. DEPARTMENT OF HISPANIC __[[#|STUDIES]]__ · __[[#|SCHOOL]]__ OF LANGUAGES, CULTURES & WORLD AFFAIRS · THE __[[#|COLLEGE]]__ OF CHARLESTON. MANAGING EDITOR,. Arizona Journal of Hispanic Cultural __[[#|Studies]]__, Steven d. Spalding, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bachelor of Arts, Connecticut __[[#|College]]__, 1993 Master of Arts, Université de Paris VIII-Vincennes Saint-Denis, 1995 Doctor of Philosophy, __[[#|University]]__ of Michigan, 2003, “Trains Culture and __[[#|Mobility]]__,” pages 38-39)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">These examples taken from recent cultural history and popular culture depict the appeal graffiti has in French political fantasy, and help explain its welcome into a cultural heritage of political expression. however, the way graffiti is written-- and read-- in these examples, runs the risk of circumscribing graffiti's scope to that of political action and the pursuit of specific political ends. In Deleuze and Guattari's critique of capitalism, elaborated in the two volumes of //Capitalism and __[[#|Schizophrenia]]__,// and in Virilio's various inquiries into the __[[#|logistics]]__ of speed and __[[#|mobility]]__ in modern political history, there are elements of a typology of agency that can better take into account the meaning of graffiti in the city. In //A Thousand Plateaus,// Deleuze and Guattari put forth a set of concepts to describe systems-- or "regimes"-- of signs, various types of forces that operate within them, as well as different ways in which such forces operate. Two pairs of concepts recur in their abstract typology of orders that are of particular interest here, as they offer a new way of framing graffiti that can resist, for a time at least, its reduction to political binaries. In the section of //A Thousand Plateaus// entitled "1227" Treatise on Nomadology--The War Machine," Deleuze and Guattari posit the existence of the nomad, a figure of pure movement, and of the war machine, which they describe as sharing many properties of the nomad (351-453). Both are defined in terms of their fundamental relation to absolute movement (although Deleuze and Guattari come to the conclusion that "only nomads have absolute movment, in other words, speed," 381); both are external to forces of control, such as apparatuses of state, state logics, state sciences: "It is not enough to affirm that the war machine is external to the apparatus. It is necessary to reach the point of conceiving the war machine as itself a pure form of exteriority, whereas the State apparatus constitutes the form of interiority [...] according to which we are in the habit of thinking" (354). As the nomad and the war machine share an exteriority to state forms of order, both are related to the same side of the second pair of concepts, namely "smooth space" and "striated space." Deleuze and Guattari refer to the differences between the games of go and chess as an analogy for the opposition between smooth and striated (353). In their perpetual work of coding urban space for maximum efficiency, order, and the exercise of control, apparatuses of state push out smooth space in favor of striated. Meanwhile, by dint of their exteriority and through their privileged relation to mobility and speed, the nomad and the nomadic war machine are able to disrupt that striation, and turn an environment defined by its utilitarian purposes into a mere support for something else (381). To cast the graffiti artist as a contemporary form of Deleuze and Guattari's nomad may be the best way to problematize the question of agency and distinguish between those artists who are motivated solely by the breaking of taboos or social rebellion and those who are driven by a nomad-like exteriority, who graff on their own terms and for their own terms. In their definition of war machines, Deleuze and Guattari assert that they can be appropriated and instrumentalized by the state apparatuses; this is how war machines can transform military institutions (355). So, too, do graffiti artists risk such instrumentalization: by terming their activity as part of a war against the police for instance, they risk accelerating the implementation of further modes of control. Inasmuch as graffiti is most often associated with youth rebellion, rhetoric of "war" is evidenced on all sides (see Yakhlef and Doriath, 40). In turn, such appropiation by states discourses of control would ensure that graffiti art never be really seen as anything other than the sign of an enemy. Viewed as a nomadic form of representation, graffiti stands a better chance of asseriting its exteriority and re-injecting difference into the striated urban environment. Considered from this perspective, the graffiti found on the side of Parisian subway and commuter trains becomes especially potent: commuter trains with elaborate lettering, abstract shapes and labyrinthine forms running their entire length become something other than merely utilitarian. They present the eye with excess, spillover, jarring colors and highly ramified designs. By capturing the gaze for a single extra moment, the outside logic of graffiti can successfully have asserted itself. The exteriority of graffiti is already very present in the language of French graffiti artists; Bando, for example, at the end of //Writers, 1983-2003: 20 ans de graffiti a Paris//, insists that graffiti "concerns only those who make it; others shouldn't even look." A nomadic practice, graffiti must not be reduced to punctual political goals or predictable Oedipal triangles of rebellion, but rather must constantly redefine the parameters of smooth space within its own realm of representation. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Currently, railroads and trains are used not for the opportunity they bring to unite individuals but rather as a means for capital accumulation. Social planners seek to produce the most efficient railways possible in a deliberate attempt to create structure amidst the chaos of the many actions of the world. Train graffiti is in opposition to this form of rational planning. It is a moment in time that gives power to those cast aside by the normative structures of politics. Graffiti is a strategy for empowerment without totalizing control.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fraser and Spalding ‘11,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Benjamin Fraser, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor of Spanish. DEPARTMENT OF HISPANIC STUDIES · SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES, CULTURES & WORLD AFFAIRS · THE COLLEGE OF CHARLESTON. MANAGING EDITOR,. Arizona Journal of </span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9pt;">Hispanic Cultural Studies, Steven d. Spalding, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bachelor of Arts, Connecticut College, 1993 Master of Arts, Université de Paris VIII-Vincennes Saint-Denis, 1995 Doctor of Philosophy, University of Michigan, 2003, “Trains Culture and Mobility,” page 48)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Even if it is a planned activity by a group, train graffiti is opposed to the rational planning or urban design. It is sporadic, rhizomatic, born to disappear. In the case of train graffiti, as Borchard (2005) notes, this disappearance is double, through moving and through erasure (338). Such graffiti reappropriates a commercial space (Borchard, 337 and disrupts the process of canonization working against deliberate attempts to capitalize on the predictability of tourist experience. (Although in some cases train graffiti has been manufactured as a part of model trains; see Borchard.) Whereas wall graffiti can be used to establish or reflect a send of place, reinforcing a group identity and notions of territoriality, train graffiti turns this process of territorialization on its ear. The nature of the process of viewing train graffiti works against the cult of the artist that can, to a certain degree, only form around art that is stationary, art that allows itself to be quarantined, installed, immobilized according to the spatial logic of the city. Train graffiti is less deliberate, less expected, more fleeting. In this sense it expresses a sympathy with the chaotic, enigmatic, and unpredictable movement of urban life that is taken as the raw material for capitalists and urban developers, who, as Harvery notes, seek to produce "rational physical and social landscapes for capital accumulation" (Urban Experience, 29). Thus the mobile nature of train graffiti is evidence for the philosophical claim-- here explicit, there implicit in the "mobility turn" in criticism-- that movement is prior to immobility and, moreover, that it is the fleeting complexity of enigma rather than the ordered design of rational landscapes that subtends the intellectual approach to space.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graffiti functions as a unique discourse of anti-structure- a step away from the restrictive and controlling nature of the state apparatus. Over the years, graffiti has provided excluded individuals with a way to affirm their identities and resist authoritarian control of public and private space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bartolomeo 1, </span>**(Bradley J. Bartolomeo, B.S. (Psychology) Additional Major in Anthropology, “Cement or Canvas: Aerosol Art & The Changing Face of Graffiti in the 21st Century,” http://www.graffiti.org/faq/graffiti-is-part-of-us.html#Graffiti_as_a_form_of_Public_and_Political_Resistance)

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A visually salient, though often artistic and creative manner of resistance, graffiti inherently opposes political domination and authoritative control of public space. Phillips candidly remarks, "Because of these destructive tendencies, graffiti says "fuck you" to society, even if it doesn't exactly say "fuck you" — though many graffiti, of course, do" (Phillips 1999:23). She continues with this thought: Whether or not it says so in so many words, the fuck you message is implicit in the use of graffiti as communication. The medium itself implies alienation, discontentment, marginality, repression, resentment, rebellion: no matter what it says, graffiti always implies a "fuck you". Though addressing the larger society in this contemptuous manner may be a secondary or even tertiary element of the graffiti writer's agenda, this element always lurks in the background of every graffito on every wall. (Phillips 1999:23) This type of rebellion and resentment, shared between the graffiti artists and their work, is exactly the type of message that society tries to suffocate. The blatant disregard for public space is interpreted by the public as a type of "fuck you" statement; internalized, the message of graffiti is seen as a personal attack, rather than a more general resistance to a system which leaves the fate of public space in the hands of a minority within our society. Thus, it is obvious that graffiti inherently promotes a message of rebellion and resistance, a type of resistance that promotes an anarchist ideology in many layers. Reisner and Wechsler (1974) also maintain a position on graffiti that regards it as the voice of resistance. In this passage, it is obvious that the expressive medium of graffiti is an opposition to authoritative and aristocratic domination. Graffiti are the voice of the common man. We are used to taking our history from aristocrats and statesmen and their paid scribes. But through graffiti we discover evidence of another version of history, characterized by oppression and opposition to the official point of view. Topics too sensitive, too bigoted, too outrageous for the official version are the natural province. (Reisner & Wechsler 1974:vi) Along these same lines, other anthropologists have explored the nature of a resistance movement in society. Graffiti, with its seemingly global appeal and use, has been a form of political resistance for many years. It is important here to note, however, that though the basic message of graffiti remains the same, in that it is a commentary on the private control and use of public space, it is also necessary to indicate a second message of graffiti. Through the act of graffiti, a second message may be promoted, which is central to its nature; the content of each graffiti piece is unique to the context and circumstances from which every individual writes. Thus, graffiti is not only a form of political resistance, but also, remains a way by which people may assume a sense of cohesiveness, rallying around shared ideology. Often, graffiti has been used as a type of political resistance in third-world nations; anonymous expressive acts of political rhetoric, these graffiti are a cultural commentary on the likes and dislikes of social policy. Stephen Leavitt relates this cultural phenomenon in his essay, "Cargo Beliefs and Religious Experience". He maintains the understanding that people occupy themselves with a particular behavior, action, or object in the face of political domination; in the case of Papa New Guinea, cargo cults have emerged as a convention by which to maintain identity and prestige in the face of political oppression. Similar to the way in which graffiti creates identity, the Papa New Guineans have used cargo as a material way by which to comment on social ideology and, in turn, create a shared system of beliefs through which people may have an identity. Leavitt remarks about the emergence of cargo cults as a response to political domination here: The Europeans who arrived did not share the same view of how relationships are built. They had control over extremely attractive material goods, but they refused to enter into proper exchange relations with the local people. Instead, they instituted colonial control and acted as superiors. Some anthropologists have argued, then, that the Papa New Guinean preoccupation with cargo is a way of rebuilding a sense of independence and prestige in the face of colonial rule. (Spradley & McCurdy 1997:338) This example clearly illustrates how people may react to cultural domination and colonial rule. Graffiti, therefore, is a cultural response to opposing ideologies; the graffiti artist "underdog", however, must convey dissatisfaction in a passive and harmless, but, resistant manner. This raises the question as to whether or not the political opposition conveyed through graffiti is just an American form of resistance to the dominant culture? Rather, the graffiti movement has become a global form of expression that often highlights the political unrest felt by certain members within a culture. In Paraguay, for example, graffiti has been a critical medium by which political communication occurs. Under authoritarian rule, Paraguay has suffered extreme times of censorship and thus, the people have registered their anti-sentiments in public displays of art — namely graffiti. Lyman Chaffee (1990) has investigated the extent to which graffiti plays a part in Paraguay's political culture. Though his findings were geared towards the impact that graffiti has on Paraguay's political power struggle, he did argue that graffiti, in essence, is a popular form of resistance among youth culture. Chaffee explores why graffiti has gained popularity and the innate ability to promote cohesiveness when he remarks: Graffiti writing is one of the easiest and most efficient ways for individuals and opposing groups to register political dissidence, express social alienation, propagate anti-system ideas, and establish an alternative collective memory. Groups can use graffiti to push their agendas or generally to make their presence felt, for it is an extremely easy means of communicating ideas and establishing a collective identity with the masses by putting a government on notice that anti-system sentiments exist with a definite historical memory. Given by the circumstances of doctoral regimes, graffiti communication can be, if recognized by groups and if organized sufficiently, an important medium for breaking the dominant control and censorship which authoritarian governments exercise. (Chaffee 1990:127) Graffiti, as a type of discourse, therefore, may achieve many goals. The "in your face" method of presentation, boldly projects the animosity and/or neglect that a particular group of people may feel. It is possible for a number of people to join forces in their struggle and statement without knowing each other personally. Through this graffiti, writers have created an identity; grounded in resistance to a dominant system, artists share graffiti as an expressive form by which to communicate social unrest. The "walls" upon which graffiti is written remain a public forum by which many individuals are both reaffirmed of their anti-structural sentiments as well as given an opportunity to voice their opinion. Lila Abu-Lughod develops this idea of a "Discourse of Anti-Structure" in her book about Bedouin women title //Veiled Sentiments//. Abu-Lughod discusses many different types of discourse in Bedouin society, each of these means of expression serve a different function. Lughod generally defines discourse as a formalized type of communication in which emotional sentiments are conveyed through an expressive medium. Negative sentiments that challenge the "status quo" and the core ethics of a society are called "Discourses of Anti-Structure". In reference to the Bedouin emphasis placed on autonomy and honor, Lughod explains that //ginnahwas// (short love poems) are used to express feelings of love and desire. However, as she candidly remarks, discourses of anti-structure draw upon a commonly shared negative sentiment about the social world — the attachment to other people through this discourse eases, as well as, extinguishes any physical desire to act upon it. Therefore, the ginnahwas are a form of expression by which men in the Bedouin society may convey an emotion that is not socially accepted; if a man expresses love for a woman, he both dishonors his family, as well as, himself and consequently loses his autonomy. Then how does thin man maintain a positive social identity? How does act upon these feelings without disgracing himself? And similarly, since graffiti stands as an expression of emotion, how do these participants do so collectively and in public without actively threatening their own name or the dominant culture which within they have established an identity? Graffiti may be understood as a discourse of anti-structure; a passive resistance to social complacency and the elitist dictation of public space, graffiti challenges the core ethics to our culture without actively posing a threat to its dominant ideology. Abu-Lughod refers to Michael Meeker's work with poetry in the Bedouin community; his findings illustrated the undeniable link between poetry and its purpose. Lughod quotes Meeker's claim here: Bedouin words, far more than Bedouin actions, were the center of an effort to work out the various possibilities and impossibilities of uncertain political relationships. These words reveal systematic strategies for putting together a kind of political order in spite of uncertain political relationships. From the forms of a Bedouin voice, one can begin to understand with some precision the shape of a Bedouin experience. Relevant to American society, graffiti serves a similar purpose as Bedouin poetry; the writing on the wall is like poetry, sentiments about a cultural system are put forth in society and through their passive nature, implicitly question societal norms. This type of passive resistance gives a minority within a culture a voice. However, I am hard pressed to say that the act of doing graffiti or reciting Bedouin poetry is not pleasurable in its own right. Many anthropologists have also commented on this type of pleasure associated with writing; though the pleasure may explored psychologically as a "risk" behavior, it is more important now to just mention that the pleasure does in fact exist. Anthropologically speaking, the excitement that the writers experience through doing graffiti is a characteristic that brings to the surface a common theme in our social world. The behavior of graffiti artists is representative of the dissatisfaction with a state of existence; it may be said that graffiti artists enjoy their trade due to its rebellious nature, as well as, its inherent ability to communicate a message of distaste. Ian Maxwell highlights this appeal here: Graffiti is, of course, largely illegal. Its outlaw status constitutes no small part of its appeal: stories of close calls with the Graffiti Task Force ("the Graft Squad", or "the Transits" as they are known by writers) abound. Writers recount with evident pleasure the tingle of illicit excitement as a piece is put up, late at night, in a suburban train yard, the unavoidable rattle of the metal mixing ball inside the spraycan and the tell-tale hissing of the application threatening to give them away. They proudly display old scars from climbing barbed wire fences, crawling through drains. (Maxwell 1997:50) It is clear that there exists a link between the act of doing graffiti and our social world; the pleasure inherent in conscious illegal behavior may be a way by which we can understand a part of youth culture. It seems as though graffiti may be a reaction that promotes a shared ideology of contempt, resistance, and political dissatisfaction. Understanding that this graffiti is not the act of one individual, but rather, is seen as a movement and matter of representation and identity will help society, as well as, anthropologists engage the idea that graffiti is only one type of discourse by which these negative sentiments are expressed.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graffiti is not armchair politics – it is a powerful force against the hegemonic practices of the status quo which marginalize and drowns out minority voices.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giller 97</span>** (Sarah Giller, Brown University, Graffiti: Incscribing Transgression on the Urban Landscape, </span>[[http://www.graffiti.org/faq/giller.html]])

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The power of the artistic image is irrefutable. In being denied access to the sources of artistic production and distribution, marginalized groups have been systematically denied the power of self-expression the image provides. In search of the identity and empowerment refused to them as people of color, African-American and Puerto Rican youth growing up in New York City in the 1970s began "writing" graffiti on the only areas accessible to them - the walls and subways that defined their urban experience. By transgressing dominant notions of aesthetics, commodity, and property, (not surprising since age and race denied them access to it), graffiti becomes a successful a-hegemonic strategy used by a marginalized culture to establish a voice. Marginalized groups have been systematically denied access to the mainstream art world and their establishments. As Guillermo Gómez-Peña suggests, museums, galleries, auction houses are "monocultural." White curators, administrators, and patrons make up a cultural elite that "bases its selections on arbitrary, Eurocentric standards of "taste" and "quality"- code words of racial indifference and exclusion....These taste makers, in turn reflect the interests of the ruling caste of cultural institutions. The boards of art museums, publishers of art magazines and books, and owners of galleries rarely hire people of color in policy-making positions. Thus, the task of cultural interpretation . . . is usually relegated to people of European decent, as if their perspective was universal." Pervading the mind set even greater, Henry Louis Gates, Jr. suggests the white elite fundamentally doubt blacks have the ability to create classics. These Eurocentric standards similarly inform the canon and academia. Biases arise as art by artists of color are systematically excluded from art history lectures, museum studies classes, and Ph. D. programs. In overlooking the contributions of these artists while concentrating on a value system not their own, art history becomes irrelevant to students of color. Consequently, it is no surprise that whites outnumber blacks and Latinos in terms of interest in high art.' A survey conducted by the NEA in 1982 suggests that out of those questioned, 10% of blacks, 18% of Latinos, and 24% of whites attended an art exhibition in the last twelve months. Perhaps more striking, 89% of Latinos surveyed and 84% of African-Americans surveyed had never taken an art appreciation class (in comparison to 79% of whites.) Thus "a privileging of the culture, history, and values of bourgeois, White men" informs museums, galleries, academies, learning institutions, critics, and cultural interpreters. Culture is political. As a result of the elitism of high culture, minorities are denied access to cultural production and distribution. Communities of color are not economically, politically, or culturally empowered. Lack of sufficient economic resources prevents marginalized communities from developing their own production and patronage networks. Art is dependent upon "the kind of time and money that has rarely been available to African Americans" and other marginalized groups. The same NEA survey discovered that cost is a determining factor in museum attendance for Blacks and Latinos (In contrast, time and distance are the main factors preventing Whites from visiting museums). With the promotion, presentation, and purchasing power in the hands of a culturally homogenous patronage circle, artists of color are at a disadvantage for finding significant support for work that reflects their sensibilities and values. Lacking the power to shape cultural norms and forms, aspiring artists of color "must deculturize [themselves]" in order to be accepted into the mainstream art world. Equally important, lack of financial power and cultural influence means reduced access to the mechanisms for the dispersal of knowledge and new forms. Graffiti artist Duke laments that when he was growing up "[he] wanted to take art and art classes but they never taught [him and his classmates] about who's out there. It would have made such a big difference." The exclusionary, political nature of the art world has prevented the inclusion of a variety of voices in the production and distribution of culture. The politics of culture, especially its element of exclusion/ inclusion, affect identity. Cultural politics produces subjectivity, creates meaning, determines truth and history, and distributes knowledge. The means by which these products are then understood and used profoundly impacts power relations in society. **The result of an elite controlling the formation of cultural norms, meanings, and knowledge is that subordinated groups come to be defined in relation to that dominating voice. In an exclusionary system, the experience of living as an "other" is not one of choice**. "Otherness" defines what one is, constrains what one does. Power relations determine identity. Consequently, the act of defining one's own identity is an act of power for those with it, or an act of empowerment for those without it. For marginalized groups, art can serve as a source of identity and empowerment. We have already suggested that social and economic factors traditionally prevented these groups from having a voice in the cultural-political establishment. Art, however, is a form of communication. Communication works by establishing connections between transmitters (speakers) and receivers. Since reception is an act of speech affirmation, to speak and to be heard are empowering experiences. Thus, **art is able to give a voice, to empower those who have been silenced**. In its ability to empower, art becomes a powerful way to stimulate social change and to formulate identity. Whether positive or negative images, art has the ability to provoke an emotional response. Art serves as "a catalyst,..helping to heal a society that is alienated from its life forces." With the power to affect social norms comes the power to create and legitimize new subjectivities, new definitions, new values, new histories, and new memories. Once this power is reached, identity can be self-determined and self-defined. For the victims of marginalization, respect and positive identity are crucial. The significance of art's power lies in its ability to allow the silenced voices to proclaim " Look! We are here! We exist! Remember us!" Clearly, art is both powerful and a means of empowering**. In the 1970s, the development of graffiti art gave New York City's African-American and Puerto Rican urban youth the power to transform urban spaces into sites of identity and signs of empowerment**. **Graffiti is the best response provided to a people denied a response.**" While communities like the South Bronx and Harlem were still suffering from the blight of urban renewal, the politics of the Reagan administration, which undermined much support for the urban poor, and the increasingly insular high-art world further hindered accessibility to economic and cultural resources. Jack Pelsinger, who founded Nation of Graffiti Artists (NOGA), suggests "everybody has the need to be important" and regards artistic expression "as the quickest way . . . to feel important and be important to others." In the face of subjugation, self-determined identity becomes a symbol of status. Thus, considering the power of the image, graffiti becomes a means of asserting identity, visibility, and power in a social context in which these youth were previously ignored. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Josh and I affirm </span>****<span style="font-size: 14pt;">graffiti as investment in transportation infrastructure </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specifically, affirm the choices within your agency. Slave morality is founded on an obsession with transcendence, focusing on something far removed from our powers as a means of escape from the status quo, creating an ontological condition of life-denial. Graffiti is possible for all of us, and historically has been a means of communication and empowerment for even the most oppressed peoples. Affirming this agency is key to unlock the potential of life</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Phil, Phil Smith is a UK based artist, performer and teacher, specialising in performance related to walking. At present he is engaged in research at the University of Plymouth (UK) on the effectiveness of performance and performative interventions in touristic and heritage spaces."Tourists/Terrorists – Useful Ambiguities in a Search for Models", Rhizome magazine)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A discussion about models of 'ideal', resistant, small group organisation is generally pre-empted by an argument about intentions. What is the group for? [2] The principle seems obvious – there must be an 'end' of some kind that drives and determines the means, however that relation works itself out. [3] Yet, so often, the histories of group organisation, whether philanthropic, political or recreational, are of empirical specificities turning out to be far more rich and potent than mere means; that it is in their details that the larger structures of what they become first emerge: the Provisional IRA become custodians of a peace agreement, the crusading Knights Hospitaller of St John metamorphose into first-aiders at sports events. [4] This potential for convenient, utilitarian tactics to turn suddenly (and often stay turned) towards aqualitatively new strategic end is sometimes spotted early on and snuffed out. In the 1920s a rag-tag, barely coherent orrery of proletarian UK-based Marxist philosophers, already beginning to establish their own eccentric, vernacular tradition, was halted by their recruitment to the Communist Party of Great Britain. In the Second World War, the first manifestation of a UK 'Home Guard' (an official civilian defence force raised to fight Nazi invasion), was dismantled; initially trained by Spanish anarchist miners, refugees from Franco, it was developing an insurgent, revolutionary structure among its base of early members. [5] So, rather than establish an 'end', and then seek a model for the group structure most likely to achieve it, I propose to present here the details of various existing and historic small group practices with resistant, covert or disruptive qualities, flagging up different fragments, slivers, signatures, eccentricities and tics, with the intention of whirling these around the meandering practice of the International Lettriste/situationist dérive (or drift), or at least around an 'ideal' version of the practices of contemporary dériviste groups, some modelled precisely and others imprecisely on the dérive. (My account of some of these is here.) [6] The context for this speculative modelling is an ongoing series of experiments with various forms of exploratory and 'disrupted' walking: these began with drifts, but have moved on to subversions of the guided tour, the making and placing of détourned signage, collective pilgrimages interweaving multiple-practices and improvisations and the distributions of guides, handbooks, maps and toolkits as provocations for others to make their own resistant walking. [7] While I have attempted elsewhere - online and in Mythogeography (2010, Axminster, UK: Triarchy Press) – to document these experiments and those conducted by others and to tentatively build a critical scaffold around them, it is the historical dérive that remains the dominant example of the 'ideal' collective walk (despite other models from urban exploration, deep mapping, live art and pedestrian activism). By attaching a plethora of variegated practices and other models of small group intervention to this 'ideal' I hope, here, to shift the dérive a little from the centre of the orrery of these multiplicitous practices; to set in motion other bodies of attraction. [8] Given the benefit to these small group practices of the deferral of ends – including the deferral of even discussing ends for as long as possible - a key dynamic of such 'drifting groups without destinations' can be understood through a creative system identified (in stark corporeal terms well suited to an immersed walking group) by the artist Matthew Barney. In this system 'Situation' (no relation) is the raw energy and drive of undirected intentionality, 'Condition' is the direction and digestion of this energy, and 'Production' is its oral/anal expression in the form of excretions of art, political actions, etc.Barney's creative method is to disrupt this sequence, deferring 'Production' again and again and repeatedly folding 'Condition' back into 'Situation', whirling the latter's energy again and again in a violent short circuiting through the funnel of 'Condition' until the organic structure of the process cannot sustain itself as its accelerates, at which similarly, a drifting group (with neither end nor destination) bounces back and forth between different theoretical positions in the course of a single drift – between (a more or less understood) Debord, Bachelard and Baudrillard, for example – drawing, opportunistically, from different theories as they are required; contesting the dominance of visuality one moment, drawing pseudo-evolutionary allusions or tracing a string of voids the next. Ideally (because, for the sake of this argument, they are an 'ideal'), such a group would extend their versatile inconsistency until it becomes an unsustainable contradiction; when unexpected, unplannable, inconvenient praxes are hurled off. [10] What Barney's model seeks to do is pre-empt reproduction, to disrupt the tendency of 'creative' or disruptive action to follow a course of least resistance to a product, to find its way too quickly, efficiently and conveniently to an outcome (when production takes on the quality of an organism's excretion). [11] Among drifting groups certain productive scenarios recur, such as the play of childhood, attraction to ruins and the morbid, the seeking out of the 'hidden', the identification of occulted and occult iconographies or ironical and accidental signage, and trespass. While these may constitute the parts of a resistant walk, because they are familiar products of many drifts they can also pre-empt its destinationless engagement by a premature gratification (a powerful tool of the Spectacle) through the manifestation of what might already have been expected (or at least predicted). The result can be an immersion in a milieu (occult, anecdotal, historiographical); momentum is lost and a subtle bounding of space is imposed or adopted. [12] However, by deferring the gratification (for example, by disrupting an action to maintain it in simultaneous development with others) territorialisation can be suspended to allow more and more layering of activities, one upon another: play upon vandalism upon mapping upon sculpting trash upon booby-trapping upon poetry upon dance… until the group itself cannot cope with the multiplicity of its own processes and, in that crisis, can retreat to a milieu or crash on to something or somewhere that is unexpected, unplanned and (this is the key political and reproducible aspect) uncontainable. [13] This is not unlike the strategy of communes that is proposed by The Invisible Committee as a part of social insurrection: it's not about possessing territory. Rather it's a matter of increasing the density of the communes, of circulation, and of solidarities to the point that the territory becomes unreadable, opaque to all authority… Every practice brings a territory into existence – a dealing territory, or a hunting territory; a territory of child's play, of lovers… or flaneurs. The rule is simple: the more territories there are superimposed on a given zone, the more circulation there is between them, the harder it will be for power to get a handle on them… (The Invisible Committee, 2009:108) and the greater the likelihood that outcomes are unplannable and uncontainable, not only for those who seek to control them, but (more importantly for a situationist politics) for those who seek to create them, for, according to a situationist critique of the Spectacle, it is by such creators (who are the subjects of this essay, and I include my own culpability) that some of the most effective policing of geographical power is carried out.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are not a starting point because we are always already cast into the middle. We must begin politics with the question: what can we do now? History is always written from a sedimentary point of view, but in reality life is dynamic and ever changing. So too must be our politics. What we need more than ever are ruptures against the dominating modes of politics which characterize the status quo. Play with ideology, refuse calcification, and write with slogans.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari 1980</span> [//A Thousand Plateaus// Pg. 23-25]

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">History is always written from the sedentary point of view and in the name of a unitary State apparatus, at least a possible one, even when the topic is nomads. What is lacking is a Nomadology, the opposite of a history. There are rare successes in this also, for example, on the subject of the Children's Crusades: Marcel Schwob's book multiplies narratives like so many plateaus with variable numbers of dimensions. Then there is Andrzejewski's book, //Les partes du paradis// (The gates of paradise), composed of a single uninterrupted sentence; a flow of children; a flow of walking with pauses, straggling, and forward rushes; the semiotic flow of the confessions of all the children who go up to the old monk at the head of the procession to make their declarations; a flow of desire and sexuality, each child having left out of love and more or less directly led by the dark posthumous pederastic desire of the count of Vendome; all this with circles of convergence. What is important is not whether the flows are "One or multiple"--we're past that point: there is a collective assemblage of enunciation, a machinic assemblage of desire, one inside the other and both plugged into an immense outside that is a multiplicity in any case. A more recent example is Armand Farrachi's book on the Fourth Crusade, //La dislocation//, in which the sentences space themselves out and disperse, or else </span><span style="color: #006400; font-size: 9pt;">{Page 24}</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">jostle together and coexist, and in which the letters, the typography begin to dance as the crusade grows more delirious. </span><span style="color: #8b0000; font-size: 9pt;">[23]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> These are models of nomadic and rhizomatic writing. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Writing weds a war machine and lines of flight, abandoning the strata, segmentarities, sedentarity, the State apparatus.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> But why is a model still necessary? Aren't these books still "images" of the Crusades? Don't they still retain a unity, in Schwob's case a pivotal unity, in Farrachi's an aborted unity, and in the most beautiful example, //Les partes du paradis//, the unity of the funereal count? Is there a need for a more profound nomadism than that of the Crusades, a nomadism or true nomads, or of those who no longer even move or imitate anything? </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The nomadism of those who only assemble</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (//agencent//). How can the book find an adequate outside with which to assemble in heterogeneity, rather than a world to reproduce? </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The cultural book is necessarily a tracing: already a tracing of itself, a tracing of the previous book by the same author, a tracing of other books however different they may be, an endless tracing of established concepts and words, a tracing of the world present, past, and future.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Even the anticultural book may still be burdened by too heavy a cultural load: but it will use it actively, for forgetting instead of remembering, for underdevelopment instead of progress toward development, in nomadism rather than sedentarity, to make a map instead of a tracing. RHIZOMATICS = POP ANALYSIS, even if the people have other things to do besides read it, even if the blocks of academic culture or pseudoscientificity in it are still too painful or ponderous. For science would go completely mad if left to its own devices. Look at mathematics: it's not a science, it's a monster slang, it's nomadic. Even in the realm of theory, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">especially in the realm of theory, any precarious and pragmatic framework is better than tracing concepts, with their breaks and progress changing nothing. Imperceptible rupture, not signifying break. The nomads invented a war machine in opposition to the State apparatus. History has never comprehended nomadism, the book has never comprehended the outside. The State as the model for the book and for thought has a long history: logos, the philosopher-king, the transcendence of the Idea, the interiority of the concept, the republic of minds, the court of reason, the functionaries of thought, man as legislator and subject. The State's pretension to be a world order, and to root man. The war machine's relation to an outside is not another "model"; it is an assemblage that makes thought itself nomadic, and the book a working part in every mobile machine, a stem for a rhizome</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Kleist and Kafka against Goethe). </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Write to the nth power, the n - 1 power, write with slogans: Make rhizomes, not roots, never plant! Don't sow, grow offshoots! Don't be one or multiple, be multiplicities! Run lines, never plot a point! Speed turns the point into a line! [24] Be quick, even when standing still! Line of chance, line {Page 25} of hips, line of flight. Don't bring out the General in you! Don't have just ideas, just have an idea (Godard). Have short-term ideas. Make maps, not photos or drawings</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Be the Pink Panther and your loves will be like the wasp and the orchid, the cat and the baboon. As they say about old man river: He don't plant 'tatos Don't plant cotton Them that plants them is soon forgotten But old man river he just keeps rollin' along </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">A rhizome has no beginning or end; it is always in the middle, between things, interbeing, intermezzo. The tree is filiation, but the rhizome is alliance</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, uniquely alliance. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The tree imposes the verb "to be," but the fabric of the rhizome is the conjunction, "and . . . and . . . and . . ." This conjunction carries enough force to shake and uproot the verb "to be." Where are you going? Where are you coming from? What are you heading for? These are totally useless questions. Making a clean slate, starting or beginning again from ground zero, seeking a beginning or a foundation--all imply a false conception of voyage and movement</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (a conception that is methodical, pedagogical, initiatory, symbolic. . .). </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">But </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Kleist, Lenz, and Buchner have </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">another way of traveling and moving: proceeding from the middle, through the middle, coming and going rather than starting and finishing.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [25] American literature, and already English literature, manifest this rhizomatic direction to an even greater extent; they know how to </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">move between things, establish a logic of the AND, overthrow ontology, do away with foundations, nullify endings and beginnings</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. They know how to practice pragmatics. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The middle is by no means an average; on the contrary, it is where things pick up speed. Between things does not designate a localizable relation going from one thing to the other and back again, but a perpendicular direction, a transversal movement that sweeps one and the other away, a stream without beginning or end that undermines its banks and picks up speed in the middle</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>



=Round 2- Neg vs. Hendrickson BS (Death aff)= 

==Social Death/First Priority 1NC== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Their understanding of death as a theoretical experience is oblivious to the lived experience of millions of people struggling to survive every day. While the 1AC may be an interesting theoretical position it is counter productive to a politics of the dispossessed. </span>**
**__S__****__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">TARK</span>__**, C<span style="font-size: 9pt;">HAIR OF </span>L<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AW</span>, W<span style="font-size: 9pt;">EST </span>V<span style="font-size: 9pt;">IRGINIA </span>C<span style="font-size: 9pt;">OLLEGE OF </span>L<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AW</span>; P<span style="font-size: 9pt;">ROFESSOR OF </span>L<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AW</span>, H<span style="font-size: 9pt;">OFSTRA</span>, **__2009__** (B<span style="font-size: 9pt;">ARBARA</span>, B<span style="font-size: 9pt;">RIGHAM </span>Y<span style="font-size: 9pt;">OUNG </span>U<span style="font-size: 9pt;">NIVERSITY </span>L<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AW </span>R<span style="font-size: 9pt;">EVIEW</span>, 2009 B.Y.U.L. R<span style="font-size: 9pt;">EV</span>. 381)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Theory is problematic in this context for the same reasons that theory is always problematic. It sacrifices the messy complexity of reality for the clarity of abstraction. John Rawls' A Theory of Justice 48 has been criticized, for example, because Rawls begins with the assumption that fair decisions about how to structure society can only be made behind a "veil of ignorance." That is, those making the decisions should not know their place in society and how they personally will be affected by their decisions. Rather, the decisions should be fair enough that they will be satisfactory, however one is situated. Rawls' decision makers are disembodied and disconnected. They literally have no physical reality; they are not old, or hungry, or pregnant. They are not part of any family, community, or social network. As a corollary, theory inevitably omits or distorts the experience of some, while reifying that of others. 50At the same time, theory is even more problematic in the context of global poverty than it is in others because of both the limitations of liberal theory 51 and the political reality of liberal hegemony in an international system of sovereign states. Theory is also problematic [*391] here because of its applications, the uses to which theory has been put. Human rights are grounded in liberal theory, but so was colonialism. 52 Indeed, some argue that the grand theory of the Enlightenment is oblivious to its own "will to power." 53 The Enlightenment made "man" rather than God the center of the universe. But its purportedly universal, objective, rational subject is in fact a Western white man. The Enlightenment's promised Utopia, similarly, is the universalization of Western culture. 54 Thus, liberal theory has been used to justify the colonialism and neocolonialism that, some suggest, is responsible for the ongoing impoverishment of the global South.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Life and death are not universally reversible, rather there is an axiom or a sliding scale that determines who may access the wellspring of life – we must ask the question, “what becomes of the slave?” - for some people life is a daily struggle to escape the gratuitous violence of the modern world and for some people death is written into their DNA by the history of the plantation and the marking of their skin. The death inscribed by anti-blackness is purely negative and irretrievable.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">Farley ’05 </span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Anthony Paul, Professor of Law @ Boston College, “Perfecting Slavery”, 1/27/2005, [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp%20-|http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp -]] SG)</span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 9pt;">What is to be done? Two hundred years ago, when the slaves in Haiti rose up, they, of necessity, burned everything: They burned San Domingo flat so that at the end of the war it was a charred desert. Why do you burn everything? asked a French officer of a prisoner. We have a right to burn what we cultivate because a man has a right to dispose of his own labour, was the reply of this unknown anarchist. The slaves burned everything because everything was against them. Everything was against the slaves, the entire order that it was their lot to follow, the entire order in which they were positioned as worse than senseless things, every plantation, everything. “Leave nothing white behind you,” said Toussaint to those dedicated to the end of white-over black. “God gave Noah the rainbow sign. No more water, the fire next time.” The slaves burned everything, yes, but, unfortunately, they only burned everything in Haiti. Theirs was the greatest and most successful revolution in the history of the world but the failure of their fire to cross the waters was the great tragedy of the nineteenth century. At the dawn of the twentieth century, W.E.B. Du Bois wrote, “The colorline belts the world.” Du Bois said that the problem of the twentieth century was the problem of the colorline. The problem, now, at the dawn of the twenty-first century is the problem of the colorline. The colorline continues to belt the world. Indeed, the slave power that is the United States now threatens an entire world with the death that it has become and so the slaves of yesterday, today, and tomorrow, those with nothing but their chains to lose, must, if they would be free, if they would escape slavery, win the entire world. We begin as children. We are called and we become our response to the call. Slaves are not called. What becomes of them? What becomes of the broken-hearted? The slaves are divided souls, they are brokenhearted, the slaves are split asunder by what they are called upon to become. The slaves are called upon to become objects but objecthood is not a calling. The slave, then, during its loneliest loneliness, is divided from itself. This is schizophrenia. The slaves are not called, or, rather, the slaves are called to not be. The slaves are called unfree but this the living can never be and so the slaves burst apart and die. The slaves begin as death, not as children, and death is not a beginning but an end. There is no progress and no exit from the undiscovered country of the slave, or so it seems. We are trained to think through a progress narrative, a grand narrative, the grandest narrative, that takes us up from slavery. There is no up from slavery. The progress from slavery to the end of history is the progress from white-over-black to white-over-black to white-overblack. The progress of slavery runs in the opposite direction of the past present future timeline. The slave only becomes the perfect slave at the end of the timeline, only under conditions of total juridical freedom. It is only under conditions of freedom, of bourgeois legality, that the slave can perfect itself as a slave by </span>//<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRoman,Italic',serif; font-size: 9pt;">freely choosing </span>//<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 9pt;">to bow down before its master. The slave perfects itself as a slave by offering a prayer for equal rights. The system of marks is a plantation. The system of property is a plantation. The system of law is a plantation. These plantations, all part of the same system, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRoman,Italic',serif; font-size: 9pt;">hierarchy</span>//<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 9pt;">, produce white-overblack, white-over-black only, and that continually. The slave perfects itself as a slave through its prayers for equal rights. The plantation system will not commit suicide and the slave, as stated above, has knowing non-knowledge of this fact. The slave finds its way back from the undiscovered country only by burning down every plantation. When the slave prays for equal rights it makes the free choice to be dead, and it makes the free choice to not be. Education is the call. We are called to be and then we become something. We become that which we make of ourselves. We follow the call, we pursue a calling. Freedom is the only calling—it alone contains all possible directions, all of the choices that may later blossom into the fullness of our lives. We can only be free. Slavery is death. How do slaves die? Slaves are not born, they are made. The slave must be trained to be that which the living cannot be. The only thing that the living are not free to be is dead. The slave must be trained to follow the call that is not a call. The slave must be trained to pursue the calling that is not a calling. The slave must be trained to objecthood. The slave must become death. Slavery is white-over-black. White-over-black is death. White-over-black, death, then, is what the slave must become to pursue its calling that is not a calling.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This process of social death-making comes from a history of material dispossession and violence that is intimately tied to the structures of colonialism – their silence on the issue of colonial violence is not accidental, it’s a characteristic of the privilege that we have inherited in the academy – as white scholars we must find ways to responsibly deal with our social location, and spewing a bunch of post-modern bullshit about death is the best to way to obscure that responsibility. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ward </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Churchill</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">19</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">96</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">I’ll debunk some of this nonsense in a moment, but first I want to take up the posture of self-proclaimed leftist radicals in the same connection. And I’ll do so on the basis of principle, because justice is supposed to matter more to progressives than to rightwing hacks. Let me say that the pervasive and near-total silence of the Left in this connection has been quite illuminating. Non-Indian activists, with only a handful of exceptions, persistently plead that they can’t really take a coherent position on the matter of Indian land rights because “unfortunately,” they’re “not really conversant with the issues” (as if these were tremendously complex). Meanwhile, they do virtually nothing, generation after generation, to inform themselves on the topic of who actually owns the ground they’re standing on. The record can be played only so many times before it wears out and becomes just another variation of “hear no evil, see no evil.” At this point, it doesn’t take Albert Einstein to figure out that the Left doesn’t know much about such things because it’s never wanted to know, or that this is so because it’s always had its own plans for utilizing land it has no more right to than does the status quo it claims to oppose. The usual technique for explaining this away has always been a sort of pro forma acknowledgement that Indian land rights are of course “really important stuff” (yawn), but that one” really doesn’t have a lot of time to get into it (I’ll buy your book, though, and keep it on my shelf, even if I never read it). Reason? Well, one is just “overwhelmingly preoccupied” with working on “other important issues” (meaning, what they consider to be more important issues). Typically enumerated are sexism, racism, homophobia, class inequities, militarism, the environment, or some combination of these. It’s a pretty good evasion, all in all. Certainly, there’s no denying any of these issues their due; they are all important, obviously so. But more important than the question of land rights? There are some serious problems of primacy and priority imbedded in the orthodox script. To frame things clearly in this regard, lets hypothesize for a moment that all of the various non-Indian movements concentrating on each of these issues were suddenly successful in accomplishing their objectives . Lets imagine that the United States as a whole were somehow transformed into an entity defined by the parity of its race, class, and gender relations, its embrace of unrestricted sexual preference, its rejection of militarism in all forms, and its abiding concern with environmental protection (I know, I know, this is a sheer impossibility, but that’s my point). When all is said and done, the society resulting from this scenario is still, first and foremost, a colonialist society, an imperialist society in the most fundamental sense possible with all that this implies. This is true because the scenario does nothing at all to address the fact that whatever is happening happens on someone else’s land, not only without their consent, but through an adamant disregard for their rights to the land. Hence, all it means is that the immigrant or invading population has rearranged its affairs in such a way as to make itself more comfortable at the continuing expense of indigenous people. The colonial equation remains intact and may even be reinforced by a greater degree of participation, and vested interest in maintenance of the colonial order among the settler population at large. The dynamic here is not very different from that evident in the American Revolution of the late 18th century, is it? And we all know very well where that led, don’t we? Should we therefore begin to refer to socialist imperialism, feminist imperialism, gay and lesbian imperialism, environmental imperialism, African American, and la Raza imperialism? I would hope not. I would hope this is all just a matter of confusion, of muddled priorities among people who really do mean well and who’d like to do better. If so, then all that is necessary to correct the situation is a basic rethinking of what must be done., and in what order. Here, I’d advance the straightforward premise that the land rights of “First Americans” should serve as a first priority for everyone seriously committed to accomplishing positive change in North America. But before I suggest everyone jump off and adopt this priority, I suppose it’s only fair that I interrogate the converse of the proposition: if making things like class inequity and sexism the preeminent focus of progressive action in North America inevitably perpetuates the internal colonial structure of the United States, does the reverse hold true? I’ll state unequivocally that it does not. There is no indication whatsoever that a restoration of indigenous sovereignty in Indian Country would foster class stratification anywhere, least of all in Indian Country. In fact, all indications are that when left to their own devices, indigenous peoples have consistently organized their societies in the most class-free manners. Look to the example of the Haudenosaunee (Six Nations Iroquois Confederacy). Look to the Muscogee (Creek) Confederacy. Look to the confederations of the Yaqui and the Lakota, and those pursued and nearly perfected by Pontiac and Tecumseh. They represent the very essence of enlightened egalitarianism and democracy. Every imagined example to the contrary brought forth by even the most arcane anthropologist can be readily offset by a couple of dozen other illustrations along the lines of those I just mentioned. Would sexism be perpetuated? Ask one of the Haudenosaunee clan mothers, who continue to assert political leadership in their societies through the present day. Ask Wilma Mankiller, current head of the Cherokee nation , a people that traditionally led by what were called “Beloved Women.” Ask a Lakota woman—or man, for that matter—about who it was that owned all real property in traditional society, and what that meant in terms of parity in gender relations. Ask a traditional Navajo grandmother about her social and political role among her people. Women in most traditional native societies not only enjoyed political, social, and economic parity with men, they often held a preponderance of power in one or more of these spheres. Homophobia? Homosexuals of both genders were (and in many settings still are) deeply revered as special or extraordinary, and therefore spiritually significant, within most indigenous North American cultures. The extent to which these realities do not now pertain in native societies is exactly the extent to which Indians have been subordinated to the mores of the invading, dominating culture. Insofar as restoration of Indian land rights is tied directly to the reconstitution of traditional indigenous social, political, and economic modes, you can see where this leads: the relations of sex and sexuality accord rather well with the aspirations of feminist and gay rights activism. How about a restoration of native land rights precipitating some sort of “environmental holocaust”? Let’s get at least a little bit real here. If you’re not addicted to the fabrications of Smithsonian anthropologists about how Indians lived, or George Weurthner’s Eurosupremacist Earth First! Fantasies about how we beat all the wooly mammoths and mastodons and saber-toothed cats to death with sticks, then this question isn’t even on the board. I know it’s become fashionable among Washington Post editorialists to make snide references to native people “strewing refuse in their wake” as they “wandered nomadically about the “prehistoric” North American landscape. What is that supposed to imply? That we, who were mostly “sedentary agriculturalists” in any event. Were dropping plastic and aluminum cans as we went? Like I said, lets get real. Read the accounts of early European arrival, despite the fact that it had been occupied by 15 or 20 million people enjoying a remarkably high standard of living for nobody knows how long: 40,000 years? 50,000 years? Longer? Now contrast that reality to what’s been done to this continent over the past couple of hundred years by the culture Weurthner, the Smithsonian, and the Post represent, and you tell me about environmental devastation. That leaves militarism and racism. Taking the last first, there really is no indication of racism in traditional Indian societies. To the contrary, the record reveals that Indians habitually intermarried between groups, and frequently adopted both children and adults from other groups. This occurred in pre-contact times between Indians, and the practice was broadened to include those of both African and European origin—and ultimately Asian origin as well—once contact occurred. Those who were naturalized by marriage or adoption were considered members of the group, pure and simple. This was always the Indian view. The Europeans and subsequent Euroamerican settlers viewed things rather differently, however, and foisted off the notion that Indian identity should be determined primarily by “blood quantum,” an outright eugenics code similar to those developed in places like Nazi Germany and apartheid South Africa. Now that’s a racist construction if there ever was one. Unfortunately, a lot of Indians have been conned into buying into this anti-Indian absurdity, and that’s something to be overcome. But there’s also solid indication that quite a number of native people continue to strongly resist such things as the quantum system. As to militarism, no one will deny that Indians fought wars among themselves both before and after the European invasion began. Probably half of all indigenous peoples in North America maintained permanent warrior societies. This could perhaps be reasonably construed as “militarism,” but not, I think, with the sense the term conveys within the European/Euro-American tradition. There were never, so far as anyone can demonstrate,, wars of annihilation fought in this hemisphere prior to the Columbian arrival, none. In fact, it seems that it was a more or less firm principle of indigenous warfare not to kill, the object being to demonstrate personal bravery, something that could be done only against a live opponent. There’s no honor to be had in killing another person, because a dead person can’t hurt you. There’s no risk. This is not to say that nobody ever died or was seriously injured in the fighting. They were, just as they are in full contact contemporary sports like football and boxing. Actually, these kinds of Euro-American games are what I would take to be the closest modern parallels to traditional inter-Indian warfare. For Indians, it was a way of burning excess testosterone out of young males, and not much more. So, militarism in the way the term is used today is as alien to native tradition as smallpox and atomic bombs. Not only is it perfectly reasonable to assert that a restoration of Indian control over unceded lands within the United States would do nothing to perpetuate such problems as sexism and classism, but the reconstitution of indigenous societies this would entail stands to free the affected portions of North America from such maladies altogether. Moreover, it can be said that the process should have a tangible impact in terms of diminishing such oppressions elsewhere. The principles is this: sexism, racism, and all the rest arose here as a concomitant to the emergence and consolidation of the Eurocentric nation-state form of sociopolitical and economic organization. Everything the state does, everything it can do, is entirely contingent on its maintaining its internal cohesion, a cohesion signified above all by its pretended territorial integrity, its ongoing domination of Indian Country. Given this, it seems obvious that the literal dismemberment of the nation-state inherent to Indian land recovery correspondingly reduces the ability of the state to sustain the imposition of objectionable relations within itself It follows that realization of indigenous land rights serves to undermine or destroy the ability of the status quo to continue imposing a racist, sexist, classist, homophobic, militaristic order**.**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The political force that fuels the co-constitutive processes of lack and becoming in America are shaped by the fundamental gratuitous violence of original accumulation of Black flesh in the Middle Passage – the pieces of identity that becoming identifies as transformational are in fact the shattered fragments of black life strewn across the blood-soaked waters of the Atlantic. There are stable markers of what it means to be capital-B Black in the age of modernity in America that is intimately tied to stigmata and policing that freezes the Black ontologically – they cannot become, for they are locked into the prison cells of history and shackled mentally to the floor of the Slave ship</span>**
**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">Farley ’09 </span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Anthony Paul Farley 2009Shattered: Afterword for defining race, a joint symposium of the Albany Law Review and Albany Journal of Science and Technology pg. 1055-1057 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">I will use the term original accumulation to discuss the traumatic moment that seems always to have occurred just before the curtains of history were raised, and I will use the term primal scene of accumulation to designate the always tentative nature of our attempts to reconstruct that time-beforetime. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">When a form of life is shattered the fragments come together in the form of the shattering force itself, not the form of life that was shattered. It is as if the fragments, each feeling in itself the lack of a former, albeit unrecognized, unity, are drawn to each other, but only in a way that preserves a certain lack. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The lack is the shattering force itself. And the shattering is a certainty. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The lack becomes the free-floating principle of reunification, and thus all attempts at reunification fail, in perpetuity. The lack about which I write is not a simple one. The lack is in fact the world-destroying force, the missing piece of all our reconstructions. The lack is the missing piece and world-destroying force that we are. It is always what we are becoming. Because we are that world-shattering force, the force of the original accumulation, whatever institutional film we wrap around that which we mistake for ourselves is doomed by the deadly contents that we ourselves are, both in ourselves and for ourselves, albeit without conscious awareness. Time, vanquished by the original accumulation, now reappears as a never-ending puzzle we feel compelled to complete. Our puzzle cannot be completed, for what it depicts is the end of the world that has already ended. The puzzle that we feel mysteriously compelled to put back together is not whatever was before the original accumulation, it is instead the world-shattering force of that original accumulation. If it ever seems as if we have found the final piece of the institutional puzzle that is the achievement of social, industrial and perpetual peace, and it often seems so, then we can be as sure as the original accumulation, as certain as the grave we are already in, that the seemingly final piece will shatter everything; and it will do so with all the eternity of the Middle Passage, the Black Atlantic, the undiscovered country, our source and final resting place, the navel of our contemplations. The repetitions are not repetitions of a form of life, they are repetitions of the force that opposed and shattered that form of life; they are repetitions of the original accumulation, of the total extinction event at the beginning of what is modern. The fragments come together in the form of the force that shattered the unity of their former life. That shattering force was the force of the original accumulation, and it shatters them again.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Thus it is that we never cross the event-horizon of the original accumulation. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The invisible hand of the market and the shattering force of race making genocide were and are one and the same.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> The market is the ghostly return of genocide. The world of the market, of capitalism, looks like life, “idyllic,” but it is not, not for the have-nots whose not having is the secret source of all capital accumulation. Capitalism is the repetition and intensification of the racial genocide of its origin. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Repetition and intensification of the great death event of the world is not life; it is death, only death, and that continually. She comes in colors, like November</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Today, 14 November 2008, we have charted, with great accuracy, several of the various terrains of the original accumulation’s repetition. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">We are the unfed.6 We are the executed.7 We are the banished.8 We are the unrepresented.9 We are the speculum10 in which the other rainbow appears11; the rainbow of the other scene12, the rainbow that promises nothing but the eternal duration of the death we are unable to acknowledge having died.13 We are the despised.14The colorline, the border of the undiscovered country, runs through our bodies. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> We even chase each other, connecting the dots like children, if children had the unseeing eyes of corpses15, and we do this to ourselves, for them. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">We connect the stigmata, our stigmata, policing these bodies that are not ours, for them, for they know not what they do, and neither do we.16 The undiscovered country is the only one we can call ours. And it is a nation we must leave. There is a fear we dare not name, and so we misname it “race” and misunderstand its cruelties with ever more frenetic misnomers. Like so many scattered leaves, it means nothing, or so the scattering makes it seem. What is to be done? Repetition is a refusal of memory. Refused memories cannot be worked through, and without that working through we cannot leave the undiscovered country.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The alternative </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">is to vote neg to reject 1AC – debate is a method of pedagogy </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">and to pursue indigenous land return as a first priority. This act of impossible realism solves the case—Colonization is the root cause of oppression, and exploitation. Only a return to an indigenous politics can remedy the ills of colonialism. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ward </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Churchill</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">19</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">96</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in Communications from Sangamon State, //From A Native Son// pgs 85-90) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenous land claims, especially in the United States, is whether they are “realistic.” The answer, of course is, “No, they aren’t.” Further, no form of decolonization has ever been realistic when viewed within the construct of a colonialist paradigm. It wasn’t realistic at the time to expect George Washington’s rag-tag militia to defeat the British military during the American Revolution. Just ask the British. It wasn’t realistic, as the French could tell you, that the Vietnamese should be able to defeat U.S.-backed France in 1954, or that the Algerians would shortly be able to follow in their footsteps. Surely, it wasn’t reasonable to predict that Fidel Castro’s pitiful handful of guerillas would overcome Batista’s regime in Cuba, another U.S. client, after only a few years in the mountains. And the Sandinistas, to be sure, had no prayer of attaining victory over Somoza 20 years later. Henry Kissinger, among others, knew that for a fact. The point is that in each case, in order to begin their struggles at all, anti-colonial fighters around the world have had to abandon orthodox realism in favor of what they knew to be right. To paraphrase Bendit, they accepted as their agenda, a redefinition of reality in terms deemed quite impossible within the conventional wisdom of their oppressors. And in each case, they succeeded in their immediate quest for liberation. The fact that all but one (Cuba) of the examples used subsequently turned out to hold colonizing pretensions of its own does not alter the truth of this—or alter the appropriateness of their efforts to decolonize themselves—in the least. It simply means that decolonization has yet to run its course, that much remains to be done. The battles waged by native nations in North America to free themselves, and the lands upon which they depend for ongoing existence as discernible peoples, from the grip of U.S. (and Canadian) internal colonialism are plainly part of this process of liberation. Given that their very survival depends upon their perseverance in the face of all apparent odds, American Indians have no real alternative but to carry on. They must struggle, and where there is struggle here is always hope. Moreover, the unrealistic or “romantic” dimensions of our aspiration to quite literally dismantle the territorial corpus of the U.S. state begin to erode when one considers that federal domination of Native North America is utterly contingent upon maintenance of a perceived confluence of interests between prevailing governmental/corporate elites and common non-Indian citizens. Herein lies the prospect of long-term success. It is entirely possibly that the consensus of opinion concerning non-Indian “rights” to exploit the land and resources of indigenous nations can be eroded, and that large numbers of non-Indians will join in the struggle to decolonize Native North America. Few non-Indians wish to identify with or defend the naziesque characteristics of US history. To the contrary most seek to deny it in rather vociferous fashion. All things being equal, they are uncomfortable with many of the resulting attributes of federal postures and actively oppose one or more of these, so long as such politics do not intrude into a certain range of closely guarded self-interests. This is where the crunch comes in the realm of Indian rights issues. Most non-Indians (of all races and ethnicities, and both genders) have been indoctrinated to believe the officially contrived notion that, in the event “the Indians get their land back,” or even if the extent of present federal domination is relaxed, native people will do unto their occupiers exactly as has been done to them; mass dispossession and eviction of non-Indians, especially Euro-Americans is expected to ensue. Hence even progressives who are most eloquently inclined to condemn US imperialism abroad and/or the functions of racism and sexism at home tend to deliver a blank stare or profess open “disinterest” when indigenous land rights are mentioned. Instead of attempting to come to grips with this most fundamental of all issues the more sophisticated among them seek to divert discussions into “higher priority” or “more important” topics like “issues of class and gender equality” in which “justice” becomes synonymous with a redistribution of power and loot deriving from the occupation of Native North America even while occupation continues. Sometimes, Indians are even slated to receive “their fair share” in the division of spoils accruing from expropriation of their resources. Always, such things are couched in terms of some “greater good” than decolonizing the .6 percent of the U.S. population which is indigenous. Some Marxist and environmentalist groups have taken the argument so far as to deny that Indians possess any rights distinguishable from those of their conquerors. AIM leader Russell Means snapped the picture into sharp focus when he observed n 1987 that: so-called progressives in the United States claiming that Indians are obligated to give up their rights because a much larger group of non-Indians “need” their resources is exactly the same as Ronald Reagan and Elliot Abrams asserting that the rights of 250 million North Americans outweigh the rights of a couple million Nicaraguans (continues). Leaving aside the pronounced and pervasive hypocrisy permeating these positions, which add up to a phenomenon elsewhere described as “settler state colonialism,” the fact is that the specter driving even most radical non-Indians into lockstep with the federal government on questions of native land rights is largely illusory. The alternative reality posed by native liberation struggles is actually much different: While government propagandists are wont to trumpet—as they did during the Maine and Black Hills land disputes of the 1970s—that an Indian win would mean individual non-Indian property owners losing everything, the native position has always been the exact opposite. Overwhelmingly, the lands sought for actual recovery have been governmentally and corporately held. Eviction of small land owners has been pursued only in instances where they have banded together—as they have during certain of the Iroquois claims cases—to prevent Indians from recovering any land at all, and to otherwise deny native rights. Official sources contend this is inconsistent with the fact that all non-Indian title to any portion of North America could be called into question. Once “the dike is breached,” they argue, it’s just a matter of time before “everybody has to start swimming back to Europe, or Africa or wherever.” Although there is considerable technical accuracy to admissions that all non-Indian title to North America is illegitimate, Indians have by and large indicated they would be content to honor the cession agreements entered into by their ancestors, even though the United States has long since defaulted. This would leave somewhere close to two-thirds of the continental United States in non-Indian hands, with the real rather than pretended consent of native people. The remaining one-third, the areas delineated in Map II to which the United States never acquired title at all would be recovered by its rightful owners. The government holds that even at that there is no longer sufficient land available for unceded lands, or their equivalent, to be returned. In fact, the government itself still directly controls more than one-third of the total U.S. land area, about 770 million acres. Each of the states also “owns” large tracts, totaling about 78 million acres. It is thus quite possible—and always has been—for all native claims to be met in full without the loss to non-Indians of a single acre of privately held land. When it is considered that 250 million-odd acres of the “privately” held total are now in the hands of major corporate entities, the real dimension of the “threat” to small land holders (or more accurately, lack of it) stands revealed. Government spokespersons have pointed out that the disposition of public lands does not always conform to treaty areas. While this is true, it in no way precludes some process of negotiated land exchange wherein the boundaries of indigenous nations are redrawn by mutual consent to an exact, or at least a much closer conformity. All that is needed is an honest, open, and binding forum—such as a new bilateral treaty process—with which to proceed. In fact, numerous native peoples have, for a long time, repeatedly and in a variety of ways, expressed a desire to participate in just such a process. Nonetheless, it is argued, there will still be at least some non-Indians “trapped” within such restored areas. Actually, they would not be trapped at all. The federally imposed genetic criteria of “Indian –ness” discussed elsewhere in this book notwithstanding, indigenous nations have the same rights as any other to define citizenry by allegiance (naturalization) rather than by race. Non-Indians could apply for citizenship, or for some form of landed alien status which would allow them to retain their property until they die. In the event they could not reconcile themselves to living under any jurisdiction other than that of the United States, they would obviously have the right to leace, and they should have the right to compensation from their own government (which got them into the mess in the first place). Finally, and one suspects this is the real crux of things from the government/corporate perspective, any such restoration of land and attendant sovereign prerogatives to native nations would result in a truly massive loss of “domestic” resources to the United States, thereby impairing the country’s economic and military capacities (see “Radioactive Colonialism” essay for details). For everyone who queued up to wave flags and tie on yellow ribbons during the United States’ recent imperial adventure in the Persian Gulf, this prospect may induce a certain psychic trauma. But, for progressives at least, it should be precisely the point. When you think about these issues in this way, the great mass of non-Indians in North America really have much to gain and almost nothing to lose, from the success of native people in struggles to reclaim the land which is rightfully ours. The tangible diminishment of US material power which is integral to our victories in this sphere stands to pave the way for realization of most other agendas from anti-imperialism to environmentalism, from African American liberation to feminism, from gay rights to the ending of class privilege – pursued by progressive on this continent. Conversely, succeeding with any or even all of these other agendas would still represent an inherently oppressive situation in their realization is contingent upon an ongoing occupation of Native North America without the consent of Indian people. Any North American revolution which failed to free indigenous territory from non-Indian domination would be simply a continuation of colonialism in another form. Regardless of the angle from which you view the matter, the liberation of Native North America, liberation of the land first and foremost, is the key to fundamental and positive social changes of many other sorts. One thing they say, leads to another. The question has always been, of course, which “thing” is to the first in the sequence. A preliminary formulation for those serious about achieving radical change in the United States might be “First Priority to First Americans” Put another way this would mean, “US out of Indian Country.” Inevitably, the logic leads to what we’ve all been so desperately seeking: The United States – at least what we’ve come to know it – out of North America altogether. From there it can be permanently banished from the planet. In its stead, surely we can join hands to create something new and infinitely better. That’s our vision of “impossible realism.” Isn’t it time we all worked on attaining it? </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In this specific instance we must attain to the unique situation of identity as it applies to Native American communities. Sandra Grande tells us “American Indians are not like other subjugated groups struggling to define their place within the larger democratic project. Specifically, they do not seek greater “inclusion”; rather, they are engaged in a perpetual struggle to have their legal and moral claims to sovereignty recognized.” More specifically, Native American communities must navigate specific, stable, and concrete markers of identity such as federal recognition and land rights before they can even approach the question of embracing and affirming the 1ac’s position. As such, any theory of identity including that of the affirmative that fails to deal with the unique situation of Native Americans – the struggle to gain //sovereignty// over their very identities and cultures – is at best horribly incomplete and at worst a whitestream reality that reinforces capitalist encroachment upon indigenous culture.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">GRANDE 4</span>** (Sandy, assoc prof @ UConn, “Red Pedagogy: Native American Social and Political Thought” pp. 91-123)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The above indicators position American Indians in a wholly unique and paradoxical relationship to the United States. They also illuminate the inherent contradictions of modern American Indian existence: the paradox of having to prove “authenticity” to gain legitimacy as a “recognized” tribe, while simultaneously having to negotiate a postmodern world in which all claims to authenticity are dismissed as essentialist (if not racist). This reality not only conscripts American Indians to a gravely dangerous and precarious space but also points to the gross insufficiency of models that treat American Indians as simply another ethnic minority group. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, the identity paradox of American Indians deeply problematized the postmodern insistence that we move beyond the concretized categories and disrupt the “myth” of prima facie indicators of identity. For American Indians, such notions **only reflect whitestream reality**. For instance, it currently remains a fundamental truth of Indian reality – no matter how you define it - that the title to Indian land remain in the hands of the U.S. government. Moreover, the U.S. government – not tribes – retains the right to confer “federal recognition” and therefore the power to enable self-determination. Indeed, the criteria required for the federal recognition are constructed to protect the rights and interests of the government and not those of Indian tribes. According to the //Indian Definition Study// (1980), the inner contradictions of the current criteria create the following impossible paradox for tribes:</span>
# <span style="font-size: 10pt;">1. An American Indian is a member of any federally recognized tribe. To be federally recognized, an Indian tribe must be comprised of American Indians. </span>
# <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. To gain federal recognition, an Indian tribe must have a land base. To secure a land base, an Indian tribe must be federally recognized. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">So, five hundred years after the European invasion, “recognized” and “unrecognized” American Indian communities repeatedly find themselves engaged in absurd efforts to prove (in whitestream courts) their existence over time as stable and distinct groups of people. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus, contrary to postmodern rhetoric, **there are in fact, stable markers and prima facie indicators** of what it means to be Indian in American society. Within this context, indigenous scholars cannot afford to perceive essentialism as a mere theoretical construct and may, in fact, be justified in their understanding of it as the **last line of defense** against capitalistic encroachment and last available means for retaining cultural integrity and tribal sovereignty. The question therefore remains whether contemporary theories of identity are able to provide any valuable insights into the paradox of American Indian identity formation. </span>




=Round 3- Aff vs. New Trier KS= 


Graffiti aff. Same as round 1


=Round 4- Neg vs. GBS MP (LNG aff)= 
==1NC- Vagueness== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The plan is vague – the scope of the plan can’t be determined because there isn’t a single solvency advocate for increasing investment in “transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of liquefied natural gas” – anything __could__ support the export of LNG.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Vote negative –</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">A. Ground – the wording of the plan shrinks CP ground down to zero – the 2AC could easily spike out of PIC competition by reclarifying which ports, roads, airports or waterways are effected by the plan.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">B. Limits – the 1NC can’t produce stable offense because the 1AC doesn’t specify the objects of investment – the plan could include a laundry list of things.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Like price adjustment.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Paisie 13</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(John, JEA Consulting Group, “US LNG EXPORT PROJECTS—2 (Conclusion): Projected financial performance supports building at least a few”, 1.7.13, [[http://www.ogj.com/articles/print/volume-111/issue-1/transportation/us-lng-export-projects-2-conclusion-projected.html]], [CL])</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Destination pricing. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The differential between US natural gas prices and natural gas prices in Europe and Asia has often been substantial over the past few years. This article's reference scenario assumes the differential will narrow but remain </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">sufficient to support US exports</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Or anything from building new LNG plants to altering operating expenses and shipping costs.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Paisie 13</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(John, JEA Consulting Group, “US LNG EXPORT PROJECTS—2 (Conclusion): Projected financial performance supports building at least a few”, 1.7.13, [[http://www.ogj.com/articles/print/volume-111/issue-1/transportation/us-lng-export-projects-2-conclusion-projected.html]], [CL])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">While results from the financial analysis </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">support building the LNG export plants,</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> the analysis is not definitive given the level of uncertainty. JEA therefore undertook further analysis addressing each export plant's financial robustness. This evaluation considers the importance of location (East Coast, Gulf Coast, and West Coast), and a range of additional factors affecting financial performance of generic LNG plants. Factors considered include:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Utilization rate, based on throughput as a percentage of design capacity for each liquefaction plant.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Operating expenses, based on typical costs of a liquefaction plant; including maintenance and administrative costs for a medium-sized plant, with adjustments for differences in scale for large and small plants.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Shipping costs, based on the spot rates for each of the most likely routes: East Coast to Europe, Gulf Coast to Europe, Gulf Coast to Asia, and West Coast to Asia.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• US natural gas prices, based on the reference scenario developed by JEA Consulting Group with adjustments for locations: East Coast, Gulf Coast, West Coast.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Natural gas prices at destination, with Japan as the proxy for Asia and Spain as the proxy for Europe, based on the reference scenario developed by JEA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Capital expenditures, based on the typical $/ton for a medium-sized plant with adjustments for economies of scale when constructing a larger (advantage) or smaller (disadvantage) plant.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Cost of capital, based on financing arrangements and typical interest rates for project debt and return-on-equity consistent with risk associated with already active LNG-related sites.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">• Exchange rates, based on 2013 outlook provided by the OECD for rates between the US dollar and Japanese yen and between the US dollar and euro, including expectations for longer-term trends.</span>


==1NC- Jordan Cove PIC== 


**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in liquefied natural gas transportation infrastructure in the United States except for the Jordan Cove Energy Project**



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">If there’s one thing that’s certain after reading the plan it’s that the plan will result in port dredging in Jordan Cove – that leads to ballast releases in the North Pacific</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Learn 12</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Scott, writer for the Oregonian, 1.18.12, “Environmentalists appeal Coos Bay project that could fuel exports of coal and liquefied natural gas”, [[http://www.oregonlive.com/environment/index.ssf/2012/01/environmentalists_appeal_coos.html]], [CL])</span>



<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Environmental groups Wednesday appealed a [[http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/PERMITS/docs/fact_sheet_port_of_coos_bay.pdf?ga=t|state dredging permit]] that could allow the [[http://www.portofcoosbay.com/|Port of Coos Bay]] to export coal and //l//iquefied //n//atural //g//as to Asia. The Oregon [[http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/|Department of State Lands]] approved the permit last month, nearly five years after the port first filed it. The port wants to dredge more than 5 million cubic yards for an access channel and a new two-slip marine terminal on the bay's North Spit. It estimates the terminal would generate from 26 to 280 long-term jobs. Five environmental groups, including the [[http://oregon.sierraclub.org/|Sierra Club]] and [[http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/en/|Greenpeace]], filed the appeal. The [[http://earthjustice.org/sites/default/files/coos-bay-notice.pdf|appeal letter from Earthjustice]] argues that the state should have considered the likely use of the new berths when evaluating the impact of the dredging project. Potential problems include increased ship traffic and pollution generated from ship loading, rainwater runoff from storage facilities and //ballast water releases//. The state also didn't adequately evaluate the environmental damage from dredging, the appeal argues. //The dredging permit is instrumental to building the// [[http://www.oregonlive.com/business/index.ssf/2011/09/coos_bay_lng_backers_to_apply.html|//Jordan Cove liquefied natural gas terminal//]] //and its associated Pacific Connector pipeline//. The port is also negotiating with an undisclosed party for exports of coal, part of a push by Powder River Basin coal companies in Wyoming and Montana to [[http://www.oregonlive.com/environment/index.ssf/2012/01/two_coal_companies_want_to_exp.html|add coal export terminals across the Northwest]]. Environmental groups question why the permit was approved at the same time Oregon's attorney general is making the case before federal regulators that the [[http://www.oregonlive.com/business/index.ssf/2011/12/oregon_asks_feds_to_revoke_lic.html|Jordan Cove export project isn't in Oregon's interest]]. Richard Whitman, Gov. John Kitzhaber's natural resources advisor,[[http://www.oregonlive.com/business/index.ssf/2011/12/coos_bay_liquefied_natural_gas.html| said last month ]]that the state has never tied its approval of port facilities to specific uses and needs to consistently apply its review standards. Other regulatory approvals are required before an LNG project could go forward, Whitman noted. </span>



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ballast water exchanges between Oregon ports and Asia result in the introduction of Invasive Aquatic Species – that shocks local food webs, threatens marine biodiversity and collapses fisheries</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Vinograd and Sytsma 2</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Jordan and Mark, Center for Lakes and Reservoirs, Portland State University, in cooperation with The Oregon Ballast Water Task Force, “Report on the Oregon Ballast Water Management Program in 2002”, [CL])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Impacts of Aquatic Invasive Species Invasion</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">According to SB 895, Aquatic Nuisance Species (ANS) are any species or other viable biological material that enters an ecosystem beyond its historic range. Various other terms are used to describe “nuisance” species including: introduced, foreign, exotic, alien, nonindigenous, non-native, immigrant and transplants. The Oregon Aquatic Nuisance Species Management Plan defines ANS as “plant or animal species that threatens the diversity or abundance of native species, the ecological stability of infested waters, or commercial, agricultural, aqua-cultural, or recreational activities dependent on such waters.”</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">ANS invasions cause economic, ecological, or public health damage</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Ecological impacts include degradation of habitat, alteration of water quality, predation, hybridization, and competition with native species. They cause economic impacts when they clog water intake pipes for industrial water users, power plants, or municipal water supplies and block flow in drainage and irrigation canals. Invasive species can also transmit diseases that could pose health risks to native species and even humans.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">One notable ballast water-mediated invasion was by the zebra mussel (//Dreissena polymorpha//) in the Great Lakes. Since their introduction in 1986 in ballast water from the Caspian Sea, zebra mussels have quickly spread and are now found in at least twenty states and two Canadian Provinces. Great Lakes water users spend tens of millions of dollars on zebra mussel control every year (Clean Water Trust, 1999). Municipalities and industries that use large volumes of Great Lakes water expend an average of $360,000 per year for zebra mussel control. Smaller municipalities spend an average of $20,000 per year. Nuclear power plants incur an average of $825,000 per year in additional costs because of fouling by zebra mussels. As the zebra mussel spreads to inland lakes and rivers across North America, and additional water users are impacted, the costs of zebra mussel control will escalate (ANS Task Force, 2002).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The zebra mussel’s rapid reproduction, coupled with it high filtration and consumption rates of microscopic plants and animals, alters the aquatic food web and places valuable commercial and sport fisheries at risk. Blooms of potentially toxic cyanobacteria have been noted in zebra mussel-infested waters, such as Saginaw Bay of Lake Huron and the western basin of Lake Erie.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">When multiple species introductions occur, unexpected ecological impacts can result. The round goby, //Neogobius melanostomus//, was introduced to the Great Lakes in ballast water from the Black and Caspian Seas. First discovered in 1990 near Detroit, they quickly spread and by 1995 had been reported in all five of the Great Lakes with population numbers reaching high densities in many areas in Lake Erie and Lake Michigan (Manz, 1998). Round gobies feed on zebra mussels, but not at rates that can control zebra mussel abundance. Zebra mussel-infested waters tend to be conducive to the growth of the botulism causing bacteria, //clostridium botulinum//. The poison produced by this bacteria causes type E avian botulism. The current theory suggests that the zebra mussels acquire the type E botulism as they filter the lake water. Then the gobies eat scores of the zebra mussels and also acquire type E (Daneman, 2002). Within hours of ingesting the goby, many loons, mergansers and other fish-eating birds, along with sheepshead, smallmouth bass and other fish, die. In this way, the goby is suspected of contributing to this outbreak of avian botulism in the Great Lakes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">An example of a West Coast invader is the Asian clam, //Potamocorbula amurensi.// The Asian clam was introduced into San Francisco Bay, probably in ballast water, from tropical to cold temperate Asian waters where it is native. First found in San Francisco Bay in 1986, the Asian clam took //only two years to spread throughout the bay estuary//. It colonized a variety of habitats with differing sediment type, water depth and salinity, reaching densities of greater than //10,000 individuals per square meter//. Within one year the composition of the soft substrate community had changed dramatically, with //P. amurensis// comprising more than 95% of its biomass. The //clam forms a benthic monoculture// in San Francisco Bay, displacing the former benthic community and causing sediment disturbance. Like the freshwater zebra mussel, the Asian clam is a suspension feeder that consumes large quantities of phytoplankton. It has altered the phytoplankton community in San Francisco Bay, which is suspected of causing the //collapse of// some //fisheres in the area// (Carlton et al., 1990). The Asian clam is a good example of the type of organism that could be //transported into Oregon waters in coastal shipping.//</span>







<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Every being has intrinsic value</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Merchant 92 </span>(Carol, Ecofeminist and Historian of Science, Radical Ecology “Genesis of Eden” 1992)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Each individual thing, whether a living organism or an atom, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">has intrinsic value</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> and there is a continuity between human and nonhuman experience. One's attitude toward a dog, which is a compound individual, differs from that toward a plant, which is also a compound individual but has no center of enjoyment, and toward a rock, which, as a mere aggregate, has no intrinsic value. All three, however, have instrumental value in supporting each other in the ecosystem." Process thought is consistent with an ecological attitude in two senses: (1) its proponents recognize the "interconnections among things, specifically between organisms and their total environments," and (2) it implies "respect or even reverence for, and perhaps a feeling of kinship with, the other creatures." Cobb and Griffin argue that process philosophy implies an ecological ethic and a policy of social justice and ecological sustainability: </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The whole of nature participates in us and we in it. We are diminished not only by the misery of the Indian peasant but also by the slaughter of whales and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> porpoises, and . . . </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">the 'harvesting' of the giant redwoods.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> We are diminished still more when the imposition of temperate-zone technology onto tropical agriculture turns grasslands into deserts that will support neither human nor animal life." For Cobb's former student jay McDaniel, </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">intrinsic value includes the entire physical world. Atoms as individual things have intrinsic value. Rocks</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> express the energy inherent within their atoms. They </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">too have intensity and intrinsic value</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, albeit less than that of living organisms. Outer form is an expression of inner energy. The assumption that rocks have intrinsic value, however, does not mean that rocks and sentient beings would necessarily have equal ethical value, but rather that they would all be treated with reverence. This could result in a new attitude by Christians toward the natural world, one that involves both objectivity and empathy." Philosopher Susan Armstrong-Buck also sees Whitchead's philosophy as providing an adequate foundation for an environmental ethic because intrinsic value is assigned to nonhuman nature. Process is the continuity of occasions or events that are internally related-each present occasion is an integration of all past occasions. Occasions, Whitehead wrote, are "drops of experience, complex, and interdependent." The world is itself a process of fluent energy; actual entities are self-organizing wholes. Differences exist in the actual occasions that constitute each entity. Intrinsic value is not based on an extension of self-interest to the rest of nature, but on the significance of each occasion and its entire interdependent past history. Assigning preferences to biosystems is based on the degree of diversity, stability, freedom of adaptation, and integration of actual occasions inherent in each 30 system.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rejecting a flat plane ontology is denial of Otherness and the Epitome of Symbolic Violence. Prior question: Can the 1AC justify the value of the living human over others? The hierarchical values of the 1AC make ethics impossible. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Introna 10</span>**(LUCAS, PROFESSOR OF ORGANIZATION, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICS @ LANCASTER UNIVERSITY, AI & SOC, 2010, VOL. 25, “THE ‘MEASURE OF A MAN’ AND THE ETHOS OF HOSPITALITY: TOWARDS AN ETHICAL DWELLING WITH TECHNOLOGY,” PG. 93-102)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Instead of creating value systems in our own self-image, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">the absolute otherness of every Other should be the only moral imperative,</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">so argues Levinas and Derrida. </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">We need an ethics</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> of the artificial that is </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">beyond the self-identical of human beings</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Such an ethics beyond anthropocentric metaphysics need as its ‘ground’, not a system for comparison, but rather a recognition of the impossibility of any comparison—</span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">every comparison is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> already </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">violent in its attempt to render equal what could never be equal</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Levinas 1991[1974]). How might we encounter the other, ethically, in its otherness? This is what I will no turn to. 3 Hospitality as the ethics of a community that have nothing in common ‘‘Hospitality is culture itself and not simply one ethic amongst others. Insofar as it has to do with the ethos... ethics is hospitality; ethics is entirely coextensive with the experience of hospitality, whichever way one expands or limits that.’’—Jacques Derrida, On Cosmopolitanism and Forgiveness, p. 16–17. The fundamental problem for the android Data is that the question of the ethical, its imperative, is already colonised by humans. In this ethical landscape, it becomes impossible for Data to state his case unless it is made in human terms—terms such as ‘machine’, ‘property’, ‘sentience’, etc. </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">It is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> us </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">humans who </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">are </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">mak</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">ing the </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">decisions about the</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> validity, or not, of any criteria or category for establishing </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">the ethical significance of a being</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. It is Data— and by extension all non-humans—that is on trial, not we humans. Our moral worth is taken for granted. As such we are the measure. For example </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">we often take ‘sentience’ as criteria for considering moral significance</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> or worth </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">because we argue that it is a necessary condition for the feeling of pain</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Singer 1977). </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Why should pain be a criterion for moral significance</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">//? Is it because we// can //feel pain//? Are not all our often-suggested criteria such as originality, sentience, rationality, autonomy, and so forth, not somehow always already based on that which we humans by necessity comply with? Is not the essential criterion for moral worthiness (in most ethical thought) a being in our image, like us? </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Is our ethics not always an ethics of those with whom we have something in common</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">? Obviously one can legitimately ask whether it is at all possible for us humans to escape our own moral prejudices—especially if we realise the intimate link between ethics and politics. Furthermore, it seems that </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">every attempt</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> one might have </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">to define</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> common inclusive //ethical categories// or criteria for all things //will fail//, </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">as it already violates every entity by exactly denying that which is most significant—</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">//its radical otherness//. Indeed, as was suggested, most attempts (even some radical environmental ethics) are mostly informed by the assumption that at some level we can indeed compare the incomparable—and, ultimately that the only legitimate reference point for such comparison is that which is in the image of the human Other//. But what about the non-human Other, the inanimate//, the artificial? //What about the community of those with whom we have nothing in common//? 2 There has been many attempts to define more inclusive ethical categories and values such as a biocentric ethics (Goodpaster 1978; Singer 1977), an ecocentric ethics (Leopold 1966; Naess 1995) or even an infocentric ethics by Floridi (2003). The non-human (inanimate) other One might suggest that, for us human beings, a wholly Other, that is indeed wholly Other, is the inanimate Other. In many respects, the destitute face of the human Other, in the ethics of Emmanuel Levinas for example, is already in some sense a reflection of the human face opposite it. We can indeed substitute ourselves for the Other (become her hostage) because we can imagine—at least in some vague sense—what it must be like for the human Other to suffer violence because we suffer violence. </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">It is possible for us to substitute ‘us for them’ because it could have been my friend</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, my child, my partner, etc.). As Husserl (1970/1929) argues, in his Cartesian Mediations, through empathy, ‘‘</span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">we project ourselves into the alien cultural community and its culture’’</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (p. 135) in which the ‘‘the Other’’ exists ‘‘phenomenologically [as] a ‘modification’ of myself’’ (p. 115). </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Through empathy, our egos constitutes a ‘‘single universal community’’ of human intersubjectivity</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (p. 140)—a community with a common unity. As human beings, that also encounter ourselves as Other, we know that we always exceed and overflow the caricatures that the intentionality of consciousness endeavours to impose on us, that we are always infinitely more (or radically other) than any and all such caricatures. It is this infinity that Levinas points to when he claims ethics as ‘first philosophy.’ What about the inanimate Other? In his book Technology and Lifeworld Ihde (1990) argues for an extension of Levinas’ notion of alterity (or quasi-otherness) to inanimate things.3 He argues that the ‘religious object’ ‘‘does not simply ‘represent’ some absent power but is endowed with the sacred. Its aura of sacredness is spatially and temporally present within the range of its efficacy’’ (98). Ihde argues, however, that this quasi-otherness always remains in the domain of human invention. In other words, it is still within the realm of that which we humans bring to it—even if it is unintentional or not for instrumental purposes, hence his designation of the object as quasi-other. One might say it is plausible to see the religious object as an Other in some way (even if it is quasi-other) but </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">what about everyday objects </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">such as the table? I want to suggest with Harman (2002, 2005) that the table (and all other inanimate objects) are also infinitely other, always more than that which human intentionality brings to it. In Tool-Being Harman (2002) argues that even the table, in the fullness of its being, is infinite. Although the intentional acts of consciousness transform it by necessity into a caricature (into some form of present-at-hand being), such acts do not, and never can, exhaust it. As Harman (2002) suggests: </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">‘‘However, deeply we meditate on the table’s act of supporting solid weights</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, however, tenaciously we monitor its presence, </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">any insight that is yielded will always be</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> something quite </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">distinct from this act [of being] itself’’</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (22)—what he calls its tool-being. The table, here before me, is always more than all the perspectives, levels or layers that we can enumerate, more than all the uses we can put it to, more than all possible perspectives, levels, layers or uses. Harman (2002, 2005) argues that any and all possible relations between humans and things will inevitably fail to grasp them as they are; //they are,// in the fullness of their being, irreducible to any and all of these relations.4 In short: they are, in the fullness of their being, //infinite and wholly Other//. Indeed, as was suggested above, one might claim that </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">they are</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> in a sense </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">more Other (if one can say this at all) than the human Other since we can never in any sense put ourselves ‘in their shoes,’ as it were</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Thus, if the infinitely otherness of the Other is what compels us—puts our own right to existence into question, as Levinas argues—then //we have no basis for excluding the inanimate// Other from the kingdom of Others—even if Levinas did not arrive at this conclusion. His Other is always the humanistic, or ultimately, the theistic Other. This paper endeavours to go beyond this boundary, to forsake all boundaries, to enter into a community that have nothing in common (Lingis 1994). Is such a community possible?</span>


==1NC- Predictions K (2NR)== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Their alarmist predictions create a culture of fear that destroys existing public engagement—causes global catastrophe and justifies structural violence in the name of probabilistic scenarios.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa 4 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight”, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, http://www.yorku.ca/kurasawa/Kurasawa%20Articles/Constellations%20Article.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Up to this point, I have tried to demonstrate that transnational socio-political relations are nurturing a thriving culture and infrastructure of prevention from below, which challenges presumptions about the inscrutability of the future (II) and a stance of indifference toward it (III). Nonetheless, unless and until it is substantively ‘filled in,’ the argument is vulnerable to misappropriation since farsightedness does not in and of itself ensure emancipatory outcomes. Therefore, this section proposes to specify normative criteria and participatory procedures through which citizens can determine the ‘reasonableness,’ legitimacy, and effectiveness of competing dystopian visions in order to arrive at a socially self-instituting future. Foremost among thepossible distortions of farsightedness is alarmism, the manufacturing ofunwarranted and unfounded doomsday scenarios. State and market institutionsmay seek to produce a culture of fear by deliberately stretching interpretations of realitybeyond the limits of the plausible so as to exaggerate the prospects of impending catastrophes, or yet again, by intentionally promoting certain prognoses over others for instrumental purposes. Accordingly, regressive dystopiascan operate as Trojan horses advancing political agendasor commercial interests that would otherwise be susceptible to public scrutiny and opposition. Instances of this kind of manipulation of the dystopian imaginary are plentiful: the invasion of Iraq in the name of fighting terrorism and an imminent threat of use of ‘weapons of mass destruction’; the severe curtailing of American civil liberties amidst fears of a collapse of ‘homeland security’; the neoliberal dismantling of the welfare state as the only remedy for an ideologically constructed fiscal crisis; the conservative expansion of policing and incarceration due to supposedly spiraling crime waves; and so forth. Alarmism constructs and codes the future in particular ways, producing or reinforcing certain crisis narratives, belief structures, and rhetorical conventions. As much as alarmist ideas beget a culture of fear, the reverse is no less true. If fear-mongering is a misappropriation of preventive foresight, resignation about the future represents a problematic outgrowth of the popular acknowledgment of global perils. Some believe that the world to come is so uncertain and dangerous that we should not attempt to modify the course of history; the future will look after itself for better or worse, regardless of what we do or wish. One version of this argument consists in a complacent optimism perceiving the future as fated to be better than either the past or the present. Frequently accompanying it is a self-deluding denial of what is plausible (‘the world will not be so bad after all’), or a naively Panglossian pragmatism (‘things will work themselves out in spite of everything, because humankind always finds ways to survive’).37 Much more common, however, isthe opposite reaction, a fatalistic pessimism reconciled to the idea that the future will be necessarily worse than what preceded it. This is sustained by a tragic chronological framework according to which humanity is doomed to decay, or a cyclical one of the endless repetition of the mistakes of the past. On top of their dubious assessments of what is to come, alarmismand resignation would, if widely accepted, undermine a viable practice of farsightedness. Indeed, both of them encourage public disengagement from deliberation about scenarios for the future, a process that appears to be dangerous, pointless, or unnecessary. The resulting ‘depublicization’ of debate leaves dominant groups and institutions(the state, the market, techno-science) in charge of sorting out the future for the rest of us, thus effectively producing a heteronomous social order. How, then, can we support a democratic process of prevention from below? The answer, I think, lies in cultivating the public capacity for critical judgment and deliberation, so that participants in global civil society subject all claims about potential catastrophes to examination, evaluation, and contestation. Two normative concepts are particularly well suited to grounding these tasks: the precautionary principle and global justice.</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The impact is biopolitical domination of the political sphere- this is the only way genocide becomes possible</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 00</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College [Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida's suitably menacing phrase) "remainderless and a-symbolic destruction," then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively local. In shape and in substance, apocalypseis defined now by the affliction it brings somewhere else, always to an "other" people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and prosperity of a cherished "general population."This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag's incisive observation, from 1989, that, "Apocalypse is now a long running serial: not 'Apocalypse Now' but 'Apocalypse from Now On.'" The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse(the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that the apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, throughthe perpetual threat of destruction– through the constant reproduction of the figure of the apocalypse – the agencies of power ensure their authority to act on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of The History of Sexuality addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, "life-administering." Power, he contends, "exerts a positive influence on life … [and] endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations." In his brief comments on what20he calls "the atomic situation," however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as "managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race,"agencies of modern power presume to act "on the behalf of the existence of everyone." Whatsoever might be construed as a threat to life and survival in this way serves to authorize any expression of force, no matter how invasive, or, indeed, potentially annihilating."If genocide is indeed the dream of modern power," Foucault writes, "this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill' it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population." For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patters and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>







**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s construction of disease as an apocalyptic threat it not productive- the emergency response to pandemics creates ineffective responses- turns the case </span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ridley 2012</span> (Matt, PhD in zoology at Oxford, science editor of The Economist, first chairman of the International Centre for Life, a science park devoted to life sciences in Newcastle, governor of the Ditchley Foundation; "http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2012/08/ff_apocalypsenot/all/")



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Repeatedly </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">throughout the past five decades, the imminent advent of a new pandemic has been foretold</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. The 1976 swine flu panic was an early case. Following the death of a single recruit at Fort Dix, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">the Ford administration vaccinated more than 40 million Americans, but more people probably died from adverse reactions to the vaccine than died of swine flu</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. A few years later, a fatal virus did begin to spread at an alarming rate, initially through the homosexual community. AIDS was soon, rightly, the focus of serious alarm. But not all the dire predictions proved correct. “Research studies now project that one in five—listen to me, hard to believe—one in five heterosexuals could be dead from AIDS at the end of the next three years. That’s by 1990. One in five,” Oprah Winfrey warned in 1987. Bad as AIDS was, the broad-based epidemic in the Americas, Europe, and Asia never materialized as feared, though it did in Africa. In 2000 the US National Intelligence Council predicted that HIV/AIDS would worsen in the developing world for at least 10 years and was “likely to aggravate and, in some cases, may even provoke economic decay, social fragmentation and political destabilization in the hardest hit countries in the developing and former communist worlds.” Yet the peak of the epidemic had already passed in the late 1990s, and today AIDS is in slow retreat throughout the world. New infections were 20 percent lower in 2010 than in 1997, and the lives of more than 2.5 million people have been saved since 1995 by antiretroviral treatment. “Just a few years ago, talking about ending the AIDS epidemic in the near term seemed impossible, but science, political support, and community responses are starting to deliver clear and tangible results,” UNAIDS executive director Michel Sidibé wrote last year. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The emergence of AIDS led to a theory that other viruses would spring from tropical rain forests to wreak revenge on humankind for its ecological sins</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. That, at least, was the implication of Laurie Garrett’s 1994 book, The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The most prominent candidate was Ebola,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> the hemorrhagic fever that starred in Richard Preston’s The Hot Zone, published the same year. Writer Stephen King called the book “one of the most horrifying things I’ve ever read.” Right on cue, Ebola appeared again in the Congo in 1995, but it soon disappeared. Far from being a harbinger, HIV was the only new tropical virus to go pandemic in 50 years. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">In the 1980s British cattle began dying from mad cow disease</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, caused by an infectious agent in feed that was derived from the remains of other cows. When </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">people, too, began to catch this disease, predictions of the scale of the epidemic quickly turned terrifying</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">: Up to 136,000 would die, according to one study. A pathologist warned that the British “have to prepare for perhaps thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, of cases of vCJD [new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the human manifestation of mad cow] coming down the line.” Yet the total number of deaths so far in the UK has been 176, with just five occurring in 2011 and none so far in 2012. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">In 2003 it was SARS</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, a virus from civet cats, that ineffectively but inconveniently led to quarantines in Beijing and Toronto amid predictions of global Armageddon. SARS subsided within a year, after killing just 774 people. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">In 2005 it was bird flu,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> described at the time by a United Nations official as being “like a combination of global warming and HIV/AIDS 10 times faster than it’s running at the moment.” The World Health Organization’s official forecast was 2 million to 7.4 million dead. In fact, by late 2007, when the disease petered out, the death toll was roughly 200. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">In 2009 it was Mexican swine flu</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. WHO director general Margaret Chan said: “It really is all of humanity that is under threat during a pandemic.” The outbreak proved to be a normal flu episode. The truth is, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">a new global pandemic is growing less likely, not more.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Mass migration to cities means the opportunity for viruses to jump from wildlife to the human species has not risen and has possibly even declined, despite media hype to the contrary. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Water- and insect-borne infections—generally the most lethal—are declining as living standards </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">slowly</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> improve</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. It’s true that casual-contact infections such as colds are thriving—but only by being mild enough that their victims can soldier on with work and social engagements, thereby allowing the virus to spread. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Even if a lethal virus does go global, the ability of medical science to sequence its genome and devise a vaccine or cure is getting better all the time</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We affirm the entirety of the 1AC but reject their apocalyptic rhetoric to justify the plan’s passage- </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Apocalyptic rhetoric flips rational policy debate on its head. They lead to worse education and worse future policy making</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodnight 2010</span> (G. Thomas Goodnight is Professor and Director of Doctoral Studies at the Annenberg School for Communication, the University of Southern California in Los Angeles; "The Metapolitics of the 2002 Iraq Debate: Public Policy and the Network Imaginary", Rhetoric & Public Affairs Volume 13, Number 1, Spring 2010)

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Opponents of the Democratic Party argued the risks of war, but their pragmatic policy challenges did not grab sufficient traction to slow the unreeling web of justification. Of course, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">there was little denial that the war would create more terrorists</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, generate a lower threshold for intervention, receive weak international support, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">and in the end leave the dangerous business of Afghanistan unfinished</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. But the Democrats became entangled in reflexive posturing about the effects of the debate itself—the importance of "message sending" to the United Nations and "consensus" backing for the president as negotiator-in-chief. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">With 9/11 not far behind, "tough" messages appeared to provide a much desired supplement to boost confidence, while pragmatism, caution, and planning took a back seat.Presidential hopefuls cut loose from this morass and took advantage of Republican-offered political cover. Republicans did appear to benefit from tough war rhetoric in the immediate election aftermath, enabling Bush to run successfully in 2004 as a wartime president.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> As WMD continued not to turn up, the intervention dragged on, costs mounted, political fortunes reversed—although the entanglements remained and remain. [End Page 87] The debate of 2002 found that a systematic presidential campaign—when bolstered by cherry-picked evidence—can be particularly powerful, especially when administration supporters in Congress veer shamelessly from long-held positions on policy and the leadership of the opposing party takes shelter in offered political cover. Further, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">the debate illustrates how the events that should prompt policy debate become colonized, in this case making common sense difficult to muster because the network imaginary laces a web of associative fears with compensatory toughness.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> On the whole, the debates were not the nation's finest hour. The debate of 2002 strove to convert a traumatic national event into a conservative-articulated, Republican-captured, presidentially initiated rise in power, and ended by setting the stage for congressional investigation, the rise of the Democrats, reassertion of congressional power, and a new presidency committed to public diplomacy. WMD were at the heart of the six-year-long controversy. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">It was hardly remembered that [WMD] weapons of mass destruction were not deployed by terrorists on September 11th. Rather, fast, anonymous, networked, modern systems of circulation were turned, through ingenuity, into first-strike weapons. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Seen with fresh militancy, 9/11 suggests that the modern world remains vulnerable to mutating events that change, shock, and command attention, actions that attain expanding scope and influence by virtue of a network imaginary, where such moments self-organize and multiply in varied directions. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The development of policy studies as rhetoric, then, calls attention to the disruptive events as these become situated in the restricted focus of national debate and recovered, through critique, as an unfinished metapolitics, which demands rethinking of the taken-for-granted grounds and alliances upon which post-event consensus became fabricated.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> In its time, the "War on Terror" was framed as a "clash of civilizations" and a new Munich. In retrospect, 9/11 should be understood as signaling a much closer, changing, entangled, future world where the complications of security spread and interlock to haunt twenty-first-century network imaginaries.</span>


==1NC- Disease adv.== 

No leverage from gas – we can’t trade it across regions
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MIT</span>** (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Interdisciplinary group including: Study Co-chairs Ernes t J. Moniz — Chair Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Physics and Engineering Systems, MIT Director, MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI) **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2010</span>** "The Future of Natural Gas" [[http://web.mit.edu/mitei/research/studies/report-natural-gas.pdf]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Currently world gas trade is concentrated in three regional markets: North America,¶ Europe (served by Russia and Africa) </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">and Asia</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (with a link to the Middle East). </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">There¶ are significant movements of gas within each of these markets, but limited trade</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">¶ among them.¶ Different pricing structures hold within these regional markets. For some </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">transactions,¶ prices are set in liquid competitive markets; in others they are dominated by¶ contracts linking gas prices to prices of crude oil and oil products</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. As a result, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">gas¶ prices can differ substantially among the regions.¶ These</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> relatively </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">isolated, regionalized markets could be sustained for many more¶ decades</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. On the other hand, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">it is possible that LNG or pipeline transport could grow,¶ linking these three regions, with the effect of increasing interregional gas competition,¶</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> loosening price contracts tied to oil products and moderating the price deviations¶ among the regions.¶ Such a process could go in many directions depending on the development of supply¶ capacity by those nations with very large resources (mainly Russia and countries in¶ the Middle East) or perhaps the expansion of nonconventional sources elsewhere.¶ To the extent the structure evolves in this direction, however, there are major implications¶ for U.S. natural gas production and use.¶</span>


Diseases not a threat.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Posner, Federal Judge and Senior Lecturer at U Chicago Law, 2005</span>
Richard, Catastrophe: the dozen most significant catastrophic risks and what we can do about them, Skeptic, 1-1, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Yet the fact that </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Homo sapiens has managed to survive every disease to assail it in the 200,000 years </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">or so of its existence is a source of genuine comfort, at least if the focus is on extinction events. There have been enormously destructive </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">plagues</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, such as the Black Death, smallpox, and now AIDS, but </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">none has come close to destroying the entire human race</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. There is a biological reason. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Natural selection favors germs of limited lethality; they are fitter in an evolutionary sense because their genes are more likely to be spread if the germs do not kill their hosts too quickly</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. The AIDS virus is an example of a lethal virus, wholly natural, that by lying dormant yet infectious in its host for years maximizes its spread. Yet there is no danger that AIDS will destroy the entire human race. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The likelihood of a natural pandemic that would cause the extinction of the human race is probably even less today</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> than in the past (except in prehistoric times, when people lived in small, scattered bands, which would have limited the spread of disease), despite wider human contacts that make it more difficult to localize an infectious disease. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The reason is improvements in medical science. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">But the comfort is a small one. Pandemics can still impose enormous losses and resist prevention and cure: the lesson of the AIDS pandemic. And there is always a lust time.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adaptation checks disease</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Galdwell 95 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Staff</span> writer for New Yorker (Malcolm, The New Republic, 7-17)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">McNeill's point, however, is that while man's efforts to "remodel" his environment are sometimes a source of new disease, they are seldom a source of serious epidemic disease. Quite the opposite. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">As humans and new microorganisms interact, they</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> begin to </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">accommodate each other</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Human </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">populations</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> slowly </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">build up resistance</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> to circulating infections. What were </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">once virulent infections</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, such as syphilis, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">become attenuated</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Over time, diseases of adults, such as measles and chicken pox, become limited to children, whose immune systems are still naive. McNeill remarks that it was during the mid-fifteenth century that the population of Europe began to expand steadily, even though "it was during these decades that the oceanic discoveries took place, and European sailors had the opportunity to import new infections into their homelands from the ports of all the earth." Precisely because they had been exposed to these micro-organisms, the Europeans were hardened to their effects. This, says McNeill, is the paradox of infection: "</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The more diseased a community, the less destructive its epidemics become</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">." Who, after all, suffered the most from the discovery of the New World? Not the conquerors, the ones who were despoiling a virgin environment. It was the conquered, the American Indians, the peoples living on a secluded and pristine continent, who were all but wiped out by the sudden arrival of smallpox. This does not mean, of course, that we should not worry about the effects of man's continuing assault on nature. But it does mean </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">that there is nothing inherently terrifying about</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> the fact that the West is now being exposed to new </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">microbes from</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> equatorial </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Africa. We are</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> ultimately </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">safer in a world where new viruses</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> and bacteria </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">are in constant circulation</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, and </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">where</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> human </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">populations can</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> encounter and </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">build defenses against them.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Unlocking the viruses of the rainforest is part of the way we tame nature, not the way nature tames us.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And human-virus equilibrium is inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zumla ‘2</span> (Alimuddin, Center for Infectious Diseases and International Health at University College London, Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, 95(6), June, [[http://www.adobe.com/shockwave/download/download.cgi]]?)

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Betrayal of Trust can be recommended to all readers of the JRSM, and especially to politicians, physicians and health workers who have not yet woken up to the fact that infectious diseases have made a major comeback and will be with us for a long time. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">In my annual introductory lecture on ‘infectious diseases’ to new clinical students I point out that the human race serves as a culture medium for microorganisms, but that the survival of both microbe and human depends on achievement of equilibrium. This notion offers some comfort, in that an advantage for microbes is unlikely to eliminate the human race.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Garrett's book, on the coffee table, will keep us asking, ‘Can we do anything more to prop up public health?’.</span>


==1NC- Oil adv.== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zero risk of peak oil – reserves constantly increasing, technology means better extraction and exploration methods, price spikes lead to fast substitutes and efficiency eases demand.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gorellick</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span> (Steven M., Cyrus Fisher Tolman Professor in the School of Earth Sciences at Stanford University, //Oil Panic and the Global Crisis,// December, Pages 222-224)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Much evidence shows a declining trend in huge oil discoveries, and </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">oil is seemingly becoming harder to find. Yet, the amount of global oil reserves </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(known and profitable resource) </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">continues to grow</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, and the success rate of exploratory wells has increased. The debate continues, with some pointing to recent relatively high oil prices and the slow pace of addition to supplies compared to the past. But the low price of oil (less than $30 per barrel (2007$)) during the 1980s and 1990s discouraged exploration, a trend that reversed when oil prices rose in the first decade of this millennium. All the while, OPEC has tried to control its production and allow oil prices to climb as demand increased, while world events, ranging from striking workers to hurricanes, limited global production. Under these constraints of exploration and production, a snapshot of the high price of oil at a particular time is not a valid indicator of resource scarcity. This is most apparent in the long-term downward trend in the price of gasoline adjusted for inflation. Compared with the mass-balance and curve-fitting approach discussed above, is it not as scientific to develop a forecast of global oil production that: (1) is based on an unknown oil endowment, (2) allows for oil resources from unconventional sources, (3) considers the dynamics of demand for oil and the purposes oil serves, and (4) anticipates technology that will enhance discovery, recovery, use-efficiency, and the role of substitutes? Let us examine this approach. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Production trends of non-renewable Earth resources have depended on new technologies for discovery, resource development, and efficient use.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> The difficulty with depending on future technology to make resources avail­able is the risk that advances will not be timely or not occur at all. After all, how can one predict the rate and significance of commercially viable break­throughs in resource discovery, production, and use-efficiency? One approach is to estimate the historical number of innovations based on inspection of spending on research and development. Another approach is to count patent activity. Both measures can provide some idea of the rate of innovation but are deficient because not all spending or ideas result in successful inventions in the form of new machines or methods, and the lag time between concept and implementation can be decades. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Studies of technology in the petroleum industry </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">have attempted to overcome these weaknesses by directly estimat­ing the number of innovative technologies historically brought to practice. The advantage of this approach is the ability to exclude the number of fail­ures from the total and record the implementation date. In two studies</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">,researchers</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">combed through trade journals and consulted with industry experts regarding advances in petroleum exploration and development from 1947 to 1965 and 1966 to 1990, respectively. Both studies</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">found an average of four to five such innovations per year</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.74 What these results suggest is that innovations are not rare events. Predicting the likely impact of any new technology remains a challenge, but there appears to be a steady stream of inventions. Petroleum exploration, development, and refining processes have always been driven by technological advances. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">From the beginning of the Oil Era, new ways have been used to deduce the presence of oil beneath the land or ocean and to advance the ability to drill, optimally produce oil, and more effectively refine it</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. In 1908, Howard Hughes, Senior, invented the "rock bit," whose 166 cutting edges enabled drilling deep wells for the first time.75 In 1913, a patent was issued on the process of distilling oil under pressure wherein heavier hydrocarbon molecules were cracked (broken down) to form lighter liquids. This breakthrough resulted in refining that doubled the amount of gasoline produced from a barrel of oil (40 percent versus 20 percent gasoline).76 Today, the oil industry is a high-tech business, with technological advances being adopted in areas ranging from discovery to recovery. Computer-aided visualization, 3D viewing, and new geophysical methods have accompanied major progress in the use of horizontal wells and precision directional drilling. Rather than leaving behind most of the oil after pumping, modern production can remove the majority of oil initially in place. Dismissing the consistent role played by technological advances and thereby unavoidably forecasting global depletion is to ignore historical data and processes that should be a part of a valid scientific analysis. The world has depended on technological advances in many industries, and to think that they will stop is nonsensical. Forecasts of global oil depletion should not depend on global endowment estimates that have not held up. Predictions should not rely so heavily on the convenient and simplistic projections of historical discovery and production data</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">.Increased transportation fuel efficiency is essential to reducing future oil demand</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. In the 1970s, annual global oil production was about 5.1 barrels per person. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">When the CAFE standards of 27.5 mpg improved new fuel economy by 14 mpg, annual global per capita production dropped to 4.l barrels per person</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, and that figure has remained fixed for the past 25 years. Global oil use has grown at the same rate as the increase in population. If fuel efficiency were increased to 43 mpg, oil production might fall to 3 barrels per person per year. At that per capita rate, peak global oil production would occur during the anticipated period of maximum global population of 9.22 billion in 2075.77 Under that scenario, annual global oil production requirements would be 27.7 billion barrels, which is essentially the global production value seen in the past few years. Should the world of the future choose to use oil as we do today to power transportation, our current rate of production would be sufficient as long as vehicle fuel economy were improved by about 60 percent. This prospect seems likely. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Fuel economy improved by more than 60 percent in response to the original 1975 CAFE standards, and many small cars and hybrids already get 43 to 50 mpg </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(5.5 to 4.7 liters per 100 km). The 2007 revised CAFE standard of 35 mpg by 2020 added 7.5 mpg, but at least another 7.5 mpg gain is needed, The rest of the world is ahead of the US on vehicle fuel economy, and the US must catch up and begin to take the lead. The Obama administration is aiming to shorten the time-line for fuel-economy compliance to 2016 and make the standard 35.5 mpg, roughly in line with the California requirement.' This is a move in the right direction, but it is not enough to facilitate a concerted effort to replace light-fleet vehicles with plug-in hybrids and electric cars. After a viable technology that improves efficiency is introduced, its adop­tion spreads. Typically, there is no widespread reversion to an older ineffi­cient approach. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">The global transfer of new technology affects oil recovery and consumption. A rapid increase in oil prices can have a positive effect on technology and the direction of our oil-consumption path. High prices promote efficiency and the introduction of substitutes. As a consequence of innovation, the ultimate result of an increase in price is a sustainable lower price</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. However, that progression will likely involve coping with oil-supply disruptions and oil-price volatility. Alternatively, a new model would be to actively promote oil-price stability and allow for the orderly transition to the most sensible transportation-fuel alternatives. If there is</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">a peak and decline in global oil production during the next two decades, it is more likely that it will reflect a decrease in global oil demand, rather than production choked by critically low global availability. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The state of global oil resources (listed above) suggests that improvements in technology and efficiency will allow for continued use of conventional oil resources. The line between conventional and unconventional sources of oil will blur as more unconventional sources come on line. However, issues other than availability have become increasingly important to our future use of oil. Driven by security, stability, and environmental concerns, major consuming nations may shift away from conventional oil as a transportation fuel. Based on the history of production of other non-renewable Earth resources,</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">a move away from today's conventional oil will take place long before the end of the global endowment is in sight</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

The US is immune to oil shocks
<span class="cite">Luft,</span>PhD, executive director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, 200<span class="cite">7</span>
(Gal, inFocus, Summer Iran's Oil Industry: A House of Cards?)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Considering the long-term risks associated with a nuclear Iran, higher prices at the gas pump should not drive any Western country's Iran policy. No doubt, if Iran's production falls, due to investors' departure or a calculated decision by Iran to use the oil weapon and cut its production, there will be economic fallout. However, Iran will be the main casualty of any disruption. Additionally, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">in recent years, theU.S. economy hasshownremarkable resiliency in the face ofmounting oil pricesand can withstandeven higher prices. There is also a safety net in place.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Most </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">major oil consuming countries maintain massive strategic petroleum reserves in the event of a drop in supply. The U.S. alone has</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">some 700 million barrels of oil in reserve – </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">two years worth ofIranian exports. To insulate the U.S. further</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, President </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">Bush seeks to double the size of the American oil reserve in the coming years. The President also seeks to reduceAmerica's oil dependence throughincreased efficiency and to shift to alternative fuels</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Applied in unison, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">thesetactics</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> advance the strategic goals of reducing global energy prices, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">protect</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">ing </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">the West against supply disruptions,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> and limiting the flow of petrodollars to Tehran. This increased pressure on the Iranian regime could, over time, generate a much desired regime change. If Washington executes this strategy with expediency and determination, this outcome could be achieved before Iran becomes a nuclear power.</span>

1
No oil spikes.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne ‘6</span> Christopher Layne, Prof Intl Relations at Texas A&M, 2006
The Peace of Illusions, p. 179-180
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Domestic instability in a major oil-producing state is another threat to US. interests in the Gulf In the form of civil unrest</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">, instabilitycould temporarily reduce the flow of oil from an affected country and drive up prices. However, because theoil industry is globally integrated, other oil producers would increase their own production to make up for the lost capacity. Thus, any spike in oil prices would be temporary, and lost supplies would be replenished by other producers</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. In fact, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">past experience shows that this is precisely what happens</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> when internal instability in an oil-producing state causes a temporary disruption in oil supplies.63 Instability in any of the Gulf oil producers, of course, could bring a hostile regime to power. Here, there are two things to keep in mind. First, it is unlikely that </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">U.S. military intervention</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> could forestall) such an event, and indeed it </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">might make things worse</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Second, the economic consequences of such an event are exaggerated. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 9pt;">In an integrated, global oil market it is immaterial whether a hostile regime would sell oil directly to the United States. Because oil is fungible, all that matters is that such a regime make its oil available to the market. The chances of a hostile regime embargoing its oil are very low. All the major oil producers in the Gulf are economically dependent on their oil revenues</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Even if a hostile regime in the Gulf wanted to embargo oil shipments to the United States or the West, it could not long do so without shooting itself in the foot economically. Moreover, if a hostile regime chose to behave in an economically irrational fashion by sacrificing income to achieve political or economic objectives, markets would adjust. Higher oil prices caused by an embargo would lead oil- consuming states like the United States to switch to alternative energy sources and use energy more efficiently, and also provide an incentive for other oil-producing states to increase the supply of oil in the market.64 Simply put, in relatively short order the supply-demand equilibrium would re-, turn to the marketplace, and oil prices would return to their natural marketplace level.</span>



=Round 5- Aff vs. Leland AV= 

Same ole Graffiti swag

=Round 6- Neg vs. Lakeland PS (Port Security aff)= 

Went 1 off Wilderson- cites are on regular season wiki

=Round 7- Neg vs. GBN CT (Khazakstan aff)= 
==1NC- Plan Flaw== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12.727272033691406px; text-align: start;">Under no circumstances is this plan acceptable.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12.727272033691406px; text-align: start;">1. The phrase "Aktau transportation infrastructure" is nonsensical because the term "Aktau" is used as an adjective, not as a noun. This means they increase investment in a type of infrastructure which literally does not exist - the plan text does nothing to remedy the advantage, and you should vote negative on presumption. Plan flaw is a voting issue: even if the 1AC is not a full bill the plan text represents the intention of the policy and must be held to a high standard because the plan is the only source for counterplan competition.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12.727272033691406px; text-align: start;">2. The aff increases investment in a foreign country - clearly this violates the clause "in the United States" in the resolution, which indicates the investment must be from the federal government for the United States. Their interpretation justifies a global topic - any area the US has any marginal interest in becomes a potential relations advantage, meaning Guam, China, Taiwan, South Korea, all of the Middle East, and every other country becomes topical - massively overwhelms the negative research burden and skews ground too far affirmative.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12.727272033691406px; text-align: start;">3. The conclusion of the plan text is to increase investment "IN" the United States - this means the money cannot leave the United States. The only plausible interpretation of the plan text would be to give investment "FROM" the United States - the plan text as written cannot invest outside the country. </span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12.727272033691406px; text-align: start;">1NC- Spanos K</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The desire to overcome American alienation the international sphere is merely an attempt to repress the specter of Vietnam which haunts post-Iraq United States by ameliorating the anxiety produced by the visible violence of an imperial state</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spanos 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (William, Prof of English and Comparative Literature at Binghamtom University , “The Specter of Vietnam” pg 13-14)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The war in Vietnam, it should not be forgotten, was inaugurated and escalated to its most intense and destructive violence by both liberal Democratic and conservative Republican presidential administrations (Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, and Richard Nixon) and was debated globally, not in terms of the fate of democracy in America, but of the very idea of liberal capitalist democracy. This spectacle of the self-destruction of the “benign” logic of liberal democracy— this inadvertent rendering visible of the genocidal violence latent in its otherwise invisible because banalized imperial “center elsewhere” —was the essential witness of the Vietnam War at large. It was, if the grotesquely comic banality (to which the highly serious American speaker is utterly blind) is understood as a carnivalesque trope of the inexpressible horror of the event he, like the Pentagon planners of the war, routinizes, 16 perfectly imaged in synecdochical form by the major who, in the aftermath of a large-scale search and destroy operation, told a reporter, “in a successful attempt at attaining history, ‘We had to destroy Ben Tre in order to save it.’”17 Ben Tre, it should be remarked, was not simply a geographical/political space nor one occupied by the “enemy”; it is an earth, as we shall see later in this book, inhabited by a community of people whose culture sacralized this earth’s very (spatial and temporal) being. We must, that is, not be seduced by the emergent “larger pattern” of History into forgetting that America’s intervention in Southeast Asia was undertaken in the name of “winning the hearts and minds” of the Vietnamese people to the fundamental and historically realized ontological principles of “the free world” and that it eventually took the visibly contradictory form of an all-out—undiscriminating—linguistic, ecological, cultural, economic, and military violence. We must also not forget that this polyvalent violence was read by a significant portion of the people of the United States, of Europe, and of the Third World, including responsible representative Western intellectuals such as Jean-Paul Sartre, Bertram Russell, Noam Chomsky, and Martin Luther King, as genocidal in its intent and in its proportions. Nor must we forget that, however symptomatically enacted, the protestation of the war in the United States—its “refusal of spontaneous consent” to the truth discourse of liberal capitalist democracy, to invoke Antonio Gramsci18—brought the American government to a crisis that only the disruption of the Civil War has surpassed in critical intensity. The examples (among many others) of President Lyndon Johnson’s decision not to run for reelection and the ensuing violence unleashed by Mayor Richard Daley at the Democratic national convention in Chicago and a little later by Governor James Rhodes at Kent State University attest to this crisis of hegemony. What, in other words, happened in that time, which must not be forgotten— but which, since then, an entire culture industry has made it its priority to erase from the American national memory—was, to appropriate Michel Foucault’s language, something akin to an epistemic break. The unspeakable violence perpetrated in the name of the principles of freedom by the United States during the Vietnam War symptomatically disclosed at multiple sites on the continuum of being the contradictions inhering in the truth discourse of liberal capitalist democracy. To put it concretely and positively, America’s inordinately violent conduct of the war made visible the polyvalent global imperial will to power that, under normal conditions, strategically remains invisible in the (onto)logic of the “free world.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The aff’s epistemology makes violence inevitable – the construction of a geopolitical image enframes thought into modes of strategy. Positivist claims about the nature of the State are tautological and rely on insecurity, demanding the world to reveal itself to us. This ensures a violence of haunting. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2 [Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, page @ http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The epistemology of violence I describe here (strategic science and foreign policy doctrine) claims positivistic clarity about techniques of military and geopolitical action which use force and coercion to achieve a desired end, an end that is supplied by the ontological claim to national existence, security, or order. However in practice, technique quickly passes into ontology. This it does in two ways. First, instrumental violence is married to an ontology of insecure national existence which itself admits no questioning. The nation and its identity are known and essential, prior to any conflict, and the resort to violence becomes an equally essential predicate of its perpetuation. In this way knowledge-as-strategy claims, in a positivistic fashion, to achieve a calculability of effects (power) for an ultimate purpose (securing being) that it must always assume. Second, strategy as a technique not merely becomes an instrument of state power but ontologises itself in a technological image of 'man' as a maker and user of things, including other humans, which have no essence or integrity outside their value as objects. In Heidegger's terms, technology becomes being; epistemology immediately becomes technique, immediately being. This combination could be seen in the aftermath of the 2006 Lebanon war, whose obvious strategic failure for Israelis generated fierce attacks on the army and political leadership and forced the resignation of the IDF chief of staff. Yet in its wake neither ontology was rethought. Consider how a reserve soldier, while on brigade-sized manoeuvres in the Golan Heights in early 2007, was quoted as saying: 'we are ready for the next war'. Uri Avnery quoted Israeli commentators explaining the rationale for such a war as being to 'eradicate the shame and restore to the army the "deterrent power" that was lost on the battlefields of that unfortunate war'. In 'Israeli public discourse', he remarked, 'the next war is seen as a natural phenomenon, like tomorrow's sunrise.' The danger obviously raised here is that these dual ontologies of war link being, means, events and decisions into a single, unbroken chain whose very process of construction cannot be examined. As is clear in the work of Carl Schmitt, being implies action, the action that is war. This chain is also obviously at work in the U.S. neoconservative doctrine that argues, as Bush did in his 2002 West Point speech, that 'the only path to safety is the path of action', which begs the question of whether strategic practice and theory can be detached from strong ontologies of the insecure nation-state. This is the direction taken by much realist analysis critical of Israel and the Bush administration's 'war on terror'. Reframing such concerns in Foucauldian terms, we could argue that obsessive ontological commitments have led to especially disturbing 'problematizations' of truth. However such rationalist critiques rely on a one-sided interpretation of Clausewitz that seeks to disentangle strategic from existential reason, and to open up choice in that way. However without interrogating more deeply how they form a conceptual harmony in Clausewitz's thought -- and thus in our dominant understandings of politics and war -- tragically violent 'choices' will continue to be made. The essay concludes by pondering a normative problem that arises out of its analysis: if the divisive ontology of the national security state and the violent and instrumental vision of 'enframing' have, as Heidegger suggests, come to define being and drive 'out every other possibility of revealing being', how can they be escaped? How can other choices and alternatives be found and enacted? How is there any scope for agency and resistance in the face of them? Their social and discursive power -- one that aims to take up the entire space of the political -- needs to be respected and understood. However, we are far from powerless in the face of them. The need is to critique dominant images of political being and dominant ways of securing that being at the same time, and to act and choose such that we bring into the world a more sustainable, peaceful and non-violent global rule of the political.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Relying on the implicit threat of terrorism empowers the United States global strategy of conquest. This logic is self-defeating and justifies absolute control and scapegoating in order to protect the homeland</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Savoj Zizek</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> is a coked out madman and professor somewhere, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Give Iranian Nukes a Chance, http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/2280/) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Every power structure has to rely on an underlying implicit threat, i.e. whatever the oficial democratic rules and legal constraints may be, we can ultimately do whatever we want to you. In the 20th century, however, the nature of this link between power and the invisible threat that sustains it changed. Existing power structures no longer relied on their own fantasmatic projection of a potential, invisible threat in order to secure the hold over their subjects. Rather, the threat was externalized, displaced onto an Outside Enemy. It became the invisible (and, for that reason, all-powerful and omni-present) threat of this enemy that legitimized the existing power structure’s permanent state of emergency. Fascists invoked the threat of the Jewish conspiracy, Stalinists the threat of the class enemy, Americans the threat of Communism-all the way up to today’s “war on terror.” The threats posed by such an invisible enemy legitimizes the logic of the preemptive strike. Precisely because the threat is virtual, one cannot afford to wait for it to come. Rather, one must strike in advance, before it is too late. In other words, the omni-present invisible threat of Terror legitimizes the all too visible protective measures of defense-which, of course, are what pose the true threat to democracy and human rights (e.g., the London police’s recent execution of the innocent Brazilian electrician, Jean Charles de Menezes). Classic power functioned as a threat that operated precisely by never actualizing itself, by always remaining a threatening gesture. Such functioning reached its climax in the Cold War, when the threat of mutual nuclear destruction had to remain a threat. With the “war on terror”, the invisible threat causes the incessant actualization, not of the threat itself, but, of the measures against the threat. The nuclear strike had to remain the threat of a strike, while the threat of the terrorist strike triggers the endless series of preemptive strikes against potential terrorists. We are thus passing from the logic of MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction) to a logic in which ONE SOLE MADMAN runs the entire show and is allowed to enact its paranoia. The power that presents itself as always being under threat, living in mortal danger, and thus merely defending itself, is the most dangerous kind of power-the very model of the Nietzschean ressentiment and moralistic hypocrisy. And indeed, it was Nietzsche himself who, more than a century ago, in Daybreak, provided the best analysis of the false moral premises of today’s “war on terror”: No government admits any more that it keeps an army to satisfy occasionally the desire for conquest. Rather, the army is supposed to serve for defense, and one invokes the morality that approves of self-defense. But this implies one’s own morality and the neighbor’s immorality; for the neighbor must be thought of as eager to attack and conquer if our state must think of means of self-defense. Moreover, the reasons we give for requiring an army imply that our neighbor, who denies the desire for conquest just as much as our own state, and who, for his part, also keeps an army only for reasons of self-defense, is a hypocrite and a cunning criminal who would like nothing better than to overpower a harmless and awkward victim without any fight. Thus all states are now ranged against each other: they presuppose their neighbor’s bad disposition and their own good disposition. This presupposition, however, is inhumane, as bad as war and worse. At bottom, indeed, it is itself the challenge and the cause of wars, because as I have said, it attributes immorality to the neighbor and thus provokes a hostile disposition and act. We must abjure the doctrine of the army as a means of self-defense just as completely as the desire for conquests. Is not the ongoing “war on terror” proof that “terror” is the antagonistic Other of democracy-the point at which democracy’s plural options turn into a singular antagonism? Or, as we so often hear, “In the face of the terrorist threat, we must all come together and forget our petty differences.” More pointedly, the difference between the “war on terror” with previous 20th century worldwide struggles such as the Cold War is that the enemy used to be clearly identified with the actually existing Communist empire, whereas today the terrorist threat is inherently spectral, without a visible center. It is a little bit like the description of Linda Fiorentino’s character in The Last Seduction: “Most people have a dark side … she had nothing else.” Most regimes have a dark oppressive spectral side … the terrorist threat has nothing else. The paradoxical result of this spectralization of the enemy is an unexpected reflexive reversal. In this world without a clearly identified enemy, it is the United States, the protector against the threat, that is emerging as the main enemy-much like in Agatha Christie’s Murder on the Orient-Express, where, since the entire group of suspects is the murderer, the victim himself (an evil millionaire) turns out to be the real criminal.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This imperialism leads to extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Santos 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, director for center of social studies at University of Coimbra, “Collective Suicide?”, Bad Subjects #63, April, 2003, eserver.org/bs/63/santos.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">And now today, this is how it is in neoliberalism, with the collective sacrifice of the periphery and even the semiperiphery of the world system. With the war against Iraq, it is fitting to ask whether what is in progress is a new genocidal and sacrificial illusion, and what its scope might be. It is above all appropriate to ask if the new illusion will not herald the radicalization and the ultimate perversion of the Western illusion: destroying all of humanity in the illusion of saving it. Sacrificial genocide arises from a totalitarian illusion manifested in the belief that there are no alternatives to the present-day reality, and that the problems and difficulties confronting it arise from failing to take its logic of development to ultimate consequences. If there is unemployment, hunger and death in the Third World, this is not the result of market failures; instead, it is the outcome of market laws not having been fully applied. If there is terrorism, this is not due to the violence of the conditions that generate it; it is due, rather, to the fact that total violence has not been employed to physically eradicate all terrorists and potential terrorists. This political logic is based on the supposition of total power and knowledge, and on the radical rejection of alternatives; it is ultraconservative in that it aims to reproduce infinitely the status quo. Inherent to it is the notion of the end of history. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vote negative to take the position of </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">oppositional intellectuals. Our renunciation of the affirmative plan discloses the tie between Occidental thought and imperialism, opening up space to rethink thinking and to form a politics free from the affirmative’s imperial tendencies. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spanos 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (William, Prof of English and Comparative Literature at Binghamtom University, __America’s Shadow__, pg 204-206)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">In the face of this triumphalist ontological representation of the contemporary occasion – which is, to say, this astonishingly amnesiac historical memory – would not a “postcolonial” opposition be better served by discarding the worn-out, ontologically empty word “postmodernism”? Would it not, further, be preferable to undertake the postcolonial project by thinking the dangerous political occasion called “the New World Order” in the resonant spectral terms recalled by Derrida’s early effort to think the “ends of man” in the context of the Vietnam War? This, at any rate, is the suggestive oppositional project Derrida proposes in Specters of Marx, his most recent and most political repetition of the “Heideggerian” effort of ontological retrieval, in the wake of the dominant liberal/capitalist culture’s proclamation at the end of the Cold War of the death and burial of Marx and its euphoric announcement of the “gospel,” “the good news” that has been brought into being by the dialectical labor of History in the “fullness of time.” And, as I have suggested by pointing to its affiliation with Said’s invocation of the political émigré, it is a proposal that demands urgent attention. Indeed, it is the imperative of thinking in the interregnum, given the apparent indifference of postmodern/postcolonial criticism, which restricts its understanding of the new globalism to the untethered flow of transnational capital, to this other, equally pervasive, nationalist globalism, which represents the present post-Cold War moment not simply as the end of History, but as the triumph of “America” as well. If, as I have suggested, this alleged “good news” is understood, as I think it should be, as the triumphant annunciation of a fully realized and banalizing project of thinking, of an “advent,” as it were (the Pax Metaphysica), as well as the completed imperial and banalizing project of sociopolitics (the Pax Americana), then it becomes the task of a “postcolonial” opposition not simply to retrieve the differential event that the announcement of “good news” has had to obliterate in order to legitimize the planetary truth of liberal capitalist democracy. (It should not be overlooked that this end-of-history discourse repeats in thought the violence in practice to which the American officer in Vietnam synecdochically referred to when he declared that “[w]e had to destroy Ben Tre in order to save it.”) It also becomes a postcolonial opposition’s task to think that repressed event in terms of the implications of its persistent and anxiety provoking spectral afterlife for a way of thinking capable of disarticulating or molecularizing the inordinate positive power of the triumphant imperial discourse. It has not been my purpose in this book to undertake this rethinking of thinking, though I want to emphasize that what I have said in the preceding chapters makes it clear that this initiative would benefit by attuning itself to the de-structive (or decentering) project Heidegger inaugurated in Being and Time in the wake of the forgetting of the Seinsfrage (which is to say, of the closure of philosophy) and that Derrida and Foucault, in different ways, extended and modified. Finally, however, it is not so much to theory as such that the project to rethink thinking in the interregnum must look as it is to the violence of the history of the Occidental thought and practice I have retrieved. This history, bathed in innocent blood, emphatically suggests that such a thinking must take its point of departure from the self-de-struction of the discourse of Man in the Vietnam War – the event that synecdochically and decisively disclosed not only the essential complicity of Occidental thought with imperial practice, but also the essential affiliation between the dissemination inhering in its Word and the diasporic consequences of the fulfillment of its Word’s logic. To “repeat” my beginning after a long detour, it must take its positive point of departure from the negative force – the “decentered” or, in the allotropes of Edward Said and Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, the “unhoused” or “deterritorialized” or “diasporic” or “nomadic” energies – released into history as haunting specters by the fulfillment of this European Word’s reifying or spatial, which is to say, imperial, logic. This task reflects the poverty – the “damaged life” – of the exiled intellectual in the interregnum. Having learned from its fate at the hands of the colonial regime of truth, however, such a differential/exilic thinking of the Abgeschiedene, unlike the modes of opposition that sanguinely continue to think in the ontological terms prescribed by the master discourse, is not only enabled to refuse to play by the rules of its imperial logic, it is also enabled to transform the negative condition into a positive force of resistance. As I hope these chapters have shown, such a strategic “nomadic” thinking, more than any other that is currently available, will be adequate to the task of writing the history of the present and, though it may in the end be the same thing, of deterring liberal capitalist democracy and the Pax Americana. But, it needs to be underscored, the self-de-struction of the imperial truth discourse of the post-Enlightenment incumbent on the fulfillment of its ontologic should not be merely be thought in terms of resisting an oppressive and banalizing tradition. For this dis-closure of its plenary circle also and simultaneously releases pro-jective possibilities. To think positively the spectral Other that haunts Occidental thought – “the shadow that the light of Being has not been able to illumine,” in Enrique Dussel’s resonant formation – is, therefore, to open up the possibility of a different idea of the polis from that envisioned by the metaphysical (and Roman) West. It is, finally, to bring into being (to liberate) the thought of a differential polity, a polity in which the dialogue that is the essential condition of our mortal being-with takes place not in the seductive paradisal realm to which it has, in fact, been strategically confined by liberal democracy, but in this unequal world, where imbalance of power – and injustice – always rules. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Imperialism has constructed a universal narrative of violence that has subjected bodies to nationalism, imperialism and epistemological violence. A debate about epistemology allows us to determine the most education and productive forum for advocacy because analyzing history is critical to challenge exclusion and imperialism </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Trofanenko, ‘5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Brenda, Professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction at the University of Illinois, //The Social Studies//, Sept/Oct]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The debates about the overwhelming problems, limitations, and disadvantages of social studies education noted in the Fordham report attempts to reconcile and advance the idea of nation through a collective history. Our more pressing role as educators, in light of the Fordham report, is to discuss a more nuanced understanding of the U.S. history. This would advance, as noted in La Pietra Report, an understanding about “the complexity and the contexts of relations and interactions, including the ways in which they are infused with a variety of forms of power that define and result from the interconnections of distinct but related histories” (OAH 2000, 1). Taking the U.S. nation as only one example of social analysis involves recognizing the meanings and conditions out of which nations are formed. There is no one experience of belonging to a nation, no single understanding or enactment of sovereignty, and certainly no one meaning or experience of colonization or being colonized. There is, then, a need for these issues to be realized and to be a part of the questioning occurring within our classrooms. That would allow for the substantial reframing of the basic narrative of U.S. history (OAH 2000, 2).Toward a More Global Sense of the NationKnowing how history is a site of political struggle, how we engage in social studies education means emphasizing how power, processes, and practiced bear tangible effects on forging a national (and common) history by reproducing and vindicating inclusions and exclusions. Such a critique requires questioning how a singular, fixed, and static history celebrates the U.S. nation and its place in the world as that “common base of factual information about the American historical and contemporary experience” (27) argues for in the Fordham report. Our world history courses are central to defining, understanding, and knowing not only other nations but also the position of each nation in relation to the United States.The centrality that the west holds (notably the United States as an imperial power) is ingrained and willful in framing specific representations of the west that normalize the imperial practices that established this nation. The role that the United States holds on the world stage frequently remains unquestioned in social studies classrooms. Certainly, we engage with various images and tropes to continue to advance how the colonialist past continues to remain present in our historical sensibilities. Moreover, the increasing number and choices of archival sources function as a complement to further understanding the nation. If students are left to rely on the variety of historical resources rather than question the uses of such resources, then the most likely outcome of their learning will be the reflection on the past with nostalgia that continues to celebrate myths and colonial sensibility. To evaluate the history narrative now is to reconsider what it means and to develop a historical consciousness in our students that goes beyond archival and nostalgic impulses associated with the formation of the nation and U.S. nation building. We need to insist that the nation, and the past that has contributed to its present day understanding, is simultaneously material and symbolic.The nation as advanced in our histories cannot be taken as the foundational grounds. The means by which the nation is fashioned calls for examining the history through which nations are made and unmade. To admit the participatory nature of knowledge and to invite an active and critical engagement with the world so that students can come to question the authority of historical texts will, I hope, result in students’ realizing that the classroom is not solely a place to learn about the nation and being a national, but rather a place to develop a common understanding of how a nation is often formed through sameness. We need to continue to question how a particular national history is necessary as an educational function, but especially how that element has been, and remains, useful at specific times.My hope is to extend the current critique of history within social studies, to move toward understanding why history and nation still needs a place in social studies education. In understanding how the historicity of nation serves as “the ideological alibi of the territorial state” (Appadurai 1996, 159) offers us a starting point. The challenge facing social studies educators is how we can succeed in questioning nation, not by displacing it from center stage but by considering how it is central. That means understanding how powerfully engrained the history of a nation is within education and how a significant amount of learning is centered around the nation and its history. History is a forum for assessing and understanding the study of change over time, which shapes the possibilities of knowledge itself. We need to reconsider the mechanisms used in our teaching, which need to be more than considering history as a nostalgic reminiscence of the time when the nation was formed. We need to be questioning the contexts for learning that can no longer be normalized through history’s constituted purpose. The changing political and social contexts of public history have brought new opportunities for educators to work through the tensions facing social studies education and its educational value to teachers and students. Increasing concerns with issues of racism, equality, and the plurality of identities and histories mean there is no unified knowledge as the result of history, only contested subjects whose multilayered and often contradictory voices and experiences intermingle with partial histories that are presented as unified. This does not represent a problem, but rather an opportunity for genuine productive study, discussion, and learning.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]