[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 1.1em;">1AC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 1.1em;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure by investing in enhanced detection for chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons at US ports.**
----
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Weston-Inherency]]Inherency</span>=== 
**Congress will not act to improve port security now**
**Stamford Advocate**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(May 9, “Maritime Industry Awaits Action in Congress”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/article/Martime-industry-awaits-action-in-Congress-3544112.php]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The maritime businesses should not … action on maritime-related legislation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Entry through US ports is easy now – screening is inadequate</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jim **Kouri**, Vice President of the National Association of Chiefs of Police, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(CPP, February 22, U.S. bound cargo remains vulnerable to terrorists, WMD <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/u-s-bound-cargo-remains-vulnerable-to-terrorists-wmd]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It may seem unbelievable to … in the U.S. and Europe. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less than 3% of cargo entering US ports is scanned</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Janice **Hahn**, US Representative, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://hahn.house.gov/press-release/rep-hahn-congressional-leader-ports-wins-passage-port-security-amendment]]</span>, May 9, “Rep. Hahn - Congressional Leader on Ports - Wins Passage of Port Security Amendment”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unfortunately less than 3% of … of hundreds of local businesses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Department of Homeland Security is not scanning containers </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Laura **Richardson**, US Representative (D-CA), **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Congressional Documents and Publications, May 9, Congresswoman <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]</span>Asks GAO to Examine Port Security Vulnerabilities; Rep. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]</span>News Release)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Today, Congresswoman <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]</span>submitted … security gaps that currently exist."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Customs-Trade Partnership and Container Security Initiative fail </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Compliance is the weaker link … individual companies shipping the goods.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Port security isn’t getting funding</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jesse **Hereford**, Vice Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(May 1, “House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Hearing; "Using Technology to Facilitate Trade and Enhance Security at Our Ports of Entry." <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://homeland.house.gov/sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20-%20Hereford.pdf|p://homeland.house.gov/sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20-%20Hereford.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In port security, much like … dwindling human and technological resources. </span>
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Weston-Terror]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terror</span></span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The risk of a terror attack involving weapons of mass destruction is increasing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert **Galluci**, President, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(April 5, Huffington Post, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-gallucci/nuclear-terrorism_b_1406712.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We should all be concerned … certainty than a nuclear weapon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists can use ports as weapons conduits</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** and Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The need to secure ports … arsenal within the nation’s borders.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of security means terrorists could detonate a weapon of mass destruction – WMD – in a US port</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The disruption of port operations … loss and/or loss of life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WMDs can be moved through shipping containers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Containers provide terrorist a method … them to execute malicious intentions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An Improvised Explosive Device (IED) attack on a port will directly shut it down</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The second scenario considered localized … inducing fear in its customers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Use of WMD in a port will destroy nearby population centers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beyond their economic role, the … as airports and highway networks.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A successful nuclear terrorist attack would cause a police state </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mohamed **Sid-Ahmed**, Al-Ahram Weekly political analyst, **2004** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Al-Ahram Weekly, "Extinction!" 8/26, no. 705, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What would be the consequences … if humankind is to survive.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorist attack sparks global depression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard **Haas**, President, Council on Foreign Relations, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(PREVENTING CATASTROPHIC NUCLEAR TERRORISM, March,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/content/-publications/attachments/NucTerrCSR.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A nuclear attack by terrorists … major gaps in policy remain.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any nuclear attack would devastate the global economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Matthew C. **Weinzierl**, Council of Economic Advisers Economist, **2004**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The National Interest, "The Cost of Living: The Economics of Preventing Nuclear Terrorism," Spring, LN)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terrorism presents an unparalleled … is more urgent and frightening.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seaports are terrorist targets, attacks disrupt the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Temporarily shutting down a major … desirable and effective for terrorists.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An attack on the LA-Long Beach ports would disrupt the US economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combined, the complex is the … could disrupt the U.S. economy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even a small nuclear attack would instantly collapse the economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John Kenneth **Galbraith**, Harvard Economics Prof, **2000**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(“Economic Aspects,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/legal/nwc/mon1galb.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Such is the vulnerability of … of one small nuclear weapon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retaliation means terror attack causes extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Greg **Easterbrook**, senior editor with The New Republic, **2001**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(November, p. www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0111/01/gal.00.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists may not be held … in a dozen Muslim countries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact of a terror attack means the risk cannot be dismissed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Virginia Pilot**, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(February 5, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-%E2%80%98boom-box%E2%80%99]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They look harmless enough. And … that came through Hampton Roads.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This attack will be nuclear-secret documents prove terrorists have the necessary material</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Graham **Allison**, Prof @ Harvard, **2010**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Foreign Policy, A Failure to Imagine the Worst, 25 January,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S. national security establishment's … U.S. borders illegally last year.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Regional Al Qaeda affiliates are growing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rick **Nelson**, CSIS, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Confronting and Uncertain Threat: The Future of Al Qaeda and its Associated Movements, September 7,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://csis.org/publication/confronting-uncertain-threat]]</span>, p. X)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al Qaeda and associated movements … individuals based in the West.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Demographic trends indicate the terror threat will grow</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rick **Nelson**, CSIS, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Confronting and Uncertain Threat: The Future of Al Qaeda and its Associated Movements, September 7,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://csis.org/publication/confronting-uncertain-threat]]</span>, p. X)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to a CSIS study … potential exists for AQAM infiltration.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists being released from jails, anti-US sentiment still strong, radicalization due to moderates selling out</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daniel L. **Byman**, Director of Research, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/saban.aspx|Saban Center for Middle East Policy]]</span>, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(September 1,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2011/0901_al_qaeda_byman.aspx]]</span> Al Qaeda’s Future: How Likely is Another Attack?)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fortunately for Zawahiri, the operating <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.almasryalyoum.com/en/node/484767|… made and will make again]]</span>. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al Qaeda is still a threat – Complacency about Osama’s death increases the risk al Qaeda will rebound</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Max **Boot**, National Security at CFR, **2011** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Max, August 8, “A False Sense of National Security” Los Angeles Times, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/national-security-and-defense/false-sense-national-security%29|http://www.cfr.org/national-security-and-defense/false-sense-national-security)]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. government officials are probably … or later they may succeed.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Weston-Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US needs to increase funding and support for port security</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, the U.S. government should … need maintenance, repair, and upgrading. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increasing investment will protect ports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wendy **Keefer**, Lawyer at Keefer and Keefer, **2008** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect The Homeland and The International Supply Chain; CAMPBELL LAW REVIEW Vol. 30:139; <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://law.campbell.edu/lawreview/articles/30-1-139.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Priority should be given to … focus on technology is appropriate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Improved sensor placement solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James** **et** **al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Several studies have examined the … the container to be effective.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All ports should be equipped with nuclear and radiation detection devices</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CBP works closely with … the nuclear and radioactive detectors.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Improving port security infrastructure deters terror attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The objective of deterrence has … an effective manifest screening process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New advances in screening technology means no delays</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jerrold L. **Nadler**, Edward J. **Markey and** Bennie G. **Thompson**, Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse; June 26, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Homeland Security says it uses … no longer risk such delays.</span>
=Negative= 
==Port Security BDL== 
==Harms== 
===**Econonmy Add-on Answers**=== 
**The costs of an attack would be a drop in the bucket compared to the size of the US economy**
Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**
(Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

In the scenario of a ... an attack do seem small.

**The economy will adapt to closed ports**
Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**
(Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

The more sanguine estimate of ... such as a closed port.

**Redundancies and contingencies reduce disruption impacts**
Edward E. **Leamer and** Christopher **Thornberg**, professor of statistics at UCLA and senior economist with the UCLA
Anderson Forecast, **2006.**
(UCLA Anderson Forecast, Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs,
www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

Of course, a labor action ... that loomed in the 1960s.

**Other Sectors offset**
Edward E. **Leamer and** Christopher **Thornberg**, professor of statistics at UCLA and senior economist with the UCLA
Anderson Forecast, **2006.**
(UCLA Anderson Forecast, Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs,
www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

Our results do not say ... than in imports and exports.

==**On Case**== 
===**Low Risk of Port Terrorism**=== 
**Risks decreasing, alternative transportation methods solve, catastrophic impacts empirically denied.**
Edward E. **Leamer and** Christopher **Thornberg**, professor of statistics at UCLA and senior economist with the UCLA
Anderson Forecast, **2006.**
(UCLA Anderson Forecast, Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs,
www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

Although the United States is ... and in some cases nonexistent.

**Only a 1 in 80,000 chance of being killed by a terrorist**
**The New Republic, 2008**
(December 24, p. 22)

As a result of this ... is just one in 80,000.

**Terrorism is not an existential threat**
**The New Republic, 2008**
(December 24, p. 22)

Last March he declared that ... belts instead of chasing terrorists.

===Al Qaeda Threat Decreasing=== 
**Al Qaeda has alienated it's supporters**
Bruce **Riedel**, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, **2011**
(How the United States Enable Al Qaeda, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/-2011/0905_al_qaeda_911_riedel.aspx)

But al Qaeda also made ... by drowning them in blood.

**Al Qaeda no longer capable of large scale attacks**
Brian Michael **Jenkins**, senior adviser to the president of the RAND Corporation, **2011**
(The Long Shadow of 9/11: America's Response to Terrorism, Ed. Bruce Michael Jenkins and Paul Hodges, p. 4)

There is consensus in this ... reduced, if not eliminated entirely.

**Military and police security measures have decimated Al Qaeda**
Brian Michael **Jenkins**, senior adviser to the president of the RAND Corporation, **2011**
(The Long Shadow of 9/11: America's Response to Terrorism, Ed. Bruce Michael Jenkins and Paul Hodges, p. 4)

The United Sates cannot prevent ... services and law enforcement organizations.

===No WMD Terrorism=== 
**No nuclear terror -- terrorists cant acquire, build, or deliver a bomb**
Steve **Chapman**, reporter and editorial writer for Chicago Tribune, **2012**
(RealClearPolitics, "The Implausibility of Nuclear Terrorism",
http://reason.com/archives/2012/05/17/the-implausiblility-of-nuclear-terrorism)

But remember: After Sept. 11 ... back out or screw up.

**The risk of nuclear terrorism is low -- it is too expensive for terrorist organizations**
John **Mueller**, department of political science at Ohio State University, **2008**
(1/1/2008, The Atomic Terrorist, p. http://polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/APSACHGO.PDF)

Assessing the financial cost. This ... or kill the scheming perpetrators.

**No risk of nuclear terrorism**
Jason **Sigger**, Defense Policy Analyst focusing on Chemical, Biological, and Nuclear defense issues, **2010**
("Terrorism Experts Can Be Alarmists, Too", http://armchairgeneralist.typepad.com/my_weblog/-2010/01/terrorism-experts-can-be-alarmists-too-1.html)

You find the famous bin ... United Sates with WMD capabilities.

===**No Solvency -- Detection**=== 
**No solvency for port shut-downs: if a WMD is detected, the port will be shut-down**
**Lt. Morgan James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**
(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)

A detection or activation of ... damage in the importing country.

**Detection devices don't solve direct ship attacks**
**Lt. Morgan James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**
(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)

The first scenario considered small ... from the explosive-laden boats.

**Bad weather undermines security sensors**
**Lt. Morgan James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**
(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)

Weather also determines the effectiveness ... profile of the security personnel.

**Explosives can be divided, making detection impossible**
**Lt. Morgan James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**
(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)

The first scenario considers an ... substantial destruction to the port.

===**No Solvency -- Delays Turn**=== 
**Enhanced port security leads to serious delays in shipping that harm the economy and national security**
**Conrad et al**, Sandia National Laboratories, **2003**
(Stephen Conrad, Walter Beyeler, Richard Thomas, Thomas Corbet, Theresa Brown, Gary Hirsch, and Christopher Hatzi, How Do We INcrease Port Security Without Imperiling Maritime Commerce? Using Flight Simulators and Workshops to Begin the Discussion,
http://www.garybhirsch.com/industry_files/A-port-paper.pdf

Especially since the events of ...alternatives on these diverse interests.

===No Solvency -- Delays Turn -- Link Extension=== 
**Enhanced port security leads to delays in shipping, undermining the economy**
**Lt. Morgan James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**
(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)

The port operators are primarily ... severely disrupting normal port operations.

===Spending Link=== 
**Enhanced port security would cost billions**
**ABC News 2006**
(How Much Is Too Much for Port Security? , Z. BYRON WOLF
Sept. 13, 2006, http://abcnew.go.com/US/Politics/story?id=2425748&page=1#.UATHLxxrP7p)

Then he implied the same ... liberties while trying to protect them."

===**States Counterplan Solvency**=== 
**State, local, and private entities own the ports -- they are the correct ones to do the plan**
**American Society of Civil Engineers, 2009**
(Report Card of America's Infrastructure http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/sites/default/files/RC2009_full_report.pdf)

Due to lack of adequate ... infrastructure to the federal government.

===Topicality -- Infrastructure=== 
**"Port Security" includes more than port infrastructure**
Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**
(Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

Each container trip to the ... represent vulnerability in the system.

**Port Security is not infrastructure**
Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**
(Protecting the Nation's Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)

There is no way to ... new inspection and tracking technologies.
==Mass Transit BDL== 
===Answers to: Urban Sprawl Add-On=== 
**There are many other causes besides transportation infrastructure**
Dee **Striker**, writer for the San Francisco Chronicle, **2007**
("What are the Causes of Urban Sprawl", http://homeguides.sfgate.com/causes-urban-sprawl-2577.html)

Urban sprawl is loosely defined ... in more crowded city centers.

**Mass Transit programs increase urban sprawl by allowing people to easily commute into the city**
Edward L. **Glaeser,** economics professor at Harvard, **2009**
("What Would High-Speed Rail Do To Suburban Sprawl?",
http://www.lawrence.edu/fast/finklerm/Glaeser%20on%20High%20Speed%20Rail.doc)

But there is little evidence ... be more, not less, sprawl.

**Instead of increasing centralization, mass transit increase emigration out of the city by allowing for short commutes**
Jason **Kambitsis,** city planner and contributing editor for Wired.com, **2010**
(Wired, "High-Speed Rail as a Conduit of Sprawl", http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/03/high-speed-rail-and-sprawl/)

It's fast, it's efficient and ... creating denser, more sustainable communities.

===Answers to: Air Pollution Add-On=== 
**Mass transit results in more, not less emissions**
Randal **O'Toole,** senior fellow at the Cato Institute, **2009**
(Congressional Testimony, "On Transit and Climate", http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-ro-20090707.html)

Transit Is Not Significantly Cleaner ... than large investments in transit.

===Answers to: Obesity Add-On=== 
**The harms of obesity are massively overblown -- there's no scientific basis for their claims**
Patrick **Basham and** John **Luik,** Director -- Democracy Institute, Health Policy Writer, **2006**
("Four Big, Fat Myths", The Telegraph, 11-26, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/1535176/Four-big,-fat-myth.html)

Yet the obesity epidemic is ... as well as eating disorders.

**Obesity is a tiny health risk -- their evidence is biased exaggeration**
**Center for Consumer Freedom 2008**
("CDC Must Retract Obesity Deaths Study", http://ww.consumerfreedom.com/article_detail.cfm/article/161?nd=1)

In the past few years ... on foods they don't like.

===Answers to: Car Accidents Add-On=== 
**New car technology proves trend towards safety measures to prevent car accidents**
**Washington Times, 2012**
(June 10, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jun/10/safety-measure-lets-cars-talk-to-each-other-to-avo/)

It's also possible for connected ... technology solutions to transportation problems.

**2010 was an all-time low for car fatalities**
**National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 2012**
(February 9, www.nhtsa.gov/staticfiles/administration/pdf/Budgets/FY-2013_Budget_Highways.pdf)

In 2010, the number of ... Policy Proposal for Surface Transportation.

===No Harms -- Segregation Declining=== 
**Racial segregation has been reduced**
Lingqian **Hu**, assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, **2010**
(May 2010, "Urban Spatial Transformation and Job Accessibility: Spacial Mismatch Hypothesis Revisited," Google Scholar.
http://digitallibrary.usc.edu/assetserver/controller/item/etd-Hu-3392.pdf)

During the last several decades ... which aim to reduce poverty.

**The most recent studies indicate that segregation is declining in the US**
David **Ariosto,** staff writer at CNN, **2012**
(Study: Segregation in U.S. on decline, but disparities persist,
http://articles.cnn.com/2012-01-31/us/us_segregation-decline-study_1_segregation-jacob-vigdor-neighborhoods?_s=PM:US)

Segregation of African-Americans in cities ... York-based conservative think tank.

===**No Harms -- Car Focus is Declining**=== 
**People are moving back into the cities now due to high transportation costs**
Judson **Kidd**, real estate advisor at Caldwell Banker, **2012**
("The Re-Urbanization of Atlanta" May 6th 2012 Coldwell Banker NRT Development Advisors)

The Unites States Census Bureau ... trend is likely to continue.

===No Harms -- Poverty=== 
**Lack of education is the main cause of poverty, not transportation**
Blake **Bailey,** National Center for Policy Analysis, **2003**
("How to Not Be Poor," Jan 15, http://www.ncpa.org/pub/ba428/)

Furthermore, these lower propensities for ... school are poor long-term.

===No Solvency -- Social Inequality=== 
**Turn- Mass Transit fees reduce social welfare- empirically proven**
**Winston, Maheshri, 2006** -- Brookings Institution, U.C. Berkely (Clifford, Vikram, "On the Social Desirability of Urban Rail Transits, "
Brookings Institution, 08/3/06, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2006/8/rail%20systems%20winston/08_rail_
systems_winston.pdf)//AX//

//The evolution of urban rail ... rail's social cost will abate.// 

//**Turn- promoting Mass Transit as the answer to Social Inequality only hurts social welfare- it empirically won't help but will prevent real solutions**//
//**Winston, Maheshri, 2006** -- Brookings Institution, U.C. Berkely (Clifford, Vikram, "On the Social Desirability of Urban Rail Transits, "//
//Brookings Institution, 08/3/06, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2006/8/rail%20systems%20winston/08_rail_//
//systems_winston.pdf)//AX

Could any system be transformed ... increasing drain on social welfare.

**The problem with racism and poverty is not mobility rather its residential segregation**
**Turner at al** **2009** (Margery Austin Turner, Vice President for Research at the urban Institute, where she leads efforts to frame and conduct a forward-looking agenda of policy research and Karina Fortuny. Researcher at the Urban Institue, "Residential Segregation and Low-Income Working Families", February 2009, DM)

Segregated housing patterns not only ... disadvantage in today's labor market.

===No Solvency -- Car Culture=== 
**Car culture is too essential to our society -- alternatives won't be taken seriously**
Phillip J **Vergragt,** Visiting Scholar at MIT, **2004**
(Management for Sustainable Personal Mobility: The Case of Hydrogen Fuel Cells" Autumn 2004)

So far, each of these ... parking fees and congestion charges.

**There won't be a transition away from cars -- The love of the car prevents people from seeing any problems**
Robert **Creighton,** MA student at The New School for Public Engagement, **2005**
("Absence of Motion: Stillness in Cars" Project Thesis for the Master of Arts in Media Studies New School University)

Automobiles have played an essential ... automobile is still so strong.

===No Solvency -- No Riders=== 
**No one will use mass transit -- Europe Proves**
Robert **Utt,** Ph.D., is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, **2011**
("Time to End Obama's Costly High-Speed Rail Program," 2/11,
http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/02/time-to-end-obamas-costly-high-speed-rail-program)

If one's knowledge of European ... taxi to their final destination.

**Only works in urban areas with lots of jobs- most of the country won't use it**
**O'Toole 2010** - senior fellow at the Cato Institute (Randal, "Fixing Transit The Case for Privatization", 11/10,
http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/PA670.pdf)

At best, all this money ... to 1.8 percent in 2008.

**Mass transit fails -- people empirically won't use it even if it is funded.**
**Wall Street Journal, 2012** -- editorial ("Why Your Highway Has Potholes, "4/15,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303815404577333631864470566.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEADTop

Since 1982 government mass-transit ... are close to break-even.

**Infrastructure alone does not solve**
Miles **Tight and** Moshe **Giovoni 2010**
(The Role of Walking and Cycling in Advancing Healthy and Sustainable Urban Areas" BUILT ENVIRONMENT VOL 36 NO 4)

Sustainable mobility is the new ... simple question of infrastructure provision.

**No one will use it- only 10% of jobs are near mass transit**
**O'Toole, 2011** - senior fellow at the Cato Institute (Randal, "Transportation: From the TOp Down or Bottom Up?, "5/25,
http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/transportation-top-down-or-bottom)

Central planners' fascination with trains ... with 13.2 percent in Chicago.

===No Solvency -- Not Sustainable=== 
**Mass Transit isn't economically sustainable and will collapse**
**O'Toole, 2008** - senior fellow at the Cato Institute (Randal, "Light-Rail Systems Are a False Promise," 9/16,
http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/lightrail-systems-are-false-promise

Rail transit has become such ... not be complete until 2034.

===Road Focus Better -- Automobile Industry=== 
**Automobile dependency is key for boosting the economy**
Todd **Litman and** Felix **Laube,** founder and executive director of the Victoria Transport Police, **2012**
("Automobile Dependency and Economic Development", www.vtpi.org/ecodev.pdf)

Automobile dependency has various impacts ... a given level of services.

===Road Focus Better -- Jobs=== 
**The automobile industry is key to providing jobs, nearly 10% of recent jobs were directly created through the automobile industry**
Adam **Hersh and** //Jane// **Farrell,** //an economist at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, Special Assistant for Economic Policy//
//at CAPAF,_//**2012** (Auto Industry Provides Bright Spot In Jobs Report, Proving Again That Letting It Fail Would Have Been The Wrong Course
, http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/04/06/459857/auto-industry-bright-spot/ April 6th 2012)

Today's jobs report from the ... would have disappeared as well.

===Road Focus Better -- Economy Impact=== 
**Economic collapse leads to poverty and unemployment**
**Sharing for Success 2012**
(Sharing For Success, "Lack of Jobs in Georgia Leads to Increase in Poverty",
http://job-library.classfields1000.com/poverty/20111104- 154315-Lack-of-Jobs-in-Georgia-Leads-to-Increase-in-Poverty)

I know, the title seems ... jobs, and needs them now.

===Road Focus Better- Answer to: No Trade- Off=== 
**Increasing funding for mass transit directly trades off with funding for highways**
Gerald E **Frug**, Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law at Harvard University, **1998**
("CITY SERVICES", LexisNexis, 4/98)

Highway maintenance also raises broader ... pollution throughout the metropolitan area.

===Road Focus Better -- Answers to: Highways Declining Now=== 
**US infrastructure is strong now**
Charles **Lane,** Washington Post editor, **2011**
(Charles, "The U.S. infrastructure argument that crumbles upon examination", 10-31,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-us-infrastructure-argument-that-crumbles-upon-examination/2011/10/31/gIQAnILRaM_story.html)

So how come my family ... the mark was D-plus.

===**Crime Turn**=== 
**Mass transit attracts increased crime**
Gary **Stroller,** reporter for USA Today, **2011**
("US: Crime Lurks Outside Airports, Rail Stations", Mass Transit Magazine, 7/12/11,
http://www.masstransitmag.com/news/10295844/us-crime-lurks-outside-airports-rail-stations)//LP

The CAP Index study finds ... at California State University-Northridge.

**Crime causes long term psychological impacts to the victims, causing more poverty.**
Scott **Erickson,** MS in Criminal Justice Studies, **2012**
(February 12, http://dailycaller/com/2010/02/19/the-financial-impact-of-crime/#ixzz22ADB7rw1 )

Intangible costs associated to crime ... that crime places upon society.

===Crime Turn -- Impact Extension=== 
**Crime costs society over $130 billion each year.**
Scott **Erickson,** MS in Criminal Justice Studies, **2012**
(February 12, http://dailycaller.com/2010/02/19/the-financial-impact-of-crime/#ixzz22ADB7rw1 )

Seeking to more accurately account ... alone at over $130 billion.

===Gentrification Turn=== 
**An investment in mass transit will contribute to a greater gentrification as it causes people to move from the suburbs to the cities inevitably rising house prices**
Gerg **St. Martin,** Writer for Coalition on Sustainable Transportation, **2010**
(New Transit May Cause Unintended Gentrification, http://www.costaustin.org/jskaggs/?p=1333)

A Northeastern report warns of ... new affordable housing, researchers said.

**An increase in house prices will cause reinforce segregation and force people who can't afford to pay increased rents out of their own neighborhoods**
Thomas W. **Sanchez et al,** an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech, **2003** (Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy and Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, "Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities")

Another housing-related impact of ... investments on gentrification and displacement.

===Gentrification Turn -- Link Extension=== 
**New public transit projects increase gentrification, pricing people out of their own neighborhoods**
Andrew **Nusca,** editor of SmartPlanet, **2010**
(New public transit encourages gentrification, lowers ridership, study says, October 22,
http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/smart-takes/new-public-transit-encourages-gentrification-lowers-ridership-study-says/11832)

If you were to extend ... to serve them the most.

===Spending Link=== 
**Urban transit funds are so wasteful and cost billions- the economic payoff is marginal because the benefits are so localized**
Randal **O'Toole,** Cato Analyst, **2012**
(CATO INSTITUTE, "Urban Transit", June 2010, http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/urban-transit)

The Department of Transportation's Federal ... transit makes little economic sense.

**Plan would cost a LOT of money**
**Fitzgerald et.al. 2010**- professor and director of the graduate program in Law, Policy and Society and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kitty and Michael Kukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy at Northeastern University (Joan, Granquist, Khatiwada, McLaughlin, Renner, "Reviving the U.S. Rail and Transit INdustry: Investments and Job Creation", WorldWatch Institute)//AWV

The Federal Transportation Administration's 2010 ... would require even further investments.

**Mass Transit is expensive, it costs over $125,000 per passenger!**
**Financial God, 2012**
(Financial God "Cars Are the Mass-Transit Solution of the Future", http://www.financialgod.com/cars-are-the-mass-transit-solution-of-the-future/ DM)

Public agency corruption Mass Transit ... really make sense, like Manhattan.

===Federalism Link=== 
**Federal involvement in mass transit would be a deep blow to federalism**
Samual **Staley,** senior research fellow with the Reason Foundation, associate director of the DeVoe L Moore Center at Florida State University, **2009** (11-16-09, "Federal Takeover of Subways: Another Blow to Federalism," http://reason.org/blog/show/federal-takeover-of-subways-an)

The Federal government's approach to ... embedded in the U.S. Constitution.

**States are much more important to mass transit funding now**
**Gordon, 2011** -- Economist Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, "Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States", Boston College Economics Honor's Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 23-24, 3-23-11)//AWV

Hess and Lombardi first provide ... and will become more relevant.

===States CP Solvency=== 
**State funding is more efficient**
**Gordon** **2011** -- Economist Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, "Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States", Boston College Economics Honor's Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 23-24, 3-23-11)//AWV//

//In spite of the large ... not undertake these projects otherwise.// 

//**Federal funding is inefficient**//
//**Gordon** **2011** -- Economist Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, "Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States", Boston College Economics Honor's Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 23-24, 3-23-11)//AWV

Including only total capital funding ... urban mass transit agency deficits.

**States comparatively better for mass transit funding**
**Gordon** **2011** -- Economist Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, "Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States", Boston College Economics Honor's Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 23-24, 3-23-11)//AWV

However, the federal government should ... funding reduces the deficit effectively.

===Capitalism Link=== 
**Public Transportation will be implemented to serve capitalist interests and widen inequality**
**Farmer 2011** Farmer Sociology Dep't Roosevelt University 2011 Stephanie Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA Environment and Planning http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf,KB

Public transportation policy is one ... from accessing the transit service.

===Russian Oil Links=== 
**The current roads focus in transportation policy exacerbates oil dependence**
**Sandalow, 2007** - David Sandalow is Energy and Environment Scholar at The Brookings Institution ("Ending Oil Dependence", 1/22,
http://www.brookings.edu/views/papers/fellows/sandalow20070122.pdf)

Americans are driving more and ... for highways than mass transit.

**Federal support for mass transit is vital to shifting away from new road construction -- it's vital to substantially decreasing oil dependence**
**Nelder, 2009** - Chris Nelder is an energy analyst and consultant who has written about energy and investing for more than a decade ("Is Obama's Infrastructure Plan Built to Last?, "Energy & Capital, 1/14, http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/.obama-infrastructure-energy/813)//DH

It is abundantly clear to ... the next time oil spikes.

===Taxes DA=== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]