[[toc]]
=Round 1 Neg. vs GBN (Banks w/ clean tech)= 

1NC Nietzsche, Eco-security, more nietzsche on case

2NC- Nietzsche
1NR eco-security
2NR eco-security

**1NC Nietzsche**
Attempts to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and avoid suffering require the construction of an ideal world toward which our apparent world aspires. Suffering and antagonism are inevitable aspects of human existence and their focus on the elimination of difference codifies a constant state of emergency into politics.
Saurette 1996 (Paul, Prof of Political Studies @ UOttawa, “I Mistrust All Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt, and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory” Millenium 25.1)

According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation of a society is the set of ideas
AND
transformation, the Will to Order becomes the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.

We are forced to obfuscate our joy in the present world in the hopes of reaching the world of our ideals – this is the only world we’ve got and their direction of hatred against it produces creative impotence and infinite resentment.
Turanli 2003 (Aydan, Prof of Humanities and Soc Sciences @ Istanbul Technical Institute, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 26) Tyler

The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics. Unlike Wittgenstein, Nietzsche
AND
the way out of the fly-bottle" (PI §309).

Vote negative to renounce the affirmative for its participation in and deployment of memory. The call to forget suffering opens up the only space possible for action freed from the specter of constant anxiety.
Zupancic 2003 (Alenka, Researcher at the Institute of philosophy @ U of Ljubljana, The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two, p. 56-60)

There is also an important difference between forgiving and (what Nietzsche calls) forgetting
AND
to us, or everything we do, has to be registered somewhere.

**1NC Eco-Sec**

The aff’s representation of environmental apocalypse enables authoritarianism.
Buell 3 (Frederick Buell, Professor of English - Cornell, From Apocalypse to Way of Life. p. 200-2)

Elaborating crisis is thus not only hard to do but can also perhaps never really
AND
give up, or even cut off ties to clearly terminal “nature.”

Apocalyptic discourse is co-opted to justify massive violence.
Coviello 2k (Peter, Asst. Prof. English @ Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On)

Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not
AND
or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

The application of the state of exception to the environment depoliticizes all ecological politics by obfuscating the socio-political root of environmental problems and reducing sustainability to a mere question of implementation
Smith 2011 (Mick, Department of Philosophy and School of Environmental Studies, “Against ecological sovereignty: Agamben, politics and globalization,” Environmental Politics 18, no. 1, http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/fenp20)
The implications of these apparently disparate responses to ecological¶ aspects of globalisation are worth
AND
legacy of hegemonic¶ post-politics’ (2002, p. 136).

No turns – their “green ideology” is token gesturism that undermines broader ecological movements.
Hay 94 (Colin Hay, Department Head of Political Science and international Studies at the University of Birmingham, “Environmental Security and State Legitimacy,” in Capital Nature Socialism (CNS), March, p. 86-90)

The increased openness of the global economy, for example, undermines the demand-
AND
conservative estimate needed to even begin to address Third World environmental crisis.14

Thus, the alternative is to advocate a radically decentralized ecological politics – any ecological strategy grounded in the primacy of the sovereign nation-state must prefigure environmental struggles through the lens of economic utility rather than sustainability
Smith 2011 (Mick, Department of Philosophy and School of Environmental Studies, “Against ecological sovereignty: Agamben, politics and globalization,” Environmental Politics 18, no. 1, http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/fenp20)
What then are we to conclude from this analysis? Certainly, from the point
AND
inhabitants with the constitutional power of the state to suspend¶ such politics.

**1NC Case**
The affirmative’s attempt to preserve a harmonic biosphere places a glass coffin over life transforming it into a state of ongoing death—it is precisely the impulse to remove danger which is what has precipitated ecological collapse in the first place
Jean Baudrillard, Sociology—Université de Paris-IX Dauphine, 1994
The Illusion of the End p. 85-88

The finest example of what the human species is capable of inflicting upon itself is
AND
if it rescues us from a scientific euphoria sustained by drip-feed.




=Round 2 Aff vs Kinkaid (broke Heidegger)= 
**1AC**

**Contention One is Building**
The etymological heart of the resolution brings us at once to the question of building; “infra” from the prefix meaning below or inferior to, “structure” from the participle of the Latin struere, to build, pile, assemble. But what does it mean to build? And how might building belong to dwelling?
Martin Heidegger writes in 1951:

“First, what does it mean to dwell. Second, how does building
AND
, dwelling in the sense of the stay of mortals on the earth.
Heidegger 1951 (Martin, phenomenologist, “Building Dwelling Thinking.”)
EDITED FOR GENDERED LANGUAGE (ITALICS)

Thus, instead of asking what particular thing must be built, we inquire into the primordial nature of building as it relates to transportation infrastructure:
First, aedificare has overwhelmed colere. Rather than examining the socio-ecological function of transportation, we have locked ourselves into a frantic quest towards efficiency that culminates in the eradication of spatiality as well as the death of all subjective value.

Heidegger 1949 (Martin, phenomenologist, “The Thing”)
EDITED FOR GENDERED LANGUAGE - ITALICS
All distances in time and space are shrinking. Humans now reach overnight, by
AND
the fact that despite all conquest of distances the nearness of things remains absent

This collapse of space and time forms a frictionless surface for the diffusion of military power, creating a culture of total war where genocide is a quotidian occurrence and war can be superimposed upon all habitable places in the world.

Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 58-9|
EDITED FOR GENDERED LANGUAGE - ITALICS
Deterritorialization inaugurates the sublimation of domestic pacification, the bringing about of great movements of
AND
follows: 'War must be immediately superimposable on all habitable places in the world'
Although this technological enframing has brought the world to the brink of ecological collapse and nuclear annihilation, this is not the primary danger. The true danger is that is risks the very essence of what it means to exist, the ability to experience and reveal the world outside of calculation.

Beckman 2000 (Ted, Professor of Philosophy at Harvey Mudd, Martin Heidegger and Environmental Ethics, 2000, http://www2.hmc.edu/~tbeckman/personal/Heidart.html)

The threat of nuclear annihilation is, currently, the most dramatic and ironic sign
AND
but Heidegger asserts that the human essence is not a being in isolation.


**Contention Two is Dwelling**
The dangers of technological rationality are not intrinsically tied to transportation infrastructure; it is only the abandonment of meditative thought that allows these dangers to proliferate. A return to the primordial origin of building-as-dwelling allows us to preserve technological thought while leaving space for the cultivation of ontological alterity.

Heidegger 1951 (Martin, phenomenologist, “Building Dwelling Thinking.”)
The bridge is a thing of this sort. The location allows the simple onefold
AND
they build out of dwelling, and think for the sake of dwelling.


Specifically, we examine the river bridge as a site of hermeneutic convergence, an immanent binding between technology and meditation:

Heidegger 1951 (Martin, phenomenologist, “Building Dwelling Thinking.”)
The bridge swings over the stream "with case and power. It does not
AND
to itself in its own way earth and sky, divinities and mortals.

We do not literally demand a return to stone bridges, but rather call to re-orientate our relationship towards technology to the point where the specific technology used is no longer relevant. Even the mundane highway bridge can be received with infinite ecstasy and celebration, so long as one remains open to it.

Dreyfus and Spinosa 1997 (Hubert, Department of Philosophy, UC Berkeley, and Charles, Department of English, Miami University, “Highway Bridges and Feasts: Heidegger and Borgmann on How to Affirm Technology,” http://www.focusing.org/apm_papers/dreyfus.html.)
If we now turn back to the autobahn "bridge" example, we can
AND
various identities will be lost as we, indeed, become pure resources.

**Advocacy:** Thus, we affirm that the United States federal government should build bridges.

**Contention Three is Thinking**
Just as the bridge forms a literal nexus between earth and sky, between nature and artifice, our performance functions as a hermeneutic bridge by which to gather together disparate modes of dwelling from within the community. Attempting to impose a single interpretation of the activity would not only hijack debate’s educational potential, it would shatter the very multiplicity that makes deliberation possible in the first place. The coexistence of antagonistic cultural paradigms is the only path to reconciliation with technology.

Dreyfus and Spinosa 1997 (Hubert, Department of Philosophy, UC Berkeley, and Charles, Department of English, Miami University, “Highway Bridges and Feasts: Heidegger and Borgmann on How to Affirm Technology,” http://www.focusing.org/apm_papers/dreyfus.html.)
This resistance to technological practices on the behalf of focal practices is the primary
AND
criticism of technology and still have Heidegger's genuinely positive relationship to technological things.

**2AC Framework**
Counter-interpretation: we can technologically or meditatively affirm the resolution
Only our education is unique to debate- they can learn to be policy wonks by watching the TV and reading the paper- only debate allows for a radical dialogue between critical and policy perspectives, and only a form of debate where we stop reading framework and actually engage with the arguments allows for that.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bruschke</span>, John, associate professor of speech communication at Cal State Fullerton <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and Warner</span>, Ede, associate Professor of communication at University of Louisville, (“’Gone on Debating:’ Competitive Academic Debate as a Tool of Empowerment.” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 22: 1-21. 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>.) p. 15
The second theme this section will address involves competition. One view, of course
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">meet come together, and conversations that would not otherwise occur become real.</span>

Exclusion DA: We’ll impact turn their stasis point- the idea of a common starting point destroys difference by assuming the idea of a rational agon- this demand for rationality is used to exclude alternate forms of debate and those who do them. Moreover their impact is inevitable- all communication is miscommunication.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Secomb 00</span>(Linnell, a lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney “Fractured Community” Hypatia – Volume 15 Number 2 Spring 2000 pg. 138-139
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This reformulated universalist model of community would be founded on "a moral conversation in </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the dominant modes of authoritative and rational conversation that assume homogeneity and transparency</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>

It would mean ontological damnation.
Michael E. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zimmerman</span>, Professor of Philosophy at Tulane, __Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity__, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1994</span>, net-library
Heidegger asserted that human self-assertion, combined with the eclipse of being,
AND
__state of **ontological damnation**: **hell on earth**, masquerading as material paradise.__

) Debate as it is currently practiced replicates the forms of knowledge production of the elite- this __perception__ drives away minorities. Only allowing a multiplicity of types of arguments solves.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bruschke</span>, John, associate professor of speech communication at Cal State Fullerton <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and Warner</span>, Ede, associate Professor of communication at University of Louisville, (“’Gone on Debating:’ Competitive Academic Debate as a Tool of Empowerment.” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 22: 1-21. 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>.) p. 12-15
We agree with each of the authors, and believe that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the lack of participation </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
and challenge rather than create and perpetuate Tannen's ( 1999) ''argument culture."


=Round 3 Aff vs. Sage Ridge= 
Read our Wake aff (eventalization)- see our normal wiki.
=Round 4 Neg vs. Pace CK= 
1NC Nietzsche, Wilderson
2NC Wilderson
1NR Nietzsche
2NR Nietzsche

Cites for nietzsche above and for wilderson on our wiki.

**Specific 1NC wilderson links:**
The affirmative positions freedom as a question of reclaiming humanity and participation – this view cannot take into account the gratuitous violence enacted on the slave. Expanding the inclusionary circle of civil society can never include Blackness because it is founded in contradistinction to it – their humanism is birthed from the murder of the slave.
Wilderson ’10 [Frank, Associate Professor at UC Irvine’s Department of Drama and African American Studies, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pp. 21-23]

Again, what is important for us to glean from these historians is that the
AND
infinite—for they have no line of flight leading to the Slave.

The cunning of racism is its perpetuation through the recognition of past injusticiies- they are used to diffuse struggles and incorporate blacks into neoliberal policies that transfer funds to the elite.
Baca ‘8 [George, assistant professor of anthropology at Goucher College, “Neoliberalism and stories of racial redemption”, Dialectical Anthropology, 2008, Volume 32, Number 3, Pages 219-241, Springer]

In the vacuum left by federal government cutbacks, city governments like Fayetteville assumed greater
AND
Fayetteville and elsewhere in the U.S. South (Baca 2006).



=Round 5= 
INC was a story about bartbey the Scrivener and dillon 99 zp of the hc


=Round 6= 
Heidegger 1AC (same as rd 2)

2AC was FW (same as above), some T violations, and another dreyfus card

Dreyfus 4 (Hubert, Professor in the Graduate School of UC Berkeley, Department of Philosophy, “Heidegger on Gaining a Free Relation to Technology,” Readings in the Philosophy of Technology, ed. by David M. Kaplan, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at UNT, 56-58)

Only those who think of Heidegger as opposing technology will be surprised at his next
AND
and endure in the world of technology without being imperiled by it.27
=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]