[[toc]]
=Aff= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mobility</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Contention one is military mobility ---</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Inefficiencies kill operational flexibility -- crushes mobility and overstresses lift capabilities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DOD is no stranger to supply chain disruption and logistics network challenges. Despite quantum</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">that budgetary plans for mobility assets are inadequate to meet projected lift demand.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Force reduction necessitates improved logistics - the aff is key to successful drawdowns</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Honea et al. 2k</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - PhD (Robert B., Sarah E. Brown, Henry M. Bennett, “U.S. Military Transportation,” Committee on Military Transportation,[[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/millennium/00137.pdf]])</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recent closure or loss of overseas bases and assets now requires a greater dependence on</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">believe that the Transportation Research Board’s Committee on Military Transportation is that mechanism.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sealift is key to USPACOM effectiveness </span>**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Gulledge and Keating** 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jay Gulledge, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville, Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM, 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345,[[http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf]], DMintz]</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The instrument of foreign policy that works best in that part of the world is</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, I am convinced, provide the basis for success in the region.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That solves all impacts -- sea based power projection is key to China, pandemics, and all conflict escalation </span>**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Willard 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert F. Willard, </span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US navy commander, USPACOM,// April 12, 2011, “STATEMENT OF ADMIRAL ROBERT F. WILLARD, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER, U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND POSTURE, [[http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/04%20April/Willard%2004-12-11.pdf]], DMintz]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The USPACOM Area of Responsibility (AOR) is vital to U.S.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">continued forward presence of substantial U.S. forces in the region.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">International crime causes instability -- that goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dobriansky 01</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">–Under Secretary for Global Affairs at the State Department (Paula, “The Explosive Growth of Globalized Crime,”[[http://www.iwar.org.uk/ecoespionage/resources/transnational-crime/gj01.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Certain types of international crime -- terrorism, human trafficking, drug trafficking, and</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to the stability of democratic institutions and free market economies around the world.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics trigger extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Yu 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">— Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science (Victoria, Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate, 22 May 2009,[[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Strategic mobility key to rapid response in the Pacific—solves China war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Corleto 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Lieutenant Colonel Joseph R. Corleto, April 1, 2011, “Future Joint Seabasing in the Asia-Pacific Region”, US Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA553114]],]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A peaceful and stable Asia-Pacific Region is vital to the security, stability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US will require a flexible and effective military capability such as Joint Seabasing.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Senkaku conflict’s likely due to energy concerns --- escalates and goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Klare 13</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;"> --</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, “The Next War”, Realclearworld.com, January 23, 2013, [[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2013/01/23/the_next_war_100500.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Don't look now, but conditions are deteriorating in the western Pacific. Things are</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">planet will look with sadness and horror on the failure of everyone involved.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The plan solves – 2 internal links</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">First is congestion delay --</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Lack of transport coordination exacerbates operation interference – the plan cuts dwell time in half by reducing operational interference through decreased loading times</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Each short haul rail unit train arrives at the strategic port unloading ramp according to</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">an appropriate vessel stow factor for the type load and the operational requirements.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Second is sea basing --</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The military is shifting to sea basing now – that’s key to naval mobility and maritime power projection – creating a sustainable buffer is key</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">**Mallon and Hwang 05**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sea Basing describes an inherently maneuverable, scalable aggregation of distributed, networked platforms that</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, a modified vendor-managed inventory concept will be developed and tested.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New TOC Aff-monitoring]]monitoring</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention two is __transport monitoring__ ---</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of effective transportation monitoring compounds __hazardous material__ risks from terrorism --- attacks will include__radioactive cargo__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Williamson and Budge 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ray A. Williamson, Research Professor, Space Policy Institute of the George Washington University, Amelia Budge, Earth Data Analysis Center, University of New Mexico, “Improving Surface Transportation Security,” Imaging Notes, Vol. 20, No. 3, Fall 2005)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intermodal transport poses a special challenge to transportation security because freight containers generally travel long</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(125,000 truck shipments of explosives annually) f. Radioactive materials</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even without radiation, other hazardous materials still __massively__ contaminate the water supply</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Temple 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bob Temple, Contributor to Group 7, think tank for Railroad Security, cites the GAO Report on Rail Security, The AAR Hearing on Rail Security, and The CRS Report for Congress, Passenger Rail Security: Overview of Issue, “Major Vulnerabilities to Railway Security,” May 8, 2007, [[http://www.personal.psu.edu/staff/r/p/rpt117/sra211/vulnerabilities.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another way that terrorists could destroy a train is through making an attack with the</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">which would result in a massive amount of pollution or contaminated water supply.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This collapses __global fishing markets__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spain 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Glen Spain, Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen’s Associations, “Why the Hanford Matters to Fishermen: Avoiding a Radioactive Colombia River,” Fishermen’s News, September 2002, [[http://www.pcffa.org/fn-sep02.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But ask yourself these questions: What would happen to those markets (and to</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a public relations disaster that could crash our markets for years to come.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That kills billions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Normile 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dennis Normile, “Poor to Feel Pinch of Rising Fish Prices,” Science, Vol. 298, No. 5596, pg. 1154, November 8, 2002,[[http://www.sciencemag.org/content/298/5596/1154.full]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TOKYO— The first major attempt to project global supply and demand for fish has</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">part of the World Bank-funded Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independent of hazardous material accidents, we need to __increase effectiveness__ of transport monitoring to prevent__biological__ and __nuclear__ weapon smuggling into the US</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Williamson and Budge 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ray A. Williamson, Research Professor, Space Policy Institute of the George Washington University, Amelia Budge, Earth Data Analysis Center, University of New Mexico, “Improving Surface Transportation Security,” Imaging Notes, Vol. 20, No. 3, Fall 2005)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IMPROVING INTERMODAL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT SECURITY Intermodal and hazardous materials transport are closely interlinked</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">for automated identification and communication of high-risk cargo are also needed.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Increasing protection now is key -- new gene synthesis technology makes a biological attack __feasible__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Jordans 11</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Frank Jordans, Associated Press, “Clinton Warns of Bioweapon Threat from Gene Tech,” NBC News, December 7, 2011,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.UGI1ZI2PXd2|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.UGI1ZI2PXd2]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GENEVA — New gene assembly technology that offers great benefits for scientific research could also</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">effects of the fictional global epidemic portrayed in the Hollywood thriller "Contagion."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matheny 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">such experiments because the beneﬁts do not seem to be worth the risks.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism is also __feasible__ and __likely__ --- it’s just a question of smuggling __into the US__ --- __domestic__ strike triggers__global nuclear war__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Speice 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear weapon by a number of methods, including "</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">draw in the United States and escalate to the use of nuclear weapons.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Improved intermodal transit key to supply chains</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">DeWitt and Clinger 04 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- PhD from the University of Maryland, Louis Berger Inc. Chairman: Gerhardt Muller, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, (William, Jennifer, "Intermodal Freight Transportation" A1B05: Committee on Intermodal Freight Transport, transportation Research Board, National Academy of Sciences, 2004, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/millennium/00061.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The internationalization and globalization of resources and markets will place demands on intermodal transport in</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and resource investment for intermodal transport, accurate and appropriate measurements must exist.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Supply chain reliability is key to chemical industry -- disruption has a __sector cascade effect__ even without total collapse which jacks the __plastics industry__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weinstein 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bernard L. Weinstein, Ph.D. and Terry L. Clower, Ph.D. Center for Economic Development and Research The University of North Texas Denton, Texas, “The Impacts of the Union Pacific Service Disruptions on the Texas and national Economies: An Unfinished Story,” Prepared for the Railroad Commission of Texas, February 9, 1998)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Gulf Coast's $105 billion chemical industry has probably been hit harder than any</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">no doubt being felt by other sectors of the state and national economies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chemical industry solves multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baum 99</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Rudy M. Baum, C&EN Washington, “Millennium Special Report,” Chemical and Engineering News, American Chemical Society, Volume 77, Number 49, December 6, 1999, [[http://pubs.acs.org/cen/hotarticles/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Here is the fundamental challenge we face: The world's growing and aging population must</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">mysteries and provide for humanity's basic and not-so-basic needs.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Both plastics and chemical industry will __rebound__ with low transport costs --- protection is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ZER 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zacks Equity Research, “Railroad Industry Stock Outlook – May 2012,” May 25, 2012, [[http://www.zacks.com/commentary/21502/railroad-industry-stock-outlook-may-2012]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Railroads along with shippers are making efforts to reduce transportation cost to make U.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">benefited from the boom in shale drilling activities and lower natural gas prices.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cost competitive plastics industry is key to __successful space colonization__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPI 01</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Society of the Plastics Industry, “Plastics in Aerospace: The Right Stuff,” [[http://www.plasticsindustry.org/AboutPlastics/content.cfm?ItemNumber=633&navItemNumber=1118]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">During the past 50 years, aeronautics technology has soared, with plastics playing a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">performance supersonic/hypersonic aircraft, nuclear space power systems and space stations.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This solves inevitable extinction and global resource wars</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collins and Autino, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick, Professor of Life and Environmental Science @ Azabu University, and Adriano, Systems Engineer @ Andromeda Incorporated, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture, and world peace,” Acta Astronautica, Science Direct)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">resources on a large scale is surely equally important [11,16].</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan solves transportation monitoring -- it’s key to operationalize the __central node__ for __information coordination__ and__cargo tracking__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the strategic level the JOCD describes a generic inland multi-modal transfer facility</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">decision support tools, cargo and asset tracking, and business process reengineering.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only the plan solves -- PPSP enables effective __data capture__, __monitoring__, __synchronization__, and __resiliency__ to transport network disruptions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In an operational sense the inland facility provides the missing element of transparency as to</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">existing system capacity and regional throughput capacity to meet increasing system throughput demand.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means we solve the __impacts__ even if they win a disaster still happens by facilitating __redundancy__ of connectivity -- that also __deters an attack__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Williamson 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ray A. Williamson, Research Professor, Space Policy Institute of the George Washington University, “Remote Sensing and Transportation Security,” International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Commission I/FIEOS 2002 Conference Proceedings,[[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/part1/paper/00082.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. transportation system as it now exists possesses many vulnerabilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> that could have been avoided with careful advanced planning and attention to security. Remote </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">sensing can assist</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> both retrospective </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">analysis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and future </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">planning</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Future planning should emphasize the decentralization of facilities </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">redundancy of</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> their </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">functions. In this way individual facilities,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> whether pipeline corridors or roadway conurbations, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">are **reduced in their critical role** in the network and their **attractiveness as targets.**</span>__

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New TOC Aff-plan text]]plan text</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government ought to substantially increase its joint power projection support platform transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New TOC Aff-solvency]]**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">solvency</span>**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Contention three is solvency --</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">This spills over and prevents a collapse of military mobility</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The PPSP is a single, integrated node within a coherently joint deployment and</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Serve as a prototype PPSP that can be replicated in other geographic regions.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Only the plan solves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All these trends and conditions describe a complex, highly stressed regional supply chain of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">natural proving ground and test bed for new rapid deployment strategies and tactics.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">And it relieves congestion and sustains economic productivity</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Mallon and Hwang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005, [[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Victorville prototype PPSP will be a multi-modal and intermodal facility connecting multiple</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">trans-loading opportunities • Provide additional cargo security and military force protection.</span>

=Neg= 
==TPP DA (2NR)== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama is pushing the trans-pacific partnership, his focus, commitment and political capital are key to ensure passage</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">USTR, 4-24</span>**-13 (“Obama Administration Notifies Congress of Intent to Include Japan in Trans-Pacific Partnership Negotiations”, USTR)
The Obama Administration today notified Congress of its intent to include Japan in the Trans
AND
Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation spending costs political capital</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Bowman 1/2**,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert J. Bowman, senior editor of SupplyChainBrain and more than 20 years’ experience writing about infrastructure, logistics, and trade, SupplyChainBrain is the blog for the Global Logistics and Supply Chain Strategies Center, citing the President and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, “Transportation Funding 2: Gridlock on the congressional Gridiron,” January 2nd, 2013, SupplyChainBrain, http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/</span>

The holidays are supposed to be a time of joy, but given the state
AND
another way to generate the money needed to address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TPA is key to global economic growth and U.S. manufacturing</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Hill 3-27-13** (“Manufacturers Outline Priorities for a US-EU Free-Trade Deal,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/290617-manufacturers-press-for-us-eu-free-trade-deal-]])</span>
Manufacturers want negotiators to target a reduction in tariffs and a smoothing of regulatory policies
AND
and serve as a model for the rest of the globe to follow."

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Manufacturing key to overall military superiority and deterrence</span>**
Mackenzie **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eaglen et al </span>**(American Enterprise Institute, Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research, Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting, Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution, Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution, Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting, Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments) January **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>** “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy
Yet there are severe challenges that could result to the nation’s security interests even with
AND
questions to ensure these capabilities are not lost in a matter of years.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heg solves multiple conflict scenarios</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 12 </span>**(3/14, Robert, senior fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier”, http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?iref=allsearch)
(CNN) -- We take a lot for granted about the way the world
AND
what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.