[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

STRAT:
1NC: Anthro K, Interest Convergence
Block: Same
2NR: Same


__**Anthropocentrism K**__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Start your decision with a recognition of your connection to more than human others. Beginning with the human social betrays your anthropocentric bias and reinforces the root cause of violence.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rose 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rebecca, Lecturer in Literature for Trinity College Foundation Studies, The University of Melbourne, 2006, COLLOQUY text theory critique 12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In recent decades concern for… billions of years in the making.29</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although humans are radically and undeniably different from animals and other natural entities, using characteristics like sentience to rationally determine the political and social value of nature risks the worst forms of violence that are at the underbelly of civil society.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Calarco ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Matthew, Asst. Prof of Phil at CSUF, Zoographies: The Question of the Animal From Heidegger to Derrida, June, p. 92-94)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agamben gives the name “anthropological … be able to stop them” (O, 38).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anthropocentrism is THE original hierarchy that makes racism, sexism, and other “-isms” possible—if the future is not to endlessly repeat the horrors of the past, then we NEED a politics that can respect more than human life.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Best 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Steven, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, JCAS 5.2</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">shree)</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While a welcome advance over …baggage official Christianity left behind.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anthropocentrism allows the destruction of all forms of alterity to be reengineered for human purposes—this destroys value to life.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Keekok, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, The Natural and the Artefactual)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To appreciate this dimension one …this sense, ontology precedes axiology.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vote negative to reject their egocentric and human centric ethics in favor of an ecocentric ethic that starts by emphasizing the intrinsic values of Earth’s geoecosystem.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rowe 3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Stan, retired ecology teacher, prof emeritus at the U of Saskatchewan, The Trumpeter Volume 19, Number 2)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ethical systems express human values… home-centred, an Ecological Ethics.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We reject the rationalist “view from nowhere.” We are in a room breathing air, a small part of an intergalactic ecosystem. We do not need to draw a circle defining our position in a human society; we are part of innumerable circles beyond human reckoning, sharing our embodiment with plants, animals, rivers, mountains, and the earth. Only this recognition can rejuvenate ethics.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abram 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (David, Alliance for Wild Ethics, Merleau-Ponty and Environmental Philosophy, edited by Suzanne L. Cataldi, William S. Hamrick, SUNY Press, [[http://www.wildethics.org/essays/earth_in_eclipse.html]] //shree)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We can have little hope of … recklessly endanger all the others.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The role of your ballot is to evaluate which starting point is best to formulate an ethical orientation towards alterity.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The 1AC’s reorientation of our frame of reference in pedagogy shapes reality—they suffer from epistemological impoverishment.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bonnett 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Michael, Lecturer at University of Cambridge in Education, Sustainability as a Frame of Mind—and How to Develop It, The Trumpeter 18.1)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So, why recommend the move …acknowledge natural rhythms and processes.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><<Bonnett Continues Several Pages Later>></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parallel reservations about conditioning by ...and spiritually that sustains us.</span>

=Round 2= 

CONSUMERISM 1AC

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention One: The Phantasy of Planning </span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">The utility maximization principle is viewed as deux ex machina in transportation planning—the belief that humans act mechanically to optimize the utility of their income and the welfare of society not only governs behavioral theory and policy but is used to structure the basis of our consumer culture.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,”//Transportation// 24: 1–31)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Regardless of the method by …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">been ably demonstrated by Hau (1993). </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">This analysis of behavior is incomplete: yes we do push to improve ourselves and increase our utility, but this is balanced with what Freud would call the death drive or the desire to revert to an earlier state of being, ultimately inanimate life. This is a phenomenon that economic theory cannot explain, but instead seeks to avoid. This error in understanding dooms the effectiveness of policies and cause a regressive repetition of market based desires.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,”//Transportation// 24: 1–31)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">In his book Beyond the …__theory will result in failure.__ </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">This utility based form of planning has colonized politics and society—our ideals are governed by the hegemonic influence of consumerism that constantly attempts to materialize the object cause of our desire. This constant attempt at satisfaction is a means to no end—it only serves as a strategy to structurally ignore and escape the death drive. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (//The Lacanian Left//, 229-230) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">In the US especially, __the …in this long incestuous story__.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">The pleasure obtained from maximizing utility becomes a framework by which all laws and actions are governed – this conquers human experience and deems all actions that do not fall under this framework to be deviant and harmful, including moments of wonder and agency</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Zupančič 3</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">(Alenka, Philosopher at the University of Ljubljana, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” p 47-52, evidence under erasure)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">It might seem that the …the paradigm of “religious” thinking.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">And, the state of emergency is a condition of our current view of the death drive – these policies will only continue and worsen the conflict and atrocities of the status quo</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Zizek </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">03</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">(Slavoj,PuppetandtheDwarf,MITPressp.159-66)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">This, perhaps, is also the …__life as one long emergency.__ </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Stuyvesant CL affirms: The United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure that does not maximize utility. </span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Contention Two: Utility Minimilization </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Our approach opens up space beyond the veil of capitalism that allows us to recognize the lack in our ability to achieve our internal desire, in other words an ethics of the real that acknowledges the impossibility of pure ideological politics and the inevitability of death. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**05** (“THE PRODUCTION OF DESIROUS SPACE : MERE FANTASIES OF THE UTOPIAN CITY?”//Planning Theory//, Vol 4(2): 173–199)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Traversing our fundamental fantasy for …__inclusive desired space for all__. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Utility maximization is restricted to a myopic worldview that subjects predictions to market and advertising influences that serve to legitimize the hegemony of consumerism. Psychoanalysis can exposes crucial externalities that explain how and why society is structured in this way, it also reconciles the issues of more radical critiques who have failed to produce organized alternatives. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (The Lacanian Left, 229-230) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">At least from a historical … situation today is not markedly different. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Science has evolved to become and endless stream of knowledge that stifles creativity and turns debate into a passive consumption of knowledge rather than active production. Accepting the finality of death opens space for genuine creativity in the realm of politics rather than a system that renders individual pursuit worthless </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Copjec ’02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;"> (Joan, director of the Center for the Study of Psychoanalysis and Culture at the University at Buffalo, “Image There’s No Woman,” pg. 21-22) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">According to Lefort’s account, __the …__ benefit of his mortal existence. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Now even if they win that science is good for the pursuit of knowledge—our stuff is valid </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Neuroeconomics proves the idea of a utility maximizing individual is ficticuous </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Colin F. **Camerer** is an American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology, May 2, 20**06** (“Neuroeconomics: Using neuroscience to make economic predictions,”[[http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf]]) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">As-if models based on dubious … multiplier effect in the economy.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Lacanian psychoanalysis meets the burdens of scientific inquiry—its transmissibility via standard formula makes it verifiable. Their empiricism is less scientifically valid.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Evans ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;"> (Dylan, Lecturer in Behavioural Science in the School of Medicine at University College Cork, “Science and Truth: An Introduction,” The Sypmtom, lacan.com)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">On this point, Lacan agrees …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> confronts its limit in madness</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case studies and behavioral psychology prove</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Richard </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Redding</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">, Professor of Law and Psychology at Chapman University. “Does Law Need an Analyst? Prospects for Lacanian Psychoanalysis in Law.” //Washington and Lee Law Review,// V. 54, I. 3. 19**97**, pp. 1135-1138.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">However, since Lacan's theory (while …to compensate for its effects. 12 </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Neuroscience agrees with psychoanalysis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Zyga 10 </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">(Lisa, Phys Org, Quoting Anthony Cashmore, a Professor of Biology at University of Pennsylvania, “Free Will is an Illusion, Biologist says,” 3/3, [[http://www.physorg.com/new186830615.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">“Whereas the impressions are that …</span><span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">much greater than he realized.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Desire shapes political action </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Dean 5</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">(Jodi, “Enjoyment as a Category of Political Thought,” Annual Meeting of American Political Science Association, September, jdeanicite.typepad.com/i_cite/files/aspa_05_enjoyment.doc)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Thinking enjoymentintermsof…the existing framework of domination.</span>

=Round 3= 
==Psychopessimism K== 
===1NC=== 
**The 1AC presentation of ethical calamities sustains the ascetic ideal, which internalizes suffering by masking it with surplus enjoyment—this recreates the harms and petrifies the capacity to affirm life.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zupančič 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Alenka, Philosopher at the University of Ljubljana, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” p 47-52, evidence under erasure)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It might seem that the …the paradigm of “religious” thinking.</span>

**No reason to vote aff—no link between prescriptions and effects.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Žižek 95 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Slavoj, Inst of Sociology @ U of Ljubljana, Law and the Postmodern Mind: Superego by Default, Cardozo Law Rev, lexis)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Emphasis should be laid on …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">never be rid of it. </span>

**Vote negative to prefer not to endorse the 1AC. Instead of adopting a politics of resistance which parasitizes upon what it negates, the 1NC gives body to negativity and renders their demands unintelligible.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zizek 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Slavoj, Institute for Social Sciences Ljubljana, The Parallax View, pgs. 380-382)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And this brings us back … all its obscene superego content.</span>

**Desire shapes the operation of the social and the direction of their offense.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stavrakakis 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Yannis, Teaching Fellow at the Dept of Gov’t at Essex, __Lacan and the Political__, p 34)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> What should be stressed at …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we keep longing for it.</span>

=Round 4= 
==New Aff...Oh Shit== 

**__Contention One: The Shit is About to Hit the Fan__**

**Status quo waste infrastructure is the motor to the method of modern totalitarianism. It institutionalizes the imperative of cleanliness order and beauty that is sustained by ostracizing of populations in order to maintain our aesthetic value structure.**
**Moore ’12** (Sarah, Phd., Dept. of Geography, U Arizona, “Garbage matters: Concepts in new geographies of waste,” Progress in Human Geography 36(6) 780–799)

As briefly discussed in section … __understanding, using, and valuing waste__.


**Specifically our relationship with shit determines modern society—it is used to demarcate zones of discourse and public action through the repression of our intrinsic anality**
**Gunn ‘06** (Joshua, January, Assistant Professor of Communication Studies University of Texas, Shittext: Toward a New Coprophilic Style, Text and Performance Quarterly, Vol. 26, January 2006, p. 83-85)

Bio-power marks a transformation of … __out various tactics of resistance__.


**Historically this imperative is based upon our militant disregard for shit and its invisible disposal which attempts to create a pure subject physically separated from the substance that embodies all wickedness**
Dominique **Laporte**, psychoanalyst and the coauthor of Français national: Politique et practiques de la langue nationale sous la Révolution Française, 20**00** (The History of Shit, MIT Press, out of print, pg. 35-39)

This amazing apparatus was taken … **__long as it is human__**.


**Self-purification operates on an implicit micropolitical level, enforcing the defilement of those who cannot achieve a clean civil status. The hatred of the defiled body becomes the central antagonism upon which all other forms of violence are based.**
**Seidman ’13** (Steven, Phd., Professor @ SUNY-Albany, Department of Sociology, “Defilement and disgust: Theorizing the other,” //American Journal of Cultural Sociology// (2013) 1, 3–25)

__In dynamic and socially heterogeneous … **//battle of good and evil.//**__


**Anne and I affirm the plan as the waste of the resolution. This does not have political value, but rather is a gesture that questions the role infrastructure plays in the creation of the sacred subject—this form of profaning key disrupt the hygienic apparatus**
**Agamben ’07** (Georgio, Phd., Baruch Spinoza Chair at European Graduate School, taught at the Università IUAV di Venezia, the Collège International de Philosophie in Paris, and the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, “

The Roman jurists knew perfectly … the gateways to a new happiness.


**__Contention Two: The Poo D’État__**

**Our affirmation is an act of creative suspension that posits our ethical relationship to waste before questions of political strategies. This is key to disrupt the desire for control that underlies the existential crises and the state of anxiety we face today.**
**Peat 8** – theoretical physicist, Ph.D., founder of the Pari Centre for New Learning (F. David, “Gentle Action: Surviving Chaos and Change”, [[http://www.gentleaction.org/library/paper2.php]])

__Many rapid changes__<span style="font-size: 8px;">that</span>__are … appropriate to each new situation__<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>


**Waste is a disruptive site from which we can problematize structures of political domination**
**Moore ’12** (Sarah, Phd., Dept. of Geography, U Arizona, “Garbage matters: Concepts in new geographies of waste,” Progress in Human Geography 36(6) 780–799)

Over the last decade, __geographers …__ (cf. Isin, 2002; Sibley, 1995; Stallybrass and White, 1986).


**Purely political approaches inevitably fail due to internal contradictions and epistemological impoverishment—the 1AC’s reorientation of our frame of reference in pedagogy shapes reality.**
**Bonnett 2** (Michael, Lecturer at University of Cambridge in Education, Sustainability as a Frame of Mind—and How to Develop It, The Trumpeter 18.1)

So, why recommend the move … acknowledge natural rhythms and processes.

**<<Bonnett Continues Several Pages Later>>**
Parallel reservations about conditioning by inherent values can be voiced in relation to the democratic approach to teaching environmental issues advocated by the Environment and School Initiatives program (ENSI).11 This long-running European project is opposed to teachers promoting environmentalist attitudes (environmentalism), advocating instead that pupils exercise their own
rationality through practically addressing local … stultification and spiritually that sustains us.


**Forcing us to engage ONLY in the state is bad—institutions of power displace rather than confront abject relationships by privileging survivalism in their discussions of planning—this causes us to lose faith in the state as a site for change and our own ability as agents to actualize that change**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**08** (“Ideologies of Certainty in a Risky Reality: Beyond the Hauntology of Planning,” Planning Theory, Vol 7(2): 186–206)

Following Beck, this article contends, … new questions than actual answers.


**Cost benefit analysis and utilitarianism are enigmatic of reducing waste to its dollar value—rather waste should be accepted as the locus for discussions of value beyond worth**
**Hawkins and Muecke** **‘03** (Introduction: Cultural Economies of Waste, Gay and Stephen, senior lecturer in School of Media and Communications at University of New South Wales and professor of cultural studies at University of Technology Sydney, pp. x-xi, Culture and Waste: The Creation and Destruction of Value, edited by Gay Hawkins and Stephen Muecke)

__When waste escapes a perfectly circular … ones—in late capitalist economies.__

=Round 5= 

Same aff as Round 4

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]