[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==Strat== 

===1NC=== 

Security
PPPs
States
T - Infrastucture
New Aff's Bad
HSR Trade-off disad
Politics
Case D

===Block=== 

New Aff's Bad
HSR
Case
Security

===2NR=== 

HSR
Case



===PPPs Card=== 


===PPPs solve the aff and avoid the disads – their offense only indicts the status quo not a federally ran program=== 
Emilia <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Istrate and</span> Robert <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Puentes</span>, Director of Research and Outreach at National Association of Counties, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution's Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the program's Metropolitan Infrastructure, December 9, 2011, “A Path to Public Private Partnerships for Infrastructure”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/the-avenue/posts/2011/12/09-infrastructure-puentes-istrate]], KENTUCKY

Often when making the case for U.S. infrastructure investment, someone will point overseas to Europe or Asia and wonder aloud why other countries have world-class, economy-shaping infrastructure and the United States doesn’t. There are obviously many reasons but a key problem is that, unlike other nations, the United States is still over-reliant on the public sector for delivering infrastructure projects.

Today, those public resources are strained, especially for transportation projects. On the federal level, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the highway trust fund will be unable to meet obligations sometime next summer, if not sooner. And while money from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided roughly $335 billion to support the physical infrastructure, those funds are largely spent with little prospect for additional dollars anytime soon.

State funding sources are also shrinking. In addition to the 21 states that saw transportation program cuts in fiscal year 2010, more are proposed for the next fiscal year. While states have spent billions on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs over the decade, these programs are also under budgetary microscopes and short term prospects for funding are strained. Other state sources--such as revenue from sales taxes--that are earmarked for infrastructure projects are also in decline due to the recession.

So what to do? To paraphrase the physicist Ernest Rutherford, “We’ve run out of money; it’s time to start thinking.” The kind of economy shaping next generation infrastructure we need will require a new way to deliver projects.

In an ideal world, the federal government would set a strong platform for transformative investments by establishing new vehicles for infrastructure finance and by radically overhauling the regulatory and administrative barriers that stifle innovation and execution. But the likelihood of meaningful federal action in today’s environment of polarized partisanship is slim. So we must create a new norm and practice of transformative investments the hard way--from the ground up, despite political odds and fiscal obstacles.

For one, the United States needs to take better advantage of and facilitate the use of public/private partnerships (PPPs) for investments. A poll by the financial advisory firm Lazard shows strong willingness for public entities to consider private investment in infrastructure. However, our recent Brookings report shows that the United States lags in this area. In the quarter-century from 1985 and 2011, there were 377 PPPs in the U.S., a scant 9 percent of total amount of infrastructure PPPs around the world.

The problem is not just the unwillingness to consider these arrangements. Increasingly, it seems to be an institutional challenge as public entities are ill-equipped to execute such deals while at the same time fully protecting the public interest. As a result, nothing gets done.

Today the private sector is seeking more legislative certainty prior to bidding on projects and has little appetite for negotiating transactions that are subject to legislative or other major political approvals. While 31 states have PPP enabling legislation for highways, roads and bridges, and 21 for transit projects, the wide differences between them makes it time-consuming and costly for private partners wishing to engage in PPPs in multiple states to handle the different procurement and management processes.





=Round 2= 


==Plan== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of liquefied natural gas.

===Contention 1 is Econ=== 

Economic collapse is inevitable due to austerity measures – only breaking for stimulus can solve
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wood 12 </span>James F. Wood, Global Economy Analyst for Seeking Alpha, June 12, 2012, “ The Unavoidable U.S. Reality: The Upcoming Economic Collapse”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/652661-the-unavoidable-u-s-reality-the-upcoming-economic-collapse]]</span>, KENTUCKY

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The US, and much of the world, faces an unavoidable reality. There must be a severe economic collapse</span> before we can proceed with the next period of sustained economic growth. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This scenario is based on fundamental economic theory and a long history of what happens when the current economic conditions persist and are worsening. T</span>his reality is of utmost importance to any investor except one with a very short-term investment horizon. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This unavoidable reality is clearly demonstrated</span>by the fundamentally opposing policies of the American right and left. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The right, represented by the Tea Party, has both the clearest policies and the least supportable views in terms of economic theory and the real history of the world</span>. The Tea Party's economic plan is to lower taxes, primarily to the richest. <span style="font-size: 16px;">To balance the budget, it plans to cut benefits, primarily to those most in need. This strategy </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">will do severe damage</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to the pretense of a social safety network. A fundamental reason for cutting taxes to the rich is that they will invest and thereby enrich the whole community. The</span> Tea Party <span style="font-size: 16px;">plan fails based on three critical parameters: </span>Classic //<span style="font-size: 16px;">economic theory. Historical fact</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in similar circumstances.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Common sense.</span>//First, let´s discuss classical economic theory. GDP (Gross Domestic Product) is the measure of how an economy is doing. GDP is the measure of our total annual income. <span style="font-size: 16px;">When GDP goes up, people naturally tend to invest. When it goes down, people naturally tend not to invest. GDP is the sum of all spending by the people (the private sector) plus all the spending of the government (government sector) plus net exports (the net balance between exports and imports). If exports are greater than imports, the net balance adds to the GDP. If imports exceed exports, the net balance decreases the GDP. </span>The Tea Party Plan will substantially lessen the government spending. <span style="font-size: 16px;">First, it plans to bring deficit under control, apparently very quickly</span>. Total US government income in 2012 is $2.5 trillion and expense is $3.8 trillion, meaning there is a 50% shortfall in income. (Any private business that spent $3 for every $2 of income would be out of business long ago!) <span style="font-size: 16px;">However, any meaningful Tea Party cut in government spending </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">will have enormous negative effects on </span>//the//<span style="font-size: 16px;">GDP.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Furthermore, there is the multiplier effect. The multiplier effect is the businesses that close because they lose the necessary income to stay in business. The multiplier effect is the reduction in spending by all classes except the richest because they have less to spend, particularly when many lose their job.</span> In short, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">reducing government spending by one dollar will </span>//end up//<span style="font-size: 16px;">reduc</span>//ing//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> GDP by much more than one dollar</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">because of the multiplier effect. Classic economic theory is clear that reducing GDP is not the way to create growth and wealth in the US. To see this empirically, we can look at the second measure of the Tea Party Plan, which is the historical fact in similar circumstances</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">First, let´s look at England today. England is a government that is taking a measured, middle of the road approach with some spending cuts, but with consideration for the social safety net. Actually, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">England's GDP is declining</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> year after year, with great frustration for it´s government. Then we can look at an out of control situation such as Greece</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Each cut</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in government spending simply makes matters that much worse for the country</span>//. And finally, I strongly recommend Rogoff's and Reinhart's book, "This Time is Different" - which <span style="font-size: 16px;">looks at hundreds of years of history and countries all over the world. </span>When countries get to the position of the US, one of two things happen. The amount of indebtedness becomes so high, the world loses faith in the country to pay. The result is sky rocking interest rates and financial collapse. You can see this movie in real time looking at Greece and Spain at this moment. Alternatively, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the country tries to deal with the problem by cutting expenses, but </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">brings on the problem sooner</span>//. The tendency of the US is to "kick the can down the road". It makes the US today to seem to be following Greece and Spain. But with respect to the Tea Party view, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">history shows you cannot cost cut your way to economic well-being after you reach a certain level of indebtedness</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.The problem is both an economic and social problem for the people affected</span>, but it is also a problem where the indebtedness reaches proportions simply too big to manage back to reasonable levels.Thirdly, let´s discuss common sense as the third measure where the Tea Party Plan fails to work. The allegation that lower taxes will produce the incentive to invest is simply not true. People invest because they believe they can make money. The cutting of government expenses will dramatically cut GDP with the multiplier effect. People invest in a growing economy and new opportunities. People do not invest in a shrinking economy without good opportunities. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Investors invest to make money. If the economy is falling, no one will invest even if the tax rate is zero. </span>In short, the Tea Party Plan fails to make sense by three powerful criteria. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The Tea Party Plan will fail</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, and bring on the economic collapse</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> Perhaps its only virtue is that it will bring on the economic collapse problem sooner than the Democratic approach, which ultimately tends to be more painful because the taxpayer ends up owing much more.The Democratic position is best represented by Paul <span style="font-size: 16px;">Krugman.</span> He <span style="font-size: 16px;">is an intelligent man</span> who has held important positions. He is articulate and has written many books. Krugman's position comes down to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stimulus is the only remedy given where we are</span>//. He does <span style="font-size: 16px;">not</span> argue that it will go on<span style="font-size: 16px;">forever, but </span>simply<span style="font-size: 16px;">long enough to get us out of the problem where the economy can then survive on its own.</span>

Most recent data proves – the economy is going down
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Klein 4/12/13 </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Matthew C. Klein, April 12th, 2013, Bloomberg News, “Is the U.S. Economy Slowing Again?” [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/is-the-u-s-economy-slowing-again-.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">most recent data suggest that the U.S. economy</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> may be </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">slowing again</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. It remains to be seen whether this is a temporary phenomenon, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">a predictable consequence of the tax increases and spending cuts imposed earlier in the year</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, or something else. The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">March employment report was the first indicator</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. As I wrote at the time, the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">news on jobs </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">wasn’t quite as bad as the headlines suggested, but it </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">wasn’t good</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, either. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Surveys of business activity from the N</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ational </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">A</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ssociation of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">P</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">urchasing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">M</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">anagers </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">also contained</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> some </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">unwelcome news. The index of U.S. manufacturing activity fell to 51.3 in March from 54.2</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in February. The index is still above 50, which means that manufacturing activity is still growing, but it implies a slowdown. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Similarly, the index for services fell to 54.4 in March from 56.0</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in February. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Both indices are back to where they were last summer. </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">This morning </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">we got to see the latest data on </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">retail spending and consumer confidence. Both fell significantly more than expected.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Retail spending is now</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">growing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">at its slowest pace since the end of the recession. </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">While this is hardly an indicator of imminent recession, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the extent of the slowdown</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> since the summer of 2011 </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is worrying. Consumer confidence, as measured by the University of Michigan, declined sharply</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and unexpectedly, to 72.3 from 78.6</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> last month.</span>

AND – We are in a liquidity trap – only stimulus solves otherwise collapse causing conflict is inevitable

*liquidity trap = implosion of joint asset + credit bubbles and perceived deflation means private sector hoards money and doesn’t spend making lowered interest rates irrelevant
*we are in one right now after Quantitative Easing -> this means government has to enact stimulus to fill the demand gap
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lendman 2/1</span> **–** Research Associate of the Center for Research on Globalization (CRG) BA from Harvard University, MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, (Stephen, 2-1-2013, “The US Economy in Crisis: Recovery is an Illusion”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-us-economy-in-crisis-recovery-is-an-illusion/5321394</span>)

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Headlines flashed warning signs. Commentaries downplayed them. A Wall Street Journal editorial headlined “As Contractions Go….” US Q IV GDP shrank, “but not to worry. The report is better than it sounds, the stock market is rocking, and (the Fed will) keep both feet pressed firmly on the monetary accelerator.” The Financial Times headlined “US outlook still clear despite shower,” saying: Predicting recession “based on (-0.1% GDP decline) “is a bit like expecting rain because somebody threw a bucket of water out the window.” The wildcard is “if Congress decides to dump water out the window every month, via across-the-board ‘sequester’ cuts” expected soon. According to Bloomberg, “R-Word For US Economy in 2013 is Rebound Not Recession.” According to JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, and Morgan Stanley economists, America’s economy “will bounce back in (Q I) after plunging defense spending and dwindling inventory growth” hurt Q IV. Not according to economist John Williams. Recovery is illusory, he says. It’s fake. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Phony </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">government numbers conceal weakness</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Growth hasn’t occurred since 2006/2007. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Earlier Williams said: “Indeed, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the ‘</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">recovery’ is an illusion</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that has been created as a direct result of methodological changes in government inflation reporting of recent decades.” </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">They “resulted in an artificial lowering of official rates of inflation. The faux growth problem is in the use of understated inflation estimates in deflating a number of economic series.” </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">“Major economic series that have no underlying pricing base – such as housing starts, payroll employment and consumer confidence – correspondingly do not require inflation adjustment to put them on a consistent theoretical basis with the concept of real (inflation-adjusted) GDP.”</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">“Those series confirm a history of business activity in recent years that shows a plunge in the economy from 2006/2007 into late-2008/mid-2009, followed by a period of protracted, low-level stagnation, or bottom-bouncing, instead of ‘recovery.’ ” </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams expects </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">double-dip recession</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in 2013. It likely began in 2012 Q II or III, he believes</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12px;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Last August, market analyst Marc Faber rated odds for global recession at 100%. Little or nothing ahead looks promising. Corporate profits will disappoint. The Fed can do so much and no more. Money printing has limits. It’s not magic. On January 31, Faber repeated earlier warnings. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">“When you print money,” he said, it “doesn’t flow evenly into an economy. It flows to some people or to sectors first, and in this case, it flowed into equities, and until about five months ago into bonds.” “I believe that markets will punish central banks at some state through an accident.” </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Stocks could hit bubble levels and pop. Rising interest rates could collapse bonds. “For the first time in four years, since the lows in March 2009, I love this market because the higher it goes, the more likely we will have a nice crash, a big time crash.” </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">He thinks weak global growth and disappointing corporate profits will trigger trouble. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Fed governors are cautious. On January 3, FOMC minutes said: “</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">With regard to the possible costs and risks of purchases, a number of participants expressed the concern that additional purchases could complicate the Committee’s efforts to eventually withdraw monetary policy accommodation, for example, by potentially causing inflation expectations to rise or by impairing the future implementation of monetary policy.” “Participants also discussed the implications of continued asset purchases for the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. Depending on the path for the balance sheet and interest rates, the Federal Reserve’s net income and its remittances to the Treasury could be significantly affected during the period of policy normalization.” </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">“Participants noted that the Committee would need to continue to assess whether large purchases were having adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability.” ” “They expressed a range of views on the appropriate pace of purchases, both now and as the outlook evolved. It was agreed that both the efficacy and the costs would need to be carefully monitored and taken into account in determining the size, pace, and composition of asset purchases.” </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Governors are </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">conflicted. They have reason to worry. They’re </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">questioning excessive long term money printing benefits. Artificial schemes don’t work. They cause more harm than good. Eventually they end. What can’t go on forever won’t. They’ll have to decide when. Economic and market consequences will follow. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Newly released Q IV GDP data showed growth contracted 0.1%. Sequestered deficit cutting suggests further declines. Consumer confidence is low for good reason. Europe, China, Japan, and other major world economies show weakness. Is America on track for double dip trouble? In Q IV, government and business inventory spending declined. Auto sales alone drove consumer spending gains. Deep discounts, near zero interest rates, and Hurricane Sandy affected purchases stimulated sales. Exports were down. Weak global manufacturing and trade affected them. Healthcare spending slowed noticeably. US economic growth ground to a halt. Doing so suggests weakness going forward. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Artificial stimulus works only so long. Q III included record defense spending. It accounted for over a third of GDP growth. It followed two years of reduced government spending. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Q III data were released days before November elections. Good news benefited Obama. True Q III GDP growth was misreported. It wasn’t 3%. When accurately adjusted, it was 1 – 1.5%. It’s been that way for two years. Day of reckoning signs appeared in Q IV. Multiple quantitative easing rounds barely held economic growth above water. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Money printing madness substituted for stimulative growth. Central bank intervention repeated what hasn’t before worked. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">European economies are troubled. America shows weakness. Force-fed austerity doesn’t work. Decline replaces prosperity. Living standards deteriorate. Households have less to spend. Production and consumption suffer. So does the real economy. Financial war helps speculators alone benefit. Eventually </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">expect systemic crisis. It could take months or years to arrive. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Market manipulation delays day of reckoning time. It can’t prevent it. Q IV GDP suggests 2013 weakness. Headwinds may be stiffer than expected. Payroll tax increases cuts $100 billion from GDP. It does so when stimulus is needed. Consumer sentiment and spending are weak. Expect sequestered/largely discretionary $1.2 trillion cuts by end of March. Stiff 10 – 20% health insurance premium hikes impact healthcare spending. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Business spending spiked in Q IV. It did so ahead of expected tax law changes. Expect it to slow in Q I. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Manufacturing</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is weak. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Housing</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> remains troubled. So is America’s economy. Odds favor </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">double-dip trouble</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12px;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Five years after economic collapse, virtually zero growth was achieved. Wall Street was bailed out. Main Street was sold out. Ellen Brown does some of the best financial writing. Last September, she said </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">America’s economy needs “a good dose of ‘</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">aggregate demand</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">.’ ” It needs money put in people’s pockets. QE for Wall Street won’t jumpstart the economy. It won’t “reduce unemployment.” It’s stuck at 23%. It’s the highest since Great Depression levels. QE puts no “money in the pockets of consumers.” It doesn’t “reflate the money supply.” “(S)ignificantly lower interest rates for homeowners” aren’t achieved. Other consumer purchases don’t benefit. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">QE helps bankers, other speculators and investors. Ordinary people are harmed. Economic growth is taxed. It’s monetary poison. It’s harming the dollar. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Finance is a new form of warfare. Money printing madness is based on the wrong-headed notion that Fed-supplied liquidity encourages bank lending to stimulate growth. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Despite multi-trillions of dollars in free zero interest rate money, bank lending to small/medium sized businesses and households is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">too little to help</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">No loans mean </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">no investment</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">no hiring</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">no money in people’s pockets</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. At the same time, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">US corporate giants hoard</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> enormous amounts of cash. Estimates range up to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">$5 trillion</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Fed reports downplay what’s held. Their data include only domestic cash reserves, Treasuries, other bonds, and bank accounts. Foreign holdings aren’t included. Global trillions aren’t invested. They’re used for salaries, huge bonuses, dividends, stock buybacks, and speculation. At the same time, inflation-adjusted consumer disposable income declined for decades. Post-9/11, it’s been especially hard hit. Spending growth is largely credit driven. Insufficient income retards it. Households are debt-entrapped. Eventually they’ll be unable to assume more. Progressive Radio News Hour regular Jack Rasmus discusses America’s “epic recession.” For five years, its economy “bumped along the bottom.” Conditions ahead look worse, not better. Fed gamesmanship puts international finance at risk. Economies haven’t been healed. They’ve been wrecked. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">QE is a zero sum game. It’s financial terrorism. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">It sacrifices growth for Wall Street. It hangs ordinary people out to dry. It promises protracted hard times. It leaves growing millions on their own sink or swim. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Let-eat-cake economics doesn’t work. It never did. It doesn’t now. It sparks decline</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and revolutions</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, not growth and prosperity.</span>

Transportation Infrastructure of Natural gas is the key to economic stimulus driven growth
Matthew <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">DiLallo,</span> Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, [[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]], KENTUCKY

<span style="font-size: 8px;">News hit the wire the other day that the long-awaited analysis by the Department of Energy on natural gas exports is being delayed by several months. This delay will push back the approval of several facilities that would be converted to export natural gas overseas. I think that the delay in the report is </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">only delaying the inevitable</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> as these </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">projects will</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> eventually be approved</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. In fact, I’ll go as far as to say that </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">these projects </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">simply MUST be approved</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and here are three reasons why: </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">It’s Hypocritical to Import but Not Export</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Oil is a global commodity and because of the well-developed </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">transportation infrastructure</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> it is priced on a global scale and affected by global events. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Natural gas</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">on the other hand </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">is</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">a more </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">localized</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> commodity </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">because its mobility is constrained by limited infrastructure</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. These localized pricing environments can diverge wildly, in the US for example natural gas is around $3/MMBtu while it’s $12 in Europe and $15 in Asia</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. In the US our infrastructure is limited to importing gas because until the shale gas bonanza we were doing just that.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Now these same facilities like Dominion’s (NYSE: D) Cove Point, Exxon’s (NYSE: XOM) 30% owned Golden Pass and Cheniere Energy’s (NYSEMKT: LNG) 61% interest in the owner of Sabine Pass are all seeking approval to be converted to export gas. However, there is growing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">pushback that we shouldn’t allow gas to be exported.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> While I understand the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">idealist protectionism</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of some as well as concerns of our national security </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">it’s simply hypocritical</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> to have had a policy that allowed imports when we needed the fuel but to withhold its exports when we now have it in abundance. Just take a look at the numbers, in 2011 the US imported $2.2 trillion worth of goods and of that total 8.2% was crude oil. Last month alone that worked out to $37.8 billion dollars being sent overseas. On the other side we’re the world’s third largest exporter of goods at $1.5 trillion which is a number we’d like to bring back into balance if not reverse. While exporting gas won’t put much of a dent in that number, it should be free to flow in that direction. One advocate of exporting is Exxon subsidiary XTO’s President Jack Williams. He recently said, “</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Just as we export grain and cars and other American products, exporting LNG can create economic (opportunity</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">). It will promote free trade with potential partners around the world. It will encourage increased natural gas production.”</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> To me those ideals of protectionism and national security go out the window when put in context of how much we already export. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Low Natural Gas Prices Are a Long-Term Negative for Our Economy</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> One of the biggest critics of exporting gas is actually the fuel’s biggest champion. Boone Pickens said of exports that “we’d go down as the dumbest crowd that ever came to town if we send clean natural gas abroad and import oil from OPEC.” He’s certainly got a point and I’m all for using gas as a transportation fuel as Boone has been advocating. However, low natural gas prices are a long-term negative for our economy and we can’t afford to let that continue when we have solutions. One of the big concerns with exporting our abundant gas is that it’ll drive up prices for consumers, but </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">exporting is believed to only have about a 10% effect on pricing</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Because </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">our </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">exporting infrastructure will remain capacity constrained until many new facilities come online</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> it will take years before any price increase impacts consumers. Even if the impact on prices is much higher that is not necessarily a bad thing for our economy. Top natural gas drillers like Chesapeake (NYSE: CHK) and Southwestern Energy (NYSE: SWN) are struggling to produce consistent profits with depressed gas prices. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">If prices remain unprofitable they’ll stop expending capital to drill new wells</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> We’re already starting to see that at Southwestern as they reduced their 2012 capital budget by 5% from last year to a number that’s below their 2010 spending. Meanwhile, Chesapeake has been shedding assets and aggressively shifting their capital to liquids rich plays do deal with low prices. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">That capital spend from higher prices creates and sustains more jobs and when multiplied across the industry</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> it’s tens of thousands of jobs. Finally, low natural gas prices yield lower profits and by extension lower taxable income. Not that I’m a fan of paying more taxes but </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">higher profits from gas will put more money into the government’s coffer</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">s. It Will Create Jobs </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Politicians</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> talk</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a lot about creating jobs,</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> especially at this time of year, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">but exporting gas will create them</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Not just </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">from </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">building and operating these projects</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> but from </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">drilling new wells to support the exports </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">as well as from </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the multiplier effect</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG export terminals are very expensive to build</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Exxon’s </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Golden Pass would require an investment of up to $10 billion.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Cheniere’s Sabine Pass is estimated to cost about $11 billion to complete while Dominion hasn’t yet released a cost estimate for Cove Point, but </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">it will </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">likely be a substantial investment.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">Infrastructure spending is one of the most effective ways to create jobs</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">as </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">for every $1 billion in new investment </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">the total of direct, indirect and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">induced jobs is 18,000. When you total up all the jobs that could be created by using our national </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">resources it’s a staggering 3.6 million jobs by 2020</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> which could increase our GDP by as much as 3%. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">However, that’s only possible if drilling remains profitable and shutting off another market for gas won’t help</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Being energy independent and securing our energy supply is important to us all. Yet, exporting natural gas would only amount to 7.4% of the increase in supplies from new shale gas supply coming online according to Cheniere Energy for one of their projects. With such a minimal effect on supply and pricing I don’t understand why we’re being hypocritical in the stance against something that’ll create thousands of jobs. That’s why I </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">think exporting natural gas must be approved.</span>//

The plan is the only means to generate economic growth – anything besides deficit driven Transportation investment fails
*in a liquidity trap now – businesses and consumers are indifferent between holding cash and making investments meaning monetary policy is no longer effective
*World War II deficit spending proves that deficit spending on TI 100% renewed the economy
*taxes fail – they don’t change the rate of consumption meaning it allows for outsourcing by buying TI from China, fed stimulus on TI makes sure jobs stay in the US (Buy American laws)
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dau-Schmidt 12 </span>Dau-Schmidt 12 – PhD in Economics, Professor of Labor and Employment Law at Indiana University (Kenneth G. Dau-Schmidt, “Keynes Was Right!”, Indiana Law Journal, Article 4, Volume 87, Issue 1, 1/1/2012, http://www.repository.law.indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2970&context=ilj&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fscholar.google.com%2Fscholar%3Fhl%3Den%26q%3Dkeynes%2Bwas%2Bright%26btnG%3D%26as_sdt%3D1%252C30%26as_sdtp%3D#search=%22keynes%20right%22)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Initial government reactions to the Great Depression were minimal or even counterproductive. President </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Hoover</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> argued that the nation’s problems could be solved through “belt-tightening.”7 He </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">reasoned that in</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> such </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">a time of uncertainty, the government should</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> be stable—</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">balanc</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">its budget and shor</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">up</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> its </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">currency</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Unfortunately, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">these measures further contracted the money supply and decreased aggregate demand</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, further </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">increasing</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">unemployment</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> rate.8 There were also those in Hoover’s administration who believed that the pain people were enduring would have a therapeutic effect on the economy. Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon argued, “Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate. . . . [That] will purge the rottenness out of the system. . . . People will work harder, live a more moral life. . . . and enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people.”9 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Keynes hypothesized that, in order to escape the Great Depression, the government should actively stimulate aggregate demand to increase employment and consumer spending and</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> thus </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">encourage the economy to spiral upward, not downward</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.10 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">This should be done</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, according to Keynes, by expanding the money supply, or </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">by direct government deficit spending to increase demand for goods and investment in capital</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.11 Although merely adjusting the money supply might be adequate to combat small recessions, Keynes argued that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">direct government deficit spending would be the most effective tool in combating unemployment when interest rates had dropped to the point that further increases in the money supply did not increase aggregate demand. Keynes referred to this situation as “the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">liquidity trap</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">” because, at a low enough interest rate, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">businesses and consumers became indifferent between holding cash</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (liquidity) </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and making investments</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">, and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">thus further increases in the money supply would not increase aggregate demand or employment</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.12 Franklin Delano Roosevelt adopted Keynes’s theories as a basis for the New Deal and undertook </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">an aggressive policy of deficit spending on </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">infrastructure</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> to employ people and put money in their hands for consumption and improvement of the economy.13 This policy </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">significantly improved the economy, which fully recovered with the massive deficit spending required for World War II</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. 14 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">As a result</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> of the economic recovery, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">people had jobs and government coffers were filled, so that in the long run the direct government deficit spending improved both the lives of Americans and the government’s balance sheet</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.15</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">We now find ourselves in a very similar predicament in which investment speculation has resulted in the failure of financial institutions and a significant decline in the money supply, aggregate demand, and employment</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.16 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The Federal Reserve has valiantly and appropriately combated the recession by expanding the money supply, but with interest rates to banks basically at zero, interest rates have fallen to the point where there is no more room for purely monetary policy to stimulate the economy</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.17 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Balancing state or the federal budgets at this time would</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> merely repeat the errors of the Hoover administration, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">decreas</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ing </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">aggregate demand and kill</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ing, or even reversing, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the recovery</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.18 Although deficit spending increases future commitments on debt maintenance, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">well-designed deficit spending now will shorten the recession</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, improve our children’s and student’s job prospects, increase employment and tax revenues, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">lessen</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">long-run</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> government </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">budget deficit</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. General </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">tax cuts</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> for businesses and the wealthy—the “job creators” as the Republicans like to call them—</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">would be</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> a very </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">ineffective</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> way </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">to stimulate aggregate demand because not all of these tax cuts would be spent on consumption</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">,19 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> much of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">what was spent on consumption would</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> just </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">be spent on more crap from China</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">—</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">benefiting Chinese workers but not American workers</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.20 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Direct government deficit spending on the infrastructure ensures</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> that that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">money is spent on jobs in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">tates and that the money purchases something that will benefit our children who will be left with any debt load.21</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Keynes himself once said, “Ideas shape the course of history.”22 On the vital issue of determining the appropriate policy to increase employment and get us out of the Great Recession, it is imperative that wiser minds like that of Professors Golden and Flanagan prevail.23 Regardless of your normative or political beliefs, balancing the state and federal budgets now will decrease aggregate demand and employment while direct government deficit spending will increase aggregate demand and employment. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Although we should not undertake additional government debt lightly, under the current circumstances further fiscal stimulus will</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> shorten the Great Recession and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">increase the g</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">ross </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">d</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">omestic </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">p</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">roduct </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">enjoyed by Americans and tax revenues</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">.</span>

Decline causes global conflict
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">economic decline may</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">increase</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the likelihood of external conflict</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">rhythms in the global economy are associated with the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> often </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">bloody transition</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> from one pre-eminent leader to the next</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. As such, exogenous shocks such as </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">increasing the risk of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">miscalculation</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that '</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">future expectation of trade' is a</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">significant variable</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">if the expectations of future trade decline</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the likelihood for conflict increases</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> potentially be the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">trigger</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> for </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">decreased trade expectations</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (2002) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularlyduring</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> periods of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">economic downturn</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. They write: The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Economic decline has</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> also </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">been linked with an </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">increase in the likelihood of terrorism</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">"Diversionary theory"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">suggests</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> that, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, sitting </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">governments have increased incentives to fabricate externalmilitary conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag'effect</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">periods of weak economic performance in the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">U</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">nited </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">tates, and thus weak Presidential popularity, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">are </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">statistically linked</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to an increase in theuse of force</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflictat systemic, dyadic and national levels</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>

AND – Plan is the only way to create resiliency
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Little 11</span> – Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]</span>,)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were designed to unlock the nation's natural resources, agriculture, and manufacturing strength and bring these products to market. Today, despite a dynamically changing economy, these sectors along with trade and transportation still account for more than a quarter of</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">GDP</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> or $3.5 trillion, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">but many</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">transport linkages </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">have become bottlenecks due to long-delayed repair and replacement. The</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> entire U.S. economy</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">as well as consumers, would benefit from a more efficient and</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> resilient supply chain</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>//
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Unfortunately, for far too long, Americans have been lulled by their political leadership into a false sense of entitlement. Faced with the prospect of raising taxes or charging fees to cover the cost of maintaining these systems, they have chosen to do neither. As a result, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">our highways and bridges decline at alarming rates.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Most of the other systems vital to our interests suffer the same fate. Fixing this is well within our control, the challenge will be to muster the will to do so.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">first step</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">in addressing this problem will be to ensure that adequate revenue streams are in place.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Whether this revenue comes from the fuel tax, tolls, or other mechanisms is less important than having the funds to work with. Without a move to revenue-based models, necessary renewal of critical infrastructure will be long delayed, if provided at all. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">We can show that we value these systems by agreeing to pay for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.</span>

Growth is a filter for all impacts – it de-escalates conflict
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gartzke 11</span> – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to do so.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> At the same time, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Warfare in the modern world has</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> thus </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">become an activity involving weak</span>// <span style="font-size: 8px;">(usually neighboring)</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">nations, with intervention by powerful</span>// <span style="font-size: 8px;">(geographically distant) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">states in a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">policing</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> capacity.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> easiest, and I think the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">best, explanation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> has to do with </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">an absence of motive</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value.</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Of comparable importance is the move to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">substantial consensus</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> of the twentieth century </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">economic interdependence</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in particular) means that </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future.</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> The rising nations of Asia</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in particular </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">have not been</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> equal</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">beneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">If</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">peace</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> observed among western, developed nations </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is to prove durable, it must be because</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> warfare proves futile as </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">nations transition to prosperity</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. Prosperity has made war expensive, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">spoils have declined in value.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

And – growth solves famine
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mahder 8</span> (Ethiopian Development Website, “Addressing the root cause of famine and poverty in Ethiopia,” September 27, 2008, http://mahder.com/pdf/Addressing_the_root_cause_of_famine_and_poverty_in_Ethiopia..pdf, AD: 7-6-9)
It is well established that <span style="font-size: 16px;">there is a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">strong correlation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> between famine and economic development or growth. Economic growth leads to development and reduction in</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">poverty and famine.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Real economic growth embracing and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">benefiting all the citizens</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of a country produces safety mechanisms which are of vital importance in alleviating or avoiding displacements and live destruction emanating from famine.</span>The suffering and significant loss of lives resulting from persistent <span style="font-size: 16px;">famines </span>which are hitting Ethiopia <span style="font-size: 16px;">could not be avoided</span> or even mitigated <span style="font-size: 16px;">owing to the shrinking economy</span> or increasing poverty in the country. On the other hand, one can can not avoid but face the irony of Ethiopia failing to be self sufficient and feed its population despite possessing all the potential to do so. Thus a critical examination of the major stumbling block or factor acting as a bottleneck and preventing the country from eradicating or even coping with famine is necessary.

Nuclear war
Matt <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Savinar</span>, JD, Geopolitical expert on the environment, Degree in Political Science @ U of Cali, quoted extensively on the floor of the United States Congress His website, LifeAftertheOilCrash.net is assigned reading in multiple university courses around the world. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">04 </span>[“The peak Oil and Die-off,” http://www.Unicamp.br/fea/Ortega/eco/traducau_DieOff.pdf] KENTUCKY
Remember that in the 21st century oil production = food production. So the question should be, “//<span style="font-size: 16px;">How many people, in which nuclear-armed nation, are going to starve before they feel they have nothing to lose by initiating a nuclear war</span>//?” Of course, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the nuclear war</span>// couldvery well be accidental<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span>With 30,000 nuclear weapons floating around the world, many in the possession of highly aggressive, unstable, and thoroughly unaccountable individuals, an accident //<span style="font-size: 16px;">is almost inevitable.</span>// Most people are completely unaware that on January 25, 1995, we came within three minutes of witnessing an accidental nuclear holocaust. As Dr. Helen Caldicott explains in her book The New Nuclear Danger, on that day Russian radar stations mistook an American missile carrying a scientific probe for a nuclear weapon. Russian military officers accessed the nuclear launch codes and directed Boris Yeltsin to get his finger on the proverbial red button. Yeltsin was within three minutes of launching a retaliatory attack when the US probe veered off-course.272 As a result of its subsequent economic collapse, Russia’s missile control systems have completely fallen apart since that day and are now highly vulnerable to both accidents and terrorism.273 At times, the US systems haven’t been much more reliable. As the New York Times has reported, part of America’s nuclear warning system failed to properly function for almost a year during 1999-2000.274 Unfortunately, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">tensions will</span>//only //<span style="font-size: 16px;">heighten</span>// as oil becomes more scarce, thereby //<span style="font-size: 16px;">increasing the chance of accidental nuclear annihilation</span>//. 98//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Is there any chance we will resolve this situation without an all-out world war? As things stand now, absolutely not. Wars are most often fought over</span>// life-giving resources such as //<span style="font-size: 16px;">food</span>//and energy. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Humanity is facing the most severe</span>//resource //<span style="font-size: 16px;">shortages in</span>// world //<span style="font-size: 16px;">history. There is no reason to expect we won’t address these shortages as we have addressed all previous shortages: with warfare.</span>//Since the //<span style="font-size: 16px;">coming shortages </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">are unprecedented in their severity</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">, we can expect </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">the accompanying wars</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">to be </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">unprecedented in</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">their </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">severity</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">as well. </span>//We may not like to admit it, but //<span style="font-size: 16px;">human </span>//**__<span style="font-family: 'Franklin Gothic Heavy','sans-serif';">being</span>__**//<span style="font-size: 16px;">s</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">can be absolute animals</span>//. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The truth</span>// of this //<span style="font-size: 16px;">has been long confirmed by anthropologists</span>//. For instance, in his book The Dark Side of Man, author Michael P. Ghiglieri writes: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">War analyst</span>//Stanislav //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Andreski concluded</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">that </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">the trigger for </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">most wars is hunger, </span>//or//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> even ‘a mere drop</span>// from the customary standard of living.’ Anthropologists Carol and Melvin Ember spent six years studying war in the late 1980s among 186 pre-industrial societies. They focused on pre-contact times in hopes of collecting the ‘cleanest, least distorted’ data. Andreski, it seems, was right. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">War’s most common cause</span>//<span style="font-family: Times;">, </span>the Embers found, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">was fear of deprivation. The victors in the wars</span>//they studied almost //<span style="font-size: 16px;">always took</span>//territory, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">food</span>//, and/or other critical resources from their enemies. This also holds true among modern nations. For instance<span style="font-family: Times;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">after studying </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">recent global conflicts, political scientists</span>//Thomas E. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Homer-Dixon</span>//, Jeffrey H. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boutwell, and</span>//George W. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rathjens concluded, “There are significant</span>//causal //<span style="font-size: 16px;">links between scarcities</span>//of renewable resources //<span style="font-size: 16px;">and violence</span>//. In short, many wars seem to be a mass, communal robbery of another social group’s life-support resources.275 It seems that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">when humans are faced with resource shortages we </span>//**__<span style="font-family: 'Franklin Gothic Heavy','sans-serif';">r</span>__**eact exactly as our primate cousins do: by //<span style="font-size: 16px;">kill</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">ing </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">each other</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. The US Army is as aware of this fact as the anthropologists are. </span>In 1997, Major Ralph Peters wrote in the US Army War College’s journal, Parameters, that during the 21st century: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">There will be no peace</span>//. At any given moment for //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the rest of our lifetimes, there will be multiple conflicts</span>//in mutating forms //<span style="font-size: 16px;">around the globe. Violent conflict will dominate</span>// the headlines, but cultural and economic //<span style="font-size: 16px;">struggles will be steadier and ultimately more decisive</span>//. The de facto role of the US armed forces will be to keep the world safe for our economy and open to our cultural assault. To those ends, <span style="font-size: 16px;">we will do a fair amount of killing.276 </span>

A Certain commitment is key to port projects being effective
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Szakonyi 12</span>— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) EL

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The push by U.S. ports for more federal dredging dollars is finally beginning to make waves in Congress</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Language that would require all funds collected through the Harbor Maintenance Tax to be used for navigation projects is likely to be included in the final surface transportation bill</span>. That's a major breakthroughfor maritime advocates who argue it's unfair that roughly one-third of the collected taxes are used to plug other budget gaps. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund collects roughly $1.5 billion annually from importers, who pay a rate of 0.125 percent of the value of their cargo. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The HMTF is expected to have a surplus of nearly $7 billion by the end of fiscal 2013</span>, according to the Association of American Port Authorities. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The ports' argument that more money needs to be spent on dredging to create jobs and boost trade also is gaining traction on the front line of congressional funding allocations</span>.Under the latest House energy and water appropriations bill, ports in fiscal 2013 would get $1 billion for maintenance dredging. That's the largest single annual federal award for dredging and about $170 million more than the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers received last time around. "This is a significant development. It wasn't so long ago that (the corps) only received $750 million," said Paul Bea, principal of PHB Public Affairs, a maritime consulting firm. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Ports will actually get </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">less dredging help</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in the next fiscal year than in fiscal 2012, however</span>, said Barry Holliday, executive director of Dredging Contractors of America. Funding tied to military project dredging and disaster relief pushed total maintenance dollars to about $1.1 billion in fiscal 2012.<span style="font-size: 16px;">The latest appropriation shows a congressional willingness to spend more, even if the full allocation of HMTF dollars would fall short in tackling port needs</span>, Holliday said. The Realize America's Maritime Promise Act, or RAMP Act, has been the major driver in convincing Congress the HMTF needs reform and more spending is needed. The legislation was included in the House's 90-day extension, which paved the way for the chamber to begin conferencing with the Senate on the surface transportation bill. The Senate has similar but less forceful language in its two-year, $109 billion plan. This boosts the chances that HMTF reform language will make it in the final version of the transportation bill, but it's just the first step in blocking appropriators from shifting money out of the fund for non-dredging purposes. Even if the RAMP Act language is adopted, it's not a mandate. Supporters would have to call a point of order in appropriation committees to slap the hands of would-be siphoners, Bea said. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Despite the positive signs for ports, they are still stifled in getting authorization and funding for </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">new</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">major navigation projects. </span>Historically, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the Water Resources Development Act has been the vehicle for ports to get authorization for such projects</span>, and funding is granted separately through the annual appropriations process. The last WRDA was in 2007, and <span style="font-size: 16px;">there is no new version on the horizon</span>. Even if there were, it's unclear how it would proceed under the House's ban on earmarks and the Senate's similar stance. Not only do the earmarks allow legislators to include language relating to their home ports, but they also provide impetus for representatives and senators to back the bill. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">federal uncertainty </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">hits the East Coast particularly hard, because only a few ports have the funding and approval necessary to deepen their channels.Ports </span>such as Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C, <span style="font-size: 16px;">need deeper harbors to handle larger ships able to pass through the expanded Panama Canal in 2015.</span>That supporters of Charleston and Savannah are preparing to take on the deepening expenses themselves reflects just how little optimism there is for federal help. Bea said maritime advocates and legislators are attempting to figure out how they can get projects funded and authorized in new ways. One such approach is by Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., to create a national assessment of which ports should be deepened. Plans to create a program for prioritization in authorization and funding come with their own set of problems, however, Holliday said. "When you start prioritizing ports, you begin picking winners and losers," he said. Aside from skepticism of the government's ability to discern champions from laggards,<span style="font-size: 16px;">prioritization sidesteps the issue that </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">most, if not all, ports</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> need funding to maintain their infrastructure and grow.Such a prioritization process could dampen efforts to boost overall port spending</span>. That could, unfortunately, fit too well with Congress's history of favoring easy short-term fixes over harder, more meaningful long-term decisions.

Strong federal commitment is key to the industry
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">America´s deep-draft navigation system is at a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">crossroads, with a future that can be bright or bleak</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Our waterways´ ability to support the Nation?s </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">continuing growth in trade and</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">defense of our Nation</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">hinges on </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">much-needed Federal attention to unresolved funding needs that are derailing critical channel maintenance and deep-draft construction projects</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of the water highways to our ports. Because most ports do not have naturally deep harbors, they must be regularly dredged to allow ships to move safely through Federal navigation channels. Also, as modern vessels increase in size, navigation channel depths must increase accordingly</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">if we are to continue to be a player on the international marketplace. A recent U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study reports that almost 30 percent of the 95, 550 vessel calls at U.S. ports are constrained due to inadequate channel depths. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the things that cause port directors nightmares. Without a channel dredged to its authorized depth, nothing else comes into play. Attracting new customers, dealing with labor issues, environmental concerns, and the public - all go away - because </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">without a properly-dredged channel, business goes away.</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Public ports are at a critical state in keeping their channels open for business. We are losing existing business and potential new business to ports outside of the United States ? and once lost, it is rarely regained. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dredging can literally make or break our industry,</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and a lack of dredging is an issue throughout the United States. In fact, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">it is not an overstatement to say that</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in many parts of the United States, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">we face a dredging crisis.</span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> On the Great Lakes, as Chairman James L. Oberstar of this Committee and Chairman David R. Obey of the Appropriations Committee well know, decades of inadequate funding for dredging have left a backlog of 18 million cubic yards of sediment. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates removing the backlog will cost more than $230 million on the Great Lakes alone. In some cases, ports on the Great Lakes have actually shutdown due to inadequate dredging. There are similar examples of dredging problems in ports and harbors on all coasts of our Nation. In many cases, vessels must ?load light? because of dredging shortfalls. The economic implications of light loading are enormous. On the Great Lakes, for example, vessels lose between 50 to 270 tons of cargo for each inch they must reduce their draft and, in some areas, the lost draft is measured in feet, not inches. Light loading because of inadequate dredging impacts everyone. A ship that is light-loaded reduces its efficiencies in the same way that a commercial airplane that is required to set aside seats with no passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies.</span>

Any other actor destroys it
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should the Federal Government pay for maintenance dredging? A. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Investment decisions made by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the Federal Government</span>//, local ports and the private sector <span style="font-size: 16px;">have been based on the expectation that the Federal Government will continue to fund maintenance dredging</span>. These local investments have created the system of ports the nation relies on to meet its national defense needs and growing international trade. The benefits of safe and efficient //<span style="font-size: 16px;">trade provided by a national system </span>//of navigation channels are spread throughout the country. In addition, the benefits to the nation resulting from national defense, commercial fishing, and recreational users are immeasurable. The costs for dredging Federal navigation channels should be spread across the whole nation because all citizens benefit. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Federal government recognized</span>// this long ago //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in the</span>// U.S. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Constitution.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">Based on the</span>// U.S. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Supreme Court decision</span>// and the rancorous debate about the fee in the 1980s, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">any alternative</span>// trade/tax/user fee funding mechanism //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will have significant legal and political challenges</span>// to overcome. Q. Why not assess a vessel tonnage fee to pay for maintenance dredging? A. The assessment of a tonnage fee on cargo or vessels would severely affect bulk commodities, such as grain or coal, which compete in international markets where pennies a ton can make or break a sale. For example, maintaining a channel at 43 feet instead of 44 feet may mean the difference of 750 fewer tons of coal loaded on a single ship, often five percent of a ship’s total cargo potential. These shipments, which are amongst our Nation’s leading export products, now use the most cost-effective route--typically moving by barges down rivers to coastal harbors. Those harbors, in turn, tend to require significant maintenance dredging because of the river sediment. In general, dredging demands related to the shipping of these types of export products are greater than those related to import products. Q. Can’t ports pay for their own dredging? A. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Requiring local ports to raise their own funding </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">for</span>// maintenance //<span style="font-size: 16px;">dredging could pit U.S. ports against each other, the result</span>// of which //<span style="font-size: 16px;">could impact commerce and national </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">security. The concept also alters the fundamental Federal role</span> in maintaining the national navigation system. Like a tonnage tax, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">local funding,</span>// if passed on to port users, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">could increase transportation costs, pricing bulk commodities out of international markets</span>// either through increased charges at the currently utilized port(s) or by increasing inland transportation costs due to diversion from the inland waterway system. Recognizing that these options could be injurious to the nation’s trading position, and to individual ports, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Congress</span> in 1986 chose to <span style="font-size: 16px;">enact a uniform</span> ad valorem tax on cargo. By applying a uniform fee on all cargo moving through any port in the country, the tax did not affect the <span style="font-size: 16px;">competitive position of any port.</span> (This is true relative to U.S. ports, but ignores the fact that cargo has been diverted to Canadian ports to avoid paying the fee.) Q. How about asking other waterways users to pay for dredging? A. Other options for raising revenue from direct users of the navigation channels are not likely to produce sufficient funds. In addition, direct navigation users are already significantly taxed. A 1993 General Accounting Office study found that 12 Federal agencies levy 117 assessments on waterborne trade. In 1996, receipts from these fees were 154 percent of the level raised only ten years earlier, making our exports more expensive and less competitive in international markets. Q. How is maintenance of inland waterways funded? A. In contrast to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, on the inland waterways operations and maintenance costs are paid out of the General Treasury and new construction costs are funded, in part, by an inland waterways fuel tax. Q. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">If the Federal Government were to stop</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">dredging</span>// all but a few major ports, what would happen? A. In many communities, ports represent economic development and other economic activities, not just traditional port activities. Ports are just one part of the much broader intermodal transportation/trade routing system. The view that many "inefficient" ports may disappear in favor of huge mega ports does not take into full account the local interest and investment in deep draft ports. Within the national transportation system there is room for a diverse array of ports to serve niche cargo and economic development needs in local communities. A diverse multitude of ports will get consumers the most cost-effective prices with a variety of product styles, qualities and costs. With fewer port options, shippers’ costs could increase. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bulk commodities could be priced out of international markets either through increased charges</span>// at current ports or by increasing inland transportation costs due to diversion from the inland waterway system. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Trade is expected to triple by</span> the year <span style="font-size: 16px;">2020.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">A few ports will be unable to handle the</span>//tremendous //<span style="font-size: 16px;">influx of cargo</span>// if shippers’ options are limited.

A strong industry is key to sea-power and hegemony – the impact is global conflict
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">If the Navy’s assumption is mistaken that current political leadership will agree to large future increases in shipbuilding we will be headed toward a kind of naval holiday. The equally optimistic expectation that average ship costs can be maintained at $2 billion dollars per vessel prolongs the holiday. This will not be a pleasant holiday. China’s economy has its problems but it continues to perform. Janes Defence Forecasts says that China will double its defense budget between now and 2015.iii Russia plans a $160 billion dollar naval expansion in the Pacific which is to include 36 new submarines and 40 surface ships.iv </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">If a couple postpones needed repairs </span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">on their home </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">for a decade and then decides to fix all that has broken they will be very lucky to finish the job</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> in a year. They will also be fortunate because other more prudent owners will have sustained the home repair industry. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Our shipbuilding industry </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">does not have the benefit of other purchasers</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">who can sustain it </span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">if Navy budgets prove unequal to the task. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">For the industrial base that supports U.S. shipbuilding a</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> budget-induced </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">naval holiday would be a disaster</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">that could take decades—</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">if ever</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">—from which to recover</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> accelerating cost, an ageing workforce, reduced orders for warships, and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">an uncertain future risk the nation’s ability to turn out sufficient numbers of vessels</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> at affordable prices and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">profitably enough to keep shipbuilding companies alive</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The destabilization of the American shipbuilding industrial base</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is one reason that the cost of warships is outpacing the rate of inflation</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. The Navy’s reduced procurement of ships over the past twenty years has caused the industry to contract, lay off workers, and in general to become less reliable. This has driven up the cost of labor and the cost of construction materials. The fewer ships the Navy buys, the less lucrative the industry is for skilled workers. As the cost of labor rises shipbuilders are increasingly pressed to attract and train qualified personnel. The negative trends reinforce each other. As younger workers are dissuaded from seeking employment or remaining in the industry by the prospects of sporadic employment those who remain—the existing workers—age. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The cycle is self-defeating</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Paying older workers increases overhead costs and makes it increasingly expensive to invest in the training and education of a younger workforce. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The destabilization</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of the industrial base also </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">causes costs to rise</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> since many of the materials and products that go into building Navy ships are not useful for other purposes. Since the Navy is buying far fewer ships now than it did in the 1980s, many shipyards rely on a single source for necessary materials. With a virtual monopoly on these products, the suppliers have in large part the ability to name their price. The inefficient manner in which the shipyards acquire these materials drives up labor and overhead costs. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The solution lies in stabilizing the American shipbuilding industry</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. This means that the Navy must either increase its orders of ships and/or improve its business practices, for example disciplining the changes it requires of shipbuilders once orders have been placed and vessels are under construction. Buying and stockpiling spare parts for ships that are already in service and whose need for regular maintenance and repair is well known would also help provide stability for the American shipbuilding industry. In a study conducted on the subject in 2006, the RAND Corporation concluded that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the rising costs of building ships is the result of a combination of</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> unsteady U.S. Government procurement rates and a “monopsony relationship” between the government and the shipbuilders. In a monopsony a single purchaser is faced with a host of sellers. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Because there is so little American shipbuilding outside of what the Navy purchases, U.S. firms are at the commercial mercy</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of the 9 percent of the Navy budget devoted to buying ships. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">A</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> 2005 </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">G</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">overnment </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">A</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">ccountability </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">O</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">ffice </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">report attributed cost increases in shipbuilding </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">to instability in the entire industry</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> the difficulty in recruiting and training qualified personnel, high rates of skilled personnel turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base. Finally </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">there are the consequences </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">if U.S. seapower continues to decrease</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and proves unable to meet even the reduced goals it has set for itself. History is a good guide. Nations in the middle like to side with the winner. During our Civil War British political leadership considered recognizing the Confederacy but was eventually dissuaded by Union military success. In World War II Sweden declared neutrality but grew increasingly amenable to Allied requests as Germany’s military position worsened. Romania initially sided with Germany in the same war but changed sides following U.S. attacks on their oil fields and a coup that deposed the pro-German dictator, Antonescu. Bulgarians followed a similar path from siding with the Nazis to switching their allegiance to the Allies in 1944. Saudi Prince Bandar, acknowledging China’s increasing international prominence and power visited Beijing last year and met with President Hu. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">American weakness at sea,especially in the Indo-Pacific will change the current military, diplomatic, and commercial character of the region</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Whether the U.S. fleet shrinks because</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of too little funding or because unreformed procurement </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">practices have raised the price of ships</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> or because ships have been called home to save on operational expense, the result is the same. While we were once present in strength, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">we would be no more</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. A nation burdened with massive debt whose ability to shape world events has been limited in tandem with its capacity to invest in research and technology will have more and more trouble finding markets. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">China’s potential hegemony would not only force its neighbors’ to reconsider whether the U.S. is a reliable ally. It would also become an increasingly powerful magnet</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> for trade in the region—at </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the expense of U.S. commerce. Unlike the U.S. whose seapower has protected global sea lanes that other states have used to their benefit </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">China has a different set of values</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. It views with suspicion a liberal trading system notwithstanding the benefits received from it. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">China’s friends include Iran and North Korea</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Beijing is a poor candidate to support the international order that has been the keel of U.S. foreign and security policy for a century. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Waning U.S. seapower </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is an invitation that China will regard as a complement to its rising</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> military and navy</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in particular. It foreshadows </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">a coercive resolution</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of territorial disputes in the</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">outh </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">C</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">hina </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">ea, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the likelihood of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">an increased regional arms race</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and the troubling international perception that theU.S. is</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">—</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">or has—</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">abandoned its role as a great power</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">American seapower is the strategic keel of our foreign and security policy</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Reducing it would be an exercise of history-making shortsightedness. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Restoring it would be an act of statesmanship from which Americans and all who cherish political liberty would benefit for the remainder of this century</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Thank you. </span>

US power is the most peaceful
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Busby, 12</span> [Get Real Chicago IR guys out in force, Josh, Assistant Professor of Public Affairs and a fellow in the RGK Center for Philanthropy and Community Service as well as a Crook Distinguished Scholar at the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law. [[http://duckofminerva.blogspot.com/2012/01/get-real-chicago-ir-guys-out-in-force.html]]]
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Is Unipolarity Peaceful?</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">As evidence, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Monteiro provides metrics of the number of years during which great powers have been at war.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> For the unipolar era since the end of the Cold War, the United States has been at war 13 of those 22 years or 59% (see his Table 2 below). Now, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">I've been following</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> some of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the discussion by</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> and about Steven </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Pinker</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> and Joshua Goldstein's work </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">that suggests </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the world is becoming more peaceful</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">with </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">interstate wars and intrastate </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">wars becoming more rare</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">. I was struck by the graphic that Pinker used in a Wall Street Journal piece back in September that drew on the Uppsala Conflict Data, which shows a steep decline in the number of deaths per 100,000 people. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">How do we square this account by Monteiro of a unipolar world that is not peaceful</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">with the U.S. at war during this period in Iraq twice, Afghanistan, Kosovo</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">andPinker's account which suggests declining violence in the contemporary period</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Where Pinker is focused on systemic outcomes, Monteiro's measure merely reflect years during which the great powers are at war</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Under unipolarity, there is only one great power so the measure is partial and not systemic. However, Monteiro's theory aims to be systemic rather than partial. In critiquing Wohlforth's early work on unipolarity stability, Monteiro notes: Wohlforth’s argument does not exclude all kinds of war. Although power preponderance allows the unipole to manage conflicts globally, this argument is not meant to apply to relations between major and minor powers, or among the latter (17). So presumably, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">a more adequate test of the peacefulness or not of unipolarity</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (at least for Monteiro) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">is notthe number of years the great power has been atwar but whether the system as a whole is becoming more peaceful underunipolarity</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> compared</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> to previous eras, including wars between major and minor powers or wars between minor powers and whether the wars that do happen are as violent as the ones that came before. Now, as Ross Douthat pointed out, Pinker's argument isn't based on a logic of benign hegemony. It could be that even if the present era is more peaceful, unipolarity has nothing to do with it. Moreover, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Pinker may be wrong</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Maybe the world isn't all that peaceful. I keep thinking about the places I don't want to go to anymore because they are violent (Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, Nigeria, Pakistan, etc.) As Tyler Cowen [[http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2011/10/steven-pinker-on-violence.html|noted]], the measure Pinker uses to suggest violence is a per capita one, which doesn't get at the absolute level of violence perpetrated in an era of a greater world population. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">But, if my read of other </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.hsrgroup.org/human-security-reports/20092010/graphs-and-tables.aspx|reports]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> basedon Uppsala data is right</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">war is becoming more rare and less deadly</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (though later data suggests lower level armed conflict may be increasing again since the mid-2000s). The apparent violence of the contemporary era may be something of a presentist bias and reflect our own lived experience and the ubiquity of news media</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> .Even if the U.S. has been at war for the better part of unipolarity, the deadliness is declining, even compared with Vietnam, let alone World War II.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Does Unipolarity Drive Conflict? So</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, I</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> kind of took </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">issue with the Monteiro's premise that unipolarity is not peaceful</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. What about his argument that unipolarity drives conflict? Monteiro suggests that the unipole has three available strategies - defensive dominance, offensive dominance and disengagement - though is less likely to use the third. Like Rosato and Schuessler, Monteiro suggests because other states cannot trust the intentions of other states, namely the unipole, that minor states won't merely bandwagon with the unipole. Some "recalcitrant" minor powers will attempt to see what they can get away with and try to build up their capabilities. As an aside, in Rosato and Schuessler world, unless these are located in strategically important areas (i.e. places where there is oil), then the unipole (the United States) should disengage. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">In Monteiro's world</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">disengagement would inexorably </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">lead to instability</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">draw in the U.S. again</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (though I'm not sure this necessarily follows), but neither defensive or offensive dominance offer much possibility for peace either since it is U.S. power in and of itself that makes other states insecure, even though they can't balance against it.</span>


===Contention 2 is Solvency=== 

Plan is the key to LNG exports
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

Shipping Capacity The <span style="font-size: 16px;">successful export of LNG will </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">depend upon</span>// the <span style="font-size: 16px;">necessary shipping infrastructure and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">capacity being in place.</span>// Cheniere Energy is looking to export up to 2.2 bcf/day of gas from its Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana. 39 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Depending on the size of the</span> LNG <span style="font-size: 16px;">vessel</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">this would require between three and five supertankers</span> per week. In order <span style="font-size: 16px;">to accommodate this volume</span> of large ships, <span style="font-size: 16px;">some </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">domestic U.S. ports will require additional dredging</span>//. Other shipping-related concerns include security of vessels and the adequacy of Coast Guard capacity to provide that security (exporters must meet Coast Guard Waterway Suitability, Security, and Emergency standards prior to approval); and the capacity of sea lanes, particularly to Asia. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Increasing shipments to Asia will depend on the capacity of the Panama Canal, which is currently too small</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">to accommodate most LNG tankers.</span>// However, <span style="font-size: 16px;">after the</span> planned <span style="font-size: 16px;">expansion</span> of the canal is completed—expected to be in 2014—roughly //<span style="font-size: 16px;">80 percent</span>// of the world’s LNG tankers //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will be able to pass through</span>// the isthmus, resulting in a dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia. 40

No barriers besides the plan
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

We will discuss more about the global LNG market in the implications section. However, I will mention three major factors that have a significant bearing on //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the United States's ability to export LNG.</span>// The first is <span style="font-size: 16px;">the widening of the Panama Canal,</span> expected to be completed in 2014. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Currently, very few LNG tankers can traverse the isthmus.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 16px;">After its widening, however, it is estimated that 80 percent of the world's LNG tankers will be able to pass through.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">This will make Gulf Coast LNG exports to Asia instantly more economical.</span>// The second is the impact of various <span style="font-size: 16px;">national nuclear energy policies on gas demand</span>. Germany's decision to accelerate the phase-out of its nuclear power plants //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will significantly increase the demand for natural gas</span>//. A similar decision by Japan, where the public is clearly wary of nuclear energy in the wake of the Fukushima accident, has led to a significant boost to the country's gas demand for LNG. Finally, the spread of the unconventional gas revolution potentially to new markets such as China, India, Ukraine and Poland could change the fortunes of the LNG market if these countries develop what some people believe are very, very high shale gas reserves. While technical and regulatory obstacles may delay the prospect for rapid shale development in the near term, it may place demand for LNG in the decades to come. And this is a very difficult fact when you consider that when you sign one of these contracts to export LNG to your buyers you have to make assumptions about what your competitive position is for 25 years down the road. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Taking into account the various factors that have an impact on the feasibility of natural gas </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">exports, the study concludes</span>// that based on our existing knowledge, and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the existing and proposed</span>// policy and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">regulatory landscape</span>//, <span style="font-size: 16px;">exports are</span> technically and logistically <span style="font-size: 16px;">feasible.</span>In other words, <span style="font-size: 16px;">there are no insurmountable barriers to the U.S. going ahead with exports of LNG</span>. And it is important to note that while we highlight some of //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the issues that are likely to affect the economics of LNG exports,</span>// such as securing financing and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the fixed costs of</span>// liquefaction and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">transportation,</span>// it was not our study's objective to come to a conclusion on the economic feasibility of exports for those companies considering doing so. Rather, we believe that the market will determine which of the proposed projects move ahead or don't.

All applications will be approved
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Winston</span>, writer for Platts Inside F.E.R.C., 7/9/<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span> (Kate, “Despite DOE permit hiatus, Oregon LNG seeks to start FERC pre-filing for export plan,” Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Fourteen companies have applied to DOE to export</span> a combined 18.7 Bcf/d of <span style="font-size: 16px;">gas</span> as LNG. DOE has authorized 11 companies to ship LNG to FTA nations, but it has only authorized one terminal — Cheniere Energy's Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana — to export to non-FTA countries as well (IF, 23 April, 1). <span style="font-size: 16px;">The department plans to hold off on approving more non-FTA export applications until it has completed</span> the second of a pair of <span style="font-size: 16px;">studies</span> on the domestic impacts of LNG exports, which is due in late summer. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">But Hansen expressed optimism that DOE will approve these permits after the hiatus is over</span>//. It would be hard for DOE to restrict exports to non-FTA countries because it would run afoul of World Trade Organization rules, he explained. "<span style="font-size: 16px;">We think these exports will be forthcoming</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">we don't see any reason they shouldn't</span>," <span style="font-size: 16px;">he said</span>. In addition, it would be hard for the White House to ignore the economic benefits of exports, Hansen said. "<span style="font-size: 16px;">I don't think this administration will attempt to interfere with exports</span> because the huge jobs and trade balance impacts are quite clear," he said, adding, "I think there is a growing recognition that we have to put people to work. We import, so we have export something." [Hansen = project manager for Oregon LNG]

Export application approval inevitable
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Geman,</span> The Hill, 12-9-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">12</span> (Ben, “Shell’s US chief sees Obama approving ‘phased’ natural-gas exports,” 12-9-12, http:~/~/thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/271829-com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/271829-shells-us-chief-sees-obama-blessing-phased-gas-exports, accessed 12-24-12)
Marvin Odum, the head of Royal Dutch Shell’s U.S. arm, predicts //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the federal government will provide a green light for expanded exports of natural gas</span>//. Odum, the president of Shell Oil Co., said he envisions “<span style="font-size: 16px;">phased” approvals.</span>“The expectation I would try and lead people to is, <span style="font-size: 16px;">this is going to happen in a phased manner</span>. My expectation is //<span style="font-size: 16px;">we will get</span>//some //<span style="font-size: 16px;">permits approved</span>// for some degree of export relatively //<span style="font-size: 16px;">soon,”</span>// Odum said in interview broadcast Sunday on Platts Energy Week TV. Odum envisions that <span style="font-size: 16px;">more exports will be approved as the U.S. gas production boom continues</span>, which will provide a “stronger belief in the resilience and the duration of these resources.” The Energy Department (DOE) is weighing 15 politically controversial applications to export over 21 billion cubic feet of liquefied natural gas per day to nations that don't have free-trade agreements with the U.S. A range of companies are seeking to export gas from the Gulf Coast, Oregon, Maryland and elsewhere. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Export advocates scored a win last week</span> with the December 5 release of <span style="font-size: 16px;">a DOE-</span>commissioned<span style="font-size: 16px;">report</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">called gas exports a</span> net economic <span style="font-size: 16px;">benefit</span> to the United States.

Federal investment is key
Davy <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, Chesapeake Energy (CHK) and General Electric (GE) announced a collaboration with the goal of increasing domestic natural gas consumption via CNG///<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG in the transportation chain</span>// (read the press release here). While the announcement has little-to-no impact on either company's current business, it may prove beneficial to Chesapeake down the line. While Chesapeake has publicly advocated for adopting CNG more broadly //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in the US transportation infrastructure</span>//, many //<span style="font-size: 16px;">market watchers have pinned hopes of </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">a revival in</span>// natural gas prices //<span style="font-size: 16px;">on LNG exports</span>//, which would open abundant shale gas to the world market where gas prices are multiples of the current domestic price around $2.25. While //<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG export capacity will require heavy investment and federal</span>//approval, this is a more //<span style="font-size: 16px;">centralized and direct</span>//path towards //<span style="font-size: 16px;">monetization of</span>//shale gas than switching huge swaths of //<span style="font-size: 16px;">American transport infrastructure</span>//over //<span style="font-size: 16px;">to support</span>//CNG and at this point in time, exported gas is much closer to reality. Cheniere Energy (LNG) has secured approval from the US Department of Energy to build the first //<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG export terminal</span>//to export gas abroad (DOE approval is needed to export to non-free-trade agreement countries). Recently, the company announced a $2B deal between its subsidiary, Cheniere Energy Partners (CQP) and Blackstone (BX) to help fund the construction.

AND – Others decimate the industry
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should the Federal Government pay for maintenance dredging? A. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Investment decisions made by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the Federal Government</span>//, local ports and the private sector <span style="font-size: 16px;">have been based on the expectation that the Federal Government will continue to fund maintenance dredging</span>. These local investments have created the system of ports the nation relies on to meet its national defense needs and growing international trade. The benefits of safe and efficient //<span style="font-size: 16px;">trade provided by a national system </span>//of navigation channels are spread throughout the country. In addition, the benefits to the nation resulting from national defense, commercial fishing, and recreational users are immeasurable. The costs for dredging Federal navigation channels should be spread across the whole nation because all citizens benefit. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Federal government recognized</span>// this long ago //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in the</span>// U.S. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Constitution.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">Based on the</span>// U.S. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Supreme Court decision</span>// and the rancorous debate about the fee in the 1980s, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">any alternative</span>// trade/tax/user fee funding mechanism //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will have significant legal and political challenges</span>// to overcome. Q. Why not assess a vessel tonnage fee to pay for maintenance dredging? A. The assessment of a tonnage fee on cargo or vessels would severely affect bulk commodities, such as grain or coal, which compete in international markets where pennies a ton can make or break a sale. For example, maintaining a channel at 43 feet instead of 44 feet may mean the difference of 750 fewer tons of coal loaded on a single ship, often five percent of a ship’s total cargo potential. These shipments, which are amongst our Nation’s leading export products, now use the most cost-effective route--typically moving by barges down rivers to coastal harbors. Those harbors, in turn, tend to require significant maintenance dredging because of the river sediment. In general, dredging demands related to the shipping of these types of export products are greater than those related to import products. Q. Can’t ports pay for their own dredging? A. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Requiring local ports to raise their own funding </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">for</span>// maintenance //<span style="font-size: 16px;">dredging could pit U.S. ports against each other, the result</span>// of which //<span style="font-size: 16px;">could impact commerce and national </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">security. The concept also alters the fundamental Federal role</span> in maintaining the national navigation system. Like a tonnage tax, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">local funding,</span>// if passed on to port users, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">could increase transportation costs, pricing bulk commodities out of international markets</span>// either through increased charges at the currently utilized port(s) or by increasing inland transportation costs due to diversion from the inland waterway system. Recognizing that these options could be injurious to the nation’s trading position, and to individual ports, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Congress</span> in 1986 chose to <span style="font-size: 16px;">enact a uniform</span> ad valorem tax on cargo. By applying a uniform fee on all cargo moving through any port in the country, the tax did not affect the <span style="font-size: 16px;">competitive position of any port.</span> (This is true relative to U.S. ports, but ignores the fact that cargo has been diverted to Canadian ports to avoid paying the fee.) Q. How about asking other waterways users to pay for dredging? A. Other options for raising revenue from direct users of the navigation channels are not likely to produce sufficient funds. In addition, direct navigation users are already significantly taxed. A 1993 General Accounting Office study found that 12 Federal agencies levy 117 assessments on waterborne trade. In 1996, receipts from these fees were 154 percent of the level raised only ten years earlier, making our exports more expensive and less competitive in international markets. Q. How is maintenance of inland waterways funded? A. In contrast to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, on the inland waterways operations and maintenance costs are paid out of the General Treasury and new construction costs are funded, in part, by an inland waterways fuel tax. Q. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">If the Federal Government were to stop</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">dredging</span>// all but a few major ports, what would happen? A. In many communities, ports represent economic development and other economic activities, not just traditional port activities. Ports are just one part of the much broader intermodal transportation/trade routing system. The view that many "inefficient" ports may disappear in favor of huge mega ports does not take into full account the local interest and investment in deep draft ports. Within the national transportation system there is room for a diverse array of ports to serve niche cargo and economic development needs in local communities. A diverse multitude of ports will get consumers the most cost-effective prices with a variety of product styles, qualities and costs. With fewer port options, shippers’ costs could increase. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bulk commodities could be priced out of international markets either through increased charges</span>// at current ports or by increasing inland transportation costs due to diversion from the inland waterway system. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Trade is expected to triple by</span> the year <span style="font-size: 16px;">2020.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">A few ports will be unable to handle the</span>//tremendous //<span style="font-size: 16px;">influx of cargo</span>// if shippers’ options are limited.

===Contention 3 is Iran=== 

US gas supply prevents Iran influence and proliferation through international cooperation on sanctions
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Medlock et al. 11</span> - Dr. Kenneth B. Medlock, Ph.D. in economics, fellow in Energy and Resource Economics at the Baker Institute, and former advisor to the U.S. Department of Energy and the California Energy Commission, AND*** Amy Myers Jaffe, graduate from Princeton University, fellow of Energy Studies and director of the Energy Forum at the Baker Institute, and associate director of the Rice Energy Program, AND*** Dr. Peter R. Hartley, Ph.D in economics at Rice University, July 2011, "Shale Gas and U.S. National Security,” http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-DOEShaleGas-07192011.pdf
At the present time, <span style="font-size: 16px;">economic sanctions against Tehran have been inhibiting natural gas export project development in Iran. </span>This includes both its previously planned South Pars LNG export projects and a proposed pipeline to Pakistan and India. <span style="font-size: 16px;">With no signs of conflict resolution between Iran and the West in sight, it is assumed that the development of Iranian export projects could not begin until 2020 at the earliest.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Greater shale gas production in the United States, and eventually Europe, will also make it </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">more difficult for Iran to profit</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> from exporting natural gas. Since Iran is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">currently hampered by Western sanctions against investment in its energy sector</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, by the time it can get its natural gas ready for export, the marketing window to Europe will likely be closed by the availability of shale gas. This reality may give the United States and its allies </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">more leverage over Iran</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> for a longer period of time, helping to shape </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">outcomes in the Middle East more positive</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> for U.S. and allied interests.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran is more likely to become a much larger exporter in the case in which no new shale is developed</span> (Scenario Two), primarily <span style="font-size: 16px;">because of greater LNG demand from the United States. </span>In the Reference Case, Iran only emerges as an LNG exporter in the late 2020s and its market position is more limited. However, in the constrained shale case (Scenario Two), Iranian LNG exports grow more quickly and, by 2040, they are about 75 percent higher than in the Reference Case. Thus, <span style="font-size: 16px;">shale gas plays an instrumental role in delaying the opening for Iran to sell its natural gas, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">thwarting its ability in the near term</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to use natural gas exports as a means to develop bilateral relations with major gas consuming countries and limiting its opportunity to use </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">energy diplomacy to strengthen its regional position</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">29 or buttress its </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">pursuit of nuclear weapons</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> Although there are many complex factors that influence Iran’s political leverage globally, the circumstance of <span style="font-size: 16px;">lower requirements for Iranian natural gas</span> could <span style="font-size: 16px;">make it easier for the United States to achieve buy-in for </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">continued economic sanctions</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> against Iran. Lower interest in Iranian gas reduces the chances that Iran can use its energy resources to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">drive a wedge in the international coalition against it</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.By delaying theneed for Iranian gas</span> by over a decade, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the United States buys time </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">to find a better solution to the</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Iranian nuclear problem</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and leaves open the possibility that political change will take place in Iran before its influence as a major global natural gas supplier grows.</span> In addition, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the long delay</span> in the commerciality of Iranian gas <span style="font-size: 16px;">means that Tehran will have trouble getting Asian pipelines to India or Pakistan off the ground with mutually acceptable terms, thereby reducing—for at least the time being—a potential source of tension between the United States and India.</span>30

Iranian influence causes nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ben-Meir 7</span> – Alon Ben-Meir, professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU, UPI, February 6, 2007, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”
That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every sphere of American influence in the Middle East attests to the dismal failure of the Bush administration's policy toward it during the last six years. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Feeling </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">emboldened and unrestrained</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, Tehran may</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 16px;">miscalculate the consequences of its own actions, which could </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">precipitate</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a catastrophic regional war</span>//. The Bush administration has less than a year to rein in Iran's reckless behavior if it hopes to prevent such an ominous outcome and achieve, at least, a modicum of regional stability. By all assessments, Iran has reaped the greatest benefits from the Iraq war. The war's consequences and the American preoccupation with it have provided Iran with an historic opportunity to establish Shiite dominance in the region while aggressively pursuing a nuclear weapon program to deter any challenge to its strategy. Tehran is fully cognizant that <span style="font-size: 16px;">the successful pursuit of its regional hegemony has now become intertwined with the clout that a nuclear program bestows</span>. Therefore, it is most unlikely that Iran will give up its nuclear ambitions at this juncture, unless it concludes that the price will be too high to bear. That is, whereas before the Iraq war Washington could deal with Iran's nuclear program by itself, now the Bush administration must also disabuse Iran of the belief that it can achieve its regional objectives with impunity. Thus, while the administration attempts to stem the Sunni-Shiite violence in Iraq to prevent it from engulfing other states in the region, Washington must also take a clear stand in Lebanon. Under no circumstances should Iranian-backed Hezbollah be allowed to topple the secular Lebanese government. If this were to occur, it would trigger not only a devastating civil war in Lebanon but a wider Sunni-Shiite bloody conflict. The Arab Sunni states, especially, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Jordan, are terrified of this possible outcome. For them Lebanon may well provide the litmus test of the administration's resolve to inhibit Tehran's adventurism but they must be prepared to directly support U.S. efforts. In this regard, the Bush administration must wean Syria from Iran. This move is of paramount importance because not only could Syria end its political and logistical support for Hezbollah, but it could return Syria, which is predominantly Sunni, to the Arab-Sunni fold. President Bush must realize that Damascus' strategic interests are not compatible with Tehran's and the Assad regime knows only too well its future political stability and economic prosperity depends on peace with Israel and normal relations with the United States. President Bashar Assad may talk tough and embrace militancy as a policy tool; he is, however, the same president who called, more than once, for unconditional resumption of peace negotiation with Israel and was rebuffed. The stakes for the United States and its allies in the region are too high to preclude testing Syria's real intentions which can be ascertained only through direct talks. It is high time for the administration to reassess its policy toward Syria and begin by abandoning its schemes of regime change in Damascus. Syria simply matters; the administration must end its efforts to marginalize a country that can play such a pivotal role in changing the political dynamic for the better throughout the region. Although ideally direct negotiations between the United States and Iran should be the first resort to resolve the nuclear issue, as long as Tehran does not feel seriously threatened, it seems unlikely that the clergy will at this stage end the nuclear program. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In possession of nuclear weapons Iran will intimidate the larger Sunni Arab states in the region, bully smaller states into submission, </span>threaten Israel's very existence, use oil as a political weapon to blackmail the West <span style="font-size: 16px;">and instigate regional proliferation of nuclear weapons' programs. In short, if unchecked, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran could plunge the Middle East into</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a deliberate or inadvertent nuclear conflagration</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> If we take the administration at its word that it would not tolerate a nuclear Iran and considering these regional implications, Washington is left with no choice but to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.

Sanctions prevent a nuclear Iran
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rubin 12</span> – Michael Rubin, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, January 4, 2012, “The West should hand Iran's leadership a chalice of poison,” http://www.aei.org/article/foreign-and-defense-policy/the-west-should-hand-irans-leadership-a-chalice-of-poison/
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">To relieve</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> economic and military pressure on Iran would be counterproductive.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">So long as Iran does not attain nuclear weapons</span>, its <span style="font-size: 16px;">threats to close the Strait</span> of Hormuz <span style="font-size: 16px;">remain</span> simple <span style="font-size: 16px;">bluster</span>. If Iran is allowed to develop nuclear weapons, all bets are off. Tehran's ability to amplify its leverage over the international economy would increase exponentially.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> Make no mistake: <span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran cannot close the Strait</span> of Hormuz <span style="font-size: 16px;">for more than a day</span>. When its navy mined the Persian Gulf in 1988, damaging a US vessel, president Ronald Reagan responded with Operation Praying Mantis, decimating the Iranian navy, a bloody nose that led Tehran to respect international waters for more than two decades.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> Nor can Iran itself afford a closure of the strait. Not only does it need to export oil itself through the waterway, but, because of decades of financial mismanagement, it also depends on the strait for the import of refined petroleum products.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> Without imported gasoline to fuel its car and factories, Iran's economy would grind to a halt. To close the strait even for a day would do far more economic damage to Iran than it would to Australia, east Asia or the West.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> The leadership in Tehran knows better than anyone that every time Iran has experienced a fuel shortage, protesters have poured into the streets.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">Despite bluster that sanctions have had no effect</span>, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">ian behaviour suggests the opposite</span>//. Both the March 2007 Iranian attack on British sailors in the waters between Iraq and Iran, and the November 2011 attack on the British embassy in Tehran, came two days after the British government lent its support to new sanctions. Both attacks were overreactions that belied Tehran's insistence that sanctions are meaningless.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">Even Iranian parliamentarians do not buy their government's rhetoric</span>. Last month, <span style="font-size: 16px;">30 representatives called for a closed session of the parliament</span> in order <span style="font-size: 16px;">to dispense with polemic and to discuss sanctions truthfully.</span> Abolghasem <span style="font-size: 16px;">Mozaffari</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the head of the Revolutionary Guards' economic wing, confessed</span>that <span style="font-size: 16px;">''the sanctions have not been without impact''</span>.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran's current provocations may have more to do with its own </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">desperation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">than any</span> real <span style="font-size: 16px;">grievance</span>. After the US Congress imposed unilateral sanctions on Iran last month, Iran's currency lost nearly half its value. Unemployment and inflation are both in double digits.

A nuclear Iran causes rapid global proliferation, nuclear terrorism, and Middle East nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lindsay 10</span> – James M. Lindsay 10, Senior Vice President, Director of Studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations and Ray Takeyh is a Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, After Iran Gets the Bomb, Foreign Affairs, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 89, Issue 2
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The dangers of Iran's entry into the nuclear club are well known</span>: <span style="font-size: 16px;">emboldened</span> by this development, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Tehran might multiply its attempts at subverting its neighbors and encouraging terrorism against the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 16px;">and Israel</span>; //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the risk of both conventional and </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear war in the Middle East would escalate;</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> more states</span>// in the region //<span style="font-size: 16px;">might</span>// also want to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">become</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear</span>// powers; the <span style="font-size: 16px;">geopolitical balance in the Middle East would be reordered</span>; and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">broader efforts to stop the spread of nuc</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">lear weapons would be undermined. </span>//The advent of <span style="font-size: 16px;">a nuclear Iran</span>--even one that is satisfied with having only the materials and infrastructure necessary to assemble a bomb on short notice rather than a nuclear arsenal--<span style="font-size: 16px;">would be</span> seen as a <span style="font-size: 16px;">major diplomatic defeat for the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span>tates. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Friends and foes would</span> openly <span style="font-size: 16px;">question the U.S.</span> government's <span style="font-size: 16px;">power and resolve to shape events in the Middle East.Friends would respond</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">by distancing themselves from Washington</span>//; //<span style="font-size: 16px;">foes would challenge U.S. policies more aggressively.</span>//

Proliferation will be fast and destabilizing – guarantees nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Evans and Kawaguchi 9 (</span>Gareth, Chancellor of the Australian National University, an Honorary Professorial Fellow at the University of Melbourne and President Emeritus of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group, and Yoriko Kawaguchi, Member of the House of Councillors for the Liberal Democratic Party since 2005. She was Special Adviser to the Prime Minister of Japan, “Eliminating Nuclear Threats,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, [[http://www.icnnd.org/reference/reports/ent/part-ii-3.html]])
3.1 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Ensuring that no new states join the ranks of those already nuclear armed must continue to be one of the world’s top </span>international security <span style="font-size: 16px;">priorities. Every new nuclear-armed state will add significantly to the inherent risks – of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">accident</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> or </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">miscalculation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> as well as </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">deliberate use</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> – involved in any possession of these weapons, and potentially encourage more states to acquire nuclear weapons</span> to avoid being left behind. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Any scramble for nuclear capabilities is bound to generate severe instability</span> in bilateral, regional and international relations. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The carefully worked checks and balances of interstate relations will come under severe stress. There will be enhanced fears of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear blackmail</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, and of irresponsible and unpredictable leadership behaviour</span>. 3.2 <span style="font-size: 16px;">In conditions of inadequate command and control systems, absence of confidence building measures and multiple agencies in the nuclear weapons chain of authority, the possibility of an accidental or maverick usage of nuclear weapons will remain high</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Unpredictable elements of risk and reward will impact on decision making processes. The dangers are compounded if the new and aspiring nuclear weapons states have</span>, as is likely to be the case<span style="font-size: 16px;">, ongoing inter-state disputeswith ideological, territorial, historical</span> – <span style="font-size: 16px;">and </span>for all those reasons, <span style="font-size: 16px;">strongly emotive – dimensions</span>. 3.3 <span style="font-size: 16px;">The transitional period is likely to be most dangerous of all, with the arrival of nuclear weapons tending to be accompanied by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">sabre rattling</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and competitive nuclear chauvinism</span>. For example, as between Pakistan and India a degree of stability might have now evolved, but 1998–2002 was a period of disturbingly fragile interstate relations<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Command and control and risk management of nuclear weapons takes time to evolve</span>. Military and political leadership in new nuclear-armed states need time to learn and implement credible safety and security systems. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The risks of nuclear accidents and the possibility of nuclear action through inadequate crisis control mechanisms are very high</span> in such circumstances. <span style="font-size: 16px;">If this is coupled with political instability</span> in such states, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the risks escalate</span> again. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Where such countries are beset with internal stresses and fundamentalist groups with trans-national agendas, the risk of nuclear weapons or fissile material coming into possession of non‑state actors cannot be ignored</span>. 3.4 The action–reaction cycle of nations on high alerts, of military deployments, threats and counter threats of military action, have all been witnessed in the Korean peninsula with unpredictable behavioural patterns driving interstate relations. The impact of a proliferation breakout in the Middle East would be much wider in scope and make stability management extraordinarily difficult. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Whatever the chances of “stable deterrence” prevailing in a Cold War</span> or India–Pakistan <span style="font-size: 16px;">setting, the prospects are </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">significantly less</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in a regional setting with multiple nuclear power centres divided by multiple and cross-cutting sources of conflict</span>.

Iran prolif increases risk of miscalculated nuke war which no defense assumes
Jeffrey <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Goldberg 1-23</span>, Bloomberg View columnist and a national correspondent for the Atlantic, January 23, 2012, “How Iran Could Trigger Accidental Armageddon,” online: http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/how-iran-may-trigger-accidental-armageddon-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
One of the arguments often made in favor of bombing Iran to cripple its nuclear program is this: The mullahs in Tehran are madmen who believe it is their consecrated duty to destroy the perfidious Zionist entity (which is to say, Israel) and so are building nuclear weapons to launch at Tel Aviv at the first favorable moment. It’s beyond a doubt that the Iranian regime would like to bring about the destruction of Israel. However, the mullahs are also cynics and men determined, more than anything, to maintain their hold on absolute power. Which is why <span style="font-size: 16px;">it’s unlikely</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">they would immediately use their new weapons against Israel</span>. An outright <span style="font-size: 16px;">attack on Israel</span> - - a country possessing as many as 200 nuclear weapons and sophisticated delivery systems -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">would lead to the obliteration of Tehran</span>, the deaths of millions, and the destruction of Iran’s military and industrial capabilities. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The mullahs know this. But</span>// here’s the problem: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">It may not matter</span>//. The <span style="font-size: 16px;">threat of a deliberate</span> nuclear <span style="font-size: 16px;">attack</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">pales in comparison</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">with the chance</span> that a nuclear-armed <span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran could</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">accidentally trigger</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a cataclysmic exchange with Israel</span>//. Warp-Speed Escalation The //<span style="font-size: 16px;">experts</span>// who study this depressing issue seem to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">agree</span>// that <span style="font-size: 16px;">a Middle East in which Iran has</span> four or five <span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear weapons would be</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">dangerously unstable</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and prone to</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">warp-speed escalation</span>//. Here’s one possible scenario for the not-so-distant future: Hezbollah, Iran’s Lebanese proxy, launches a cross-border attack into Israel, or kills a sizable number of Israeli civilians with conventional rockets. Israel responds by invading southern Lebanon, and promises, as it has in the past, to destroy Hezbollah. Iran, coming to the defense of its proxy, warns Israel to cease hostilities, and leaves open the question of what it will do if Israel refuses to heed its demand. Dennis Ross, who until recently served as President Barack Obama’s Iran point man on the National Security Council, notes Hezbollah’s political importance to Tehran. “The only place to which the Iranian government successfully exported the revolution is to Hezbollah in Lebanon,” Ross told me. “If it looks as if the Israelis are going to destroy Hezbollah, you can see Iran threatening Israel, and they begin to change the readiness of their forces. This could set in motion a chain of events that would be like ‘Guns of August’ on steroids.” Imagine that Israel detects a mobilization of Iran’s rocket force or the sudden movement of mobile missile launchers. Does Israel assume the Iranians are bluffing, or that they are not? And would Israel have time to figure this out? Or imagine the opposite: Might Iran, which will have no second-strike capability for many years -- that is, no reserve of nuclear weapons to respond with in an exchange -- feel compelled to attack Israel first, knowing that it has no second chance? Bruce <span style="font-size: 16px;">Blair</span>, the co-founder of the nuclear disarmament group Global Zero and <span style="font-size: 16px;">an expert on nuclear strategy, told me</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">in a sudden crisisIran and Israel might</span> each //<span style="font-size: 16px;">abandon</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> traditional peacetime safeguards</span>//, <span style="font-size: 16px;">making an accidental exchange more likely</span>. “<span style="font-size: 16px;">A confrontation</span> that brings the two nuclear-armed states to a boiling point <span style="font-size: 16px;">would</span> likely <span style="font-size: 16px;">lead them to raise the launch- readiness of their forces</span> -- mating warheads to delivery vehicles and preparing to fire on short notice,” he said. “<span style="font-size: 16px;">Missiles</span> put <span style="font-size: 16px;">on hair-trigger alert</span> also obviously <span style="font-size: 16px;">increase the danger of</span> their <span style="font-size: 16px;">launch</span> and release <span style="font-size: 16px;">on false warning</span> of attack -- false indications that the other side has initiated an attack.” <span style="font-size: 16px;">Then comes the problem of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">misinterpreted data</span>//, Blair said. “Intelligence failures in the midst of a nuclear crisis could readily lead to a false impression that the other side has decided to attack, and induce the other side to launch a preemptive strike.” ‘Cognitive Bias’ Blair notes that <span style="font-size: 16px;">in a crisis it isn’t irrational to expect an attack,</span> and <span style="font-size: 16px;">this</span> expectation <span style="font-size: 16px;">makes it more likely</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">a leader will read the worst</span> into incomplete intelligence. “<span style="font-size: 16px;">This</span> predisposition <span style="font-size: 16px;">is a</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">cognitive bias</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">that increases the danger</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">one side will</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">jump the gun</span>// on the basis of incorrect information,” he said. Ross told me that <span style="font-size: 16px;">Iran’s</span> relative <span style="font-size: 16px;">proximity to Israel and the</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">total absence of ties</span>// between the two countries -- the thought of Iran agreeing to maintain a hot line with a country whose existence it doesn’t recognize is far-fetched -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">make the situation</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">even more hazardous.</span>// “This is not the Cold War,” he said. “In this situation <span style="font-size: 16px;">we don’t have</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">any communications channels</span>//. Iran and Israel have zero communications. And even in the Cold War we nearly had a nuclear war. We were much closer than we realized.” <span style="font-size: 16px;">The answer</span> to this predicament <span style="font-size: 16px;">is to</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">deny Iran nuclear weapons</span>//, but <span style="font-size: 16px;">not through an attack</span> on its nuclear facilities, at least not now. “The liabilities of preemptive attack on Iran’s nuclear program vastly outweigh the benefits,” Blair said. “But certainly Iran’s program must be stopped before it reaches fruition with a nuclear weapons delivery capability.” Ross argues that the Obama administration’s approach -- the <span style="font-size: 16px;">imposition of</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">steadily more debilitating sanctions</span>// -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">may yet work</span>. There’s a chance, albeit slim, that he may be right: <span style="font-size: 16px;">New sanctions are just beginning to bite and</span>, combined with an intensified cyberwar and sabotage efforts, they <span style="font-size: 16px;">might prove</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">costly enough to deter Tehra</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">n.</span>//

There’s a high risk of nuclear terrorism – causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hellman 8</span> [Martin E. Hellman, emeritus prof of engineering @ Stanford, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence” SPRING 2008 THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI, http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The threat of nuclear terrorism looms</span> much larger in the public’s mind than the threat of a full-scale nuclear war, yet this article focuses primarily on the latter. An explanation is therefore in order before proceeding. <span style="font-size: 16px;">A terrorist attack involving a nuclear weapon would be a catastrophe of immense proportions</span>: “A 10-kiloton bomb detonated at Grand Central Station on a typical work day would likely kill some half a million people, and inflict over a trillion dollars in direct economic damage. America and its way of life would be changed forever.” [Bunn 2003, pages viii-ix]. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The likelihood of such an attack is</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> also significant</span>//. Former Secretary of Defense William <span style="font-size: 16px;">Perry</span> has <span style="font-size: 16px;">estimated the chance of a nuclear terrorist incident</span> within the next decade <span style="font-size: 16px;">to be roughly 50 percent</span> [Bunn 2007, page 15]. David Albright, a former weapons inspector in Iraq, estimates those odds at less than one percent, but notes, “We would never accept a situation where the chance of a major nuclear accident like Chernobyl would be anywhere near 1% .... A nuclear terrorism attack is a low-probability event, but we can’t live in a world where it’s anything but extremely low-probability.” [Hegland 2005]. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In a survey of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">85 national security experts</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, Senator Richard Lugar </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">found</span>//a median estimate of 20 percent for the “probability of//<span style="font-size: 16px;">an attack involving a nuclear explosion occurring</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">somewhere in the world </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">in the next 10 years</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">,” with 79 percent of the respondents believing “it more likely to be carried out by terrorists” than by a government </span>[Lugar 2005, pp. 14-15]. I support increased efforts to reduce the threat of nuclear terrorism, but that is not inconsistent with the approach of this article. Because <span style="font-size: 16px;">terrorism is</span> one of <span style="font-size: 16px;">the</span> potential <span style="font-size: 16px;">trigger mechanism</span>s <span style="font-size: 16px;">for a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">full-scale nuclear war</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span>// the risk analyses proposed herein will include estimating the risk of nuclear terrorism as one component of the overall risk. If that risk, the overall risk, or both are found to be unacceptable, then the proposed remedies would be directed to reduce which- ever risk(s) warrant attention. Similar remarks apply to a number of other threats (e.g., nuclear war between the U.S. and China over Taiwan). his article would be incomplete if it only dealt with the threat of nuclear terrorism and neglected the threat of full- scale nuclear war. If both risks are unacceptable, an effort to reduce only the terrorist component would leave humanity in great peril. In fact, <span style="font-size: 16px;">society’s almost total neglect of the threat of full-scale nuclear war makes studying that risk all the more important</span>. The cosT of World War iii The danger associated with nuclear deterrence depends on both the cost of a failure and the failure rate.3 This section explores the cost of a failure of nuclear deterrence, and the next section is concerned with the failure rate. While other definitions are possible, this article defines a failure of deterrence to mean a full-scale exchange of all nuclear weapons available to the U.S. and Russia, an event that will be termed World War III. Approximately 20 million people died as a result of the first World War. World War II’s fatalities were double or triple that number—chaos prevented a more precise deter- mination. In both cases humanity recovered, and the world today bears few scars that attest to the horror of those two wars. Many people therefore implicitly believe that a third World War would be horrible but survivable, an extrapola- tion of the effects of the first two global wars. In that view, World War III, while horrible, is something that humanity may just have to face and from which it will then have to recover. In contrast, some of those most qualified to assess the situation hold a very different view. In a 1961 speech to a joint session of the Philippine Con- gress, General Douglas MacArthur, stated, “Global war has become a Frankenstein to destroy both sides. … If you lose, you are annihilated. If you win, you stand only to lose. <span style="font-size: 16px;">No longer does it possess even the chance of the winner of a duel. It contains now only the germs of double suicide</span>.” Former Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara ex- pressed a similar view: “If deterrence fails and conflict develops, the present U.S. and NATO strategy carries with it a high risk that <span style="font-size: 16px;">Western </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">civilization will be destroyed</span>//” [McNamara 1986, page 6]. More recently, George Shultz, William Perry, Henry Kissinger, and Sam Nunn4 echoed those concerns when they quoted President Reagan’s belief that nuclear weapons were “totally irrational, totally inhu- mane, good for nothing but killing, possibly destructive of life on earth and civilization.” [Shultz 2007] Official studies, while couched in less emotional terms, still convey the horrendous toll that World War III would exact: “<span style="font-size: 16px;">The resulting deaths would be far beyond any precedent</span>. Executive branch calculations show a range of U.S. deaths from 35 to 77 percent (i.e., 79-160 million dead) … a change in targeting could kill somewhere between 20 million and 30 million additional people on each side .... These calculations reflect only deaths during the first 30 days. Additional millions would be injured, and many would eventually die from lack of adequate medical care … millions of people might starve or freeze during the follow- ing winter, but it is not possible to estimate how many. … further millions … might eventually die of latent radiation effects.” [OTA 1979, page 8] This OTA report also noted the possibility of serious ecological damage [OTA 1979, page 9], a concern that as- sumed a new potentiality when the TTAPS report [TTAPS 1983] proposed that the ash and dust from so many nearly simultaneous //<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear explosions</span>// and their resultant fire- storms //<span style="font-size: 16px;">could usher in</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a nuclear winter that might erase homo sapiens from</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the face of the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">earth</span>//, much as many scientists now believe the K-T Extinction that wiped out the dinosaurs resulted from an impact winter caused by ash and dust from a large asteroid or comet striking Earth. The TTAPS report produced a heated debate, and there is still no scientific consensus on whether a nuclear winter would follow a full-scale nuclear war. Recent work [Robock 2007, Toon 2007] suggests that <span style="font-size: 16px;">even a limited nuclear exchange</span> or one between newer nuclear-weapon states, such as India and Pakistan, <span style="font-size: 16px;">could have devastating long-lasting climatic consequences</span> due to the large volumes of smoke that would be generated by fires in modern megacities. While it is uncertain how destructive World War III would be, prudence dictates that we apply the same engi- neering conservatism that saved the Golden Gate Bridge from collapsing on its 50th anniversary and assume that <span style="font-size: 16px;">preventing World War III is a necessity—not an option</span>.








=Round 3= 

===1AC=== 
Aff - said warming and Econ





=Round 4= 

===1NC - PPPs, New Aff's Bad, Immigration, Security, Heg Bad, Doha Bad=== 
===2NR - Security K=== 






=Round 5= 

===1AC - Transportation Rationality=== 

Current transportation systems don’t give a rat’s ass about the public – they focus solely on optimizing ends instead of the people who are actually affected – we have seen this in Minnesota where the Rondo community was decimated by the desire to build a highway right through their homes – people were evicted and forced to leave their way of life while the government took their land from them in the name of economic growth – this focus on optimizing means isn’t unique to Minnesota – economic growth becomes the optimized end instead of public safety – the day the 35W bridge collapsed in Minnesota, Kentucky’s father was driving to the Minnesota Twins game – and had he left 10 minutes early he would have been on the bridge that killed dozens of children and many more – this must come to an end
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Willson 1</span> (RICHARD WILLSON Department of Urban and Regional Planning, California State Polytechnic University, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm” http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The predominant method of transportation planning is instrumental rationality</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">a process of optimizing means</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">(plans and programs) </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">according to identified ends</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">(goals). </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Instrumental rationality requires that the desired ends of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">a unitary decision-maker</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">can be known</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> It assumes that efficient means can be identified using algorithm-like methods. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Instrumental rationality bases reason on logic and scientific empiricism.It maintains</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">what we know is based on what we can observe in a neutral and dispassionate manner</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">. Furthermore, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">it assumes </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">that urban and transportation systems operate in mechanistic, predictable ways</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">– </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">that immutable laws about travel behavior can be discovered and used for prediction</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">. Finally, instrumental rationality assumes that the actors in a planning process are autonomous individuals who refine their knowledge against universal principles, and that planning roles can be divided into various analysis, evaluation and decision-making tasks. In this model, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">planning activities focus on analytic issues such as modeling and forecasting, impact analysis and economic evaluation</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">. Although recent advances in planning theory have had little connection to transportation planning, the roots of transportation lie in classical conceptions of planning. Of the intellectual precursors to planning identified by Friedmann (1987), systems engineering, systems analysis, neo-classical economics, welfare and social choice, scientific management and policy science have shaped the field most strongly. In the US context, Wachs (1985) highlights the influence of progressive era ideas about professionalized planning, where administrative discretion is provided to planners to implement management principles in areas that are too complex for political leaders or the public. The hope was that scientific management principles could be applied to public affairs, much as scientific approaches advanced industrial production, leading to the idea of an expert-led, analytical-based transportation planning. These notions supported a transportation planning process that follows a sequence of steps and treats ends and means separately. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">It is a process in which </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the core problem is optimizing means to achieve ends</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that are derived from decision-makers and society;</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">transportation planners play a technocratic role</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">This model of transportation planning is remarkably unchanged over the last 50 years. Pas (1995), for example, summarizes a step-by-step process that elaborates the classic ends-means process.2 The nine-step process includes the following: 1. Problem and issue identification; 2. formulation of goals and objectives; 3. data collection; 4. generation of alternatives; 5. analysis (including land use-activity system models, urban transportation models and impact analysis models); 6. evaluation (economic and non-economic); 7. decision making; 8. implementation and 9. system monitoring. (p. 60) Figure 1 presents instrumental rationality in a broader decision making context. The diagram shows planning as responding to societal values, public opinion, institutions and stakeholders. These elements are assumed to be independent of the planning activity itself – the planner’s challenge is simply to understand them. Planners, then, assist decision-makers in expressing desired ends. This is often a cursory activity; sometimes it is ignored because it is assumed that goals are self-evident (e.g., enhancing automobile mobility). The main activity of planning, therefore, is designing, analyzing and evaluating alternative means as shown in number two of the numbered boxes in Figure 1. The theory of knowledge, or epistemology, that is implied by instrumental rationality is scientific objectivism. Drawing from the natural sciences, engineering and certain of the social sciences, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">this view assumes that objective facts can be known and that the analyst is able to observe a system without participating in it or effecting it.</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> Furthermore, it is assumed that facts can be separated from subjective information and abstracted from complex social settings. Data analysis and modeling results provide the primary information upon which alternatives are evaluated, information such as level of service, air quality conditions or cost effectiveness. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Objectivist epistemology and instrumental rationality method go hand-in-hand – if one element cannot be supported it is difficult to justify the oth</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">er. Some aspects of the practice of transportation planning are well suited to the traditional focus described above. Many transportation conditions are quantifiable and certain aspects of travel behavior are quite predictable (e.g., traveler route selection). </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Most plans involve complex technical aspects that are suited to a scientific approach. If there is a social consensus about ends and the range of alternatives is within an aspect of travel behavior that is predictable, then the traditional model has much to recommend it. Indeed, the efficiency with which people and goods are moved in developed countries is a testament to the efficiency of these methods.</span>

The reason these disasters happen is because the government can justify its policies through the guise of an ignorant public – we must debate transportation infrastructure as individuals to counter the hegemonic narrative – only when the public is knowledgeable about infrastructure will policies change
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Brown 10</span> — Ernest C. Brown, recognized authority in construction litigation, public works projects and contract management who has resolved more than 2,500 construction disputes, holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an M.S. in Construction Management from the University of California-Berkeley, and a J.D. from the University of California-Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law, 2010 (“California Projects & Delivery Systems,” California Infrastructure Projects: A Guide to Successful Contracting and Dispute Resolution, Published by Ernest Brown & Company, LLC, ISBN 9781576253663, Available Online at http://constructionlawyers.com/CM/book/chapter-01.html, Accessed 07-30-2012)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">While the word “infrastructure” rings widely in public speeches of every political stripe during every election cycle, the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuts and bolts</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of such projects remain largely </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">inaccessible and obscure</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to the voting citizenry</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Yet, a keen understanding of the implications and costs of public infrastructureprojects is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">essential to democracy</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the shape of the future</span>//in California. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The creation of infrastructure is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">a vital process</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that requires a healthy dose of</span> California sunshine and the //<span style="font-size: 16px;">participation of</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> local citizens</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">A knowledgeable citizenry will assure that public projects are responsive to public needs</span>, whether they are schools, parks, marinas, sports arenas, convention centers, public buildings, highways, hospitals, schools, water and wastewater treatment facilities and conveyances, public golf courses or sports fields. These facilities promote a unique and healthy life for our children and a beautiful, unique and pleasant environment for all of California’s 35 million residents. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Each potential project encompasses a unique recipe of planning, architecture, engineering, project finance, construction management and inevitable conflicts</span> and sticky dollops of state and local politics. <span style="font-size: 16px;">There are winners and losers</span>. These projects are the heart and soul of the public expenditure budget. The accomplishments of public projects are built to last, as are their mistakes, and, unlike many current government programs, will be paid for by future generations. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The creation of public infrastructure involves </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">making tough choices about civic priorities</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. The public trough is not limitless. It takes careful stewardship of public funds to meet the essential public needs of transportation</span>, safe water, education, law enforcement and healthcare. While the immediate beneficiaries of a project may be the local residents (neighborhood parks) or the region as a whole (airports), these projects should nurture a larger community and improve public safety, economic security and business prosperity.

That’s why we are here – because transportation literally affects everyone and everything in the United States – the only option we have is to engage in it – but change is possible within this debate space if we focus on democratic dialogue through communicative rationality, which incorporates all voices including those that have been marginalized and excluded from society—our movement allows socially just and equitable transportation planning from a bottom-up approach that is focused on the public instead of the technocrat
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Willson 1</span> (RICHARD WILLSON Department of Urban and Regional Planning, California State Polytechnic University, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm” http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf)
Transportation planners use language as if it mirrors the world. If language is a mirror, then, it is a neutral tool in the service of communicating information. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In most transportation planners’ minds, language describes objective conditions, explains methodologies and expresses values. Numbers, moreover, are a precise form of language that provide unambiguous representations of reality</span>. Are not measures of vehicle flows, level of service or cost effectiveness robust representations of reality? Gridlock is gridlock, right? For planning, however, <span style="font-size: 16px;">gridlock is not gridlock until we have defined it as a problem and decided to do something to address it. Transportation plans depend on what gridlock means, and establishing meaning is an inherently social and linguistically based process. The way that transportation planners use language – understanding certain ideas and values and excluding others, hearing some things and not hearing others, and defining roles for themselves, their organizations, decision makers and the public </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">– shapes knowledge, </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">public participation, problem definition, process design </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and negotiation, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and the outcome </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of planning.</span>// The perspective offered in this paper is that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">language </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">profoundly shapes our view of the world</span>//. The paper critically examines the formal scientific rationality that dominates the field and uses insights from planning practice, social theory and philosophy to explore the promise of communicative rationality as a new paradigm for transportation planning – one in which language and communicative processes form the basis for rational planning. Innovative forms of transportation planning based on theories of communicative rationality hold the promise of solving some of our most difficult transportation planning problems. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The global aim of communicative rationality is to create a rational basis for constructing ends and means in a democratic society,</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">by enriching public and political discourse</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Communicative rationality focuses on interactive processes rather than the deliberative process </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">of a single actor,</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">emphasizing the design of planning processes, participation and learning, and a reconciliation of different ways of understanding planning opportunities.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">It reorients planning from a form </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of scientific, instrumental rationality to a form of reason based on consensual discussion</span>//.1 Alexander (2000) argues that there are many forms of rationality – communicative, instrumental, strategic, and so on – and that the real question is appropriately matching the form of rationality to the planning circumstance. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This paper takes a different approach, anticipating a paradigm shift that will radically change the basis of knowing and the process for making transportation planning decisions</span>. Kuhn (1970) explains that <span style="font-size: 16px;">such shifts only occur when contradictions in the predominant paradigm become grea</span>t //<span style="font-size: 16px;">and a new, more useful paradigm is compelling</span>//.

An example of bottom-up transportation planning would be transportation that focuses on the prevention of sexual violence – today we are here distributing and wearing take back the night pins for victims of sexual violence – yet transportation systems are systemic causes of some of the worst forms of assault – yes they are not the “root cause,” but improving transportation systems would go a long way in protecting everyone – the horrors of Gang Rape in India are not unique to India – but they are one powerful example that we must recognize within the debate community – especially given the debaters against sexism campaign
Raka <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Choudhury</span> is an urban planner, January 9, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2013</span>, 12:01 PM “Delhi Rape: The Need for Better Transport”, [[http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2013/01/09/delhi-rape-the-need-for-better-transport/]], KENTUCKY

<span style="font-size: 16px;">In the aftermath of the horrific rape of a young woman on a Delhi bus last month, we have vented our anger at the accused men, the police, the government, society as a whole and ourselves. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">But one offender is getting away too easily.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">Could this rape and the young woman’s subsequent death have been averted if Delhi had a better bus system and public infrastructure?</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">Violence on buses is,</span>//of course//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, not limited to an Indian context</span>//. Just <span style="font-size: 16px;">recently</span>– on New Year’s Day – <span style="font-size: 16px;">two women were stabbed on a bus in</span>Washington, <span style="font-size: 16px;">D.C</span>., and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in November an 18-year-old disabled woman was raped on a bus in Los Angeles.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">These buses at least had surveillance cameras</span>. The suspect in the L.A. attack has been arrested and charged, while images of the Washington suspects — captured on security cameras as they boarded the bus — have been released to the public, and arrests might not be too far behind. Sadly this didn’t prevent the crimes taking place, but they typically serve as reasonably efficient safety measures that deter criminals. And in both cases, the accountability of the operators and an efficient law-enforcement system resulted in prompt responses to the crimes. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In the Delhi</span> rape, accountability and efficient law-enforcement on the night of the crime were absent. There was no precedence for accountability from a private operator about the whereabouts of his bus or its unusual route as the suspects cruised around the city raping the young woman. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Law enforcement officials didn’t act as the bus allegedly crossed several police checkpoints that night. When the city erupted in anger, they did, but that was too late for the young woman on the bus</span>. DIMTS (Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System), a joint venture between the Delhi government and the IDFC Foundation, is reworking the structure and operation of the city’s bus system. It has created clusters in which bus operating contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and vehicles are being fitted with GPS to track their movements. But //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the change is not happening fast enough</span>//. As this New York Times article notes, Delhi’s //<span style="font-size: 16px;">bus transportation system</span>//, which carries about seven million passengers a day, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">remains “a messy patchwork of public and private operators</span>//.” The Delhi rape victim was running late. If she had known that the wait for her next bus was only another 10 or 20 minutes, she might not have hurried to board that bus. But she probably had no idea how long she’d have to wait for a regular public bus. Real-time bus tracking technology provided online and through apps on smartphones is one of the easiest technology upgrades for a bus system – that is modernized with GPS technology — to make, particularly given India’s high levels of cellphone usage and the IT services it provides to the world. This would be a worthwhile technology investment. Meantime, we are already seeing some disturbing kneejerk reactions that don’t bode well for women in Indian cities. A recent survey by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India found that almost 82% of 2,500 female respondents had started leaving the office earlier, as they were reluctant to come home late after sunset. Unsurprisingly, the women who are most worried are those who use public transport to get to and from work. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Women who commute on buses and the metro might now try to save up for a car,</span>// further clogging India’s congested city roads. This also means that our streets and pedestrian areas, which are already overwhelmed by men, are likely to get even more male-dominated. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">And Delhi, a city comprised of gated enclaves, is inevitably going to try to fortify further to keep the miscreants out, propagating its culture of exclusion and social segregation.</span>// Last year when I was living in Gurgaon, I wrote about how the urban environment was contributing to crime in the city. This still holds true. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">You can be vulnerable to crime when traveling on a bus, when waiting at the bus stop, or when walking between the bus stop and home.</span>//One of the biggest drawbacks of Delhi’s //<span style="font-size: 16px;">bus stops</span>// is that they’re outside the walls of gated communities, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">dark and isolated</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">They would be a lot safer if we could only open up streets visually to the natural surveillance of people behind the walls</span>. Shops or a police booth would bolster activities in the area, without drawing the kind of clientele that a “theka” (an illegal liquor store and bar) or even a chai and cigarette stall might attract. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">An important step in making the city safer is to identify its vulnerable spots</span>//. In Gurgaon, it wasn’t unusual to have to walk past a “theka” en route to a bus stop. Friends told me stories about guns being drawn during drunken brawls at these places. Loitering, leering drunks often hung out there and it was often daunting to walk by. The office parks cropping up all over India empty out in the evenings. Diversifying these areas with restaurants, grocery stores, shops and libraries would help keep them active and safe, attracting a mix of law-abiding men and women. At the very least, it would improve the perception of safety and checked the exodus of women that happens when the clocks strike 6pm. Realistically it will take a generation or more before Indian cities have a majority of residents who respect and treat women as equals. In the meantime, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">we can start by building safer public infrastructure and environments</span>// and improving our law enforcement.

Cases like that are the exact reason why we need citizen-driven transportation discussions – they are a starting point to create a better society
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bartholomew 6</span> (Keith Bartholomew is an associate professor in the University of Utah 's Department of City & Metropolitan Planning “Land use-transportation scenario planning: promise and reality” http://www.springerlink.com/content/r20nt5g521n27854/fulltext.pdf)
Land use-<span style="font-size: 16px;">transportation scenario planning is an important planning tool</span> whose popularity and use is increasing. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Among its strengths, it offers important opportunities for citizens </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">to engage in constructive dialogue</span>// about the future of their communities, <span style="font-size: 16px;">and provides a basis for assertive action</span> to direct the course of that future. As outlined here, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">actual practice of scenario planning has fallen short of realizing the technique’s potential</span>//, <span style="font-size: 16px;">revealing several structural obstacles in the areas of</span> public participation, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">methodology</span>//, and institutional structure. <span style="font-size: 16px;">To more fully realize the promise offered by scenario planning,</span> three things need to occur. First, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">public involvement </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">processes need to be revamped</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> As with many facets of land use and transportation planning, <span style="font-size: 16px;">citizens involved in scenario planning projects are frequently in the position of merely </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">rubber-stamping decisions already made</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> by consultants, planners, and other insiders. Involving </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the public only to review</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and comment </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">on draft interim products puts citizens in a passive role</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">where only strongly articulated positions can influence the trajectory begun behind closed doors.</span> Instead, the public should be incorporated in study processes before a single line has been drawn or a single word written. Citizens then can and should be given a central role in the crafting, development, and assessment of the key components in the study process, including but not limited to the articulation of study goals, the drafting of study scenarios, the selection of a preferred scenario, and the development of implementation tools. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This level of involvement would go a long way toward overcoming many of the planners’ agenda effects</span> noted above. The recent use of open-ended charrettes (e.g., Envision Utah n.d.) and GIS-aided ‘‘just in time’’ scenario analyses (e.g., Sacramento Area Council of Governments and Valley Vision 2004) are steps in the right direction.

We do not capitulate to the state but instead challenge it and question its approach and propose a productive alternative that begins with the public – our demand on the state instead of pure critique is what gives us power – because it allows us to realize that the principles of effective democracy are not beyond our reach—we just have to be willing to reach for it – but when we sit back and merely critique the state without offering positive solutions our movements fail and the state takes control of all aspects of our life
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rothengatter et al 3 </span>(Werner Rothengatter, President of the World Conference on Transport Research, Head of the Institute of Economic Policy Research at the Unit of Transport and Communication at the University of Karlsruhe, was Head of the Transport Division at the German Institute for Economic Research, has been involved in several transportation research projects, Bent Flyvbjerg, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University, Founding Director of the Cambridge University’s BT Centre for Major Programme Management, previously Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, and Nils Bruzelius, B.A., Executive Editor for the Environmental Working Group, was a science editor at the Washington Post, medical reporter for the Boston Globe. Text taken from article titled, “Megaprojects and Risk: An Anatomy of Ambition,” published by the Cambridge University Press in 2003. Text found by Hirsh)
We do not believe risk can be eliminated from risk society. We believe, however, that risk may be acknowledged much more explicitly and managed a great deal better, with more accountability, than is typically the case today. Like Ortwin Renn, Thomas Webler and others, we hold that <span style="font-size: 16px;">risk assessment and management should involve citizens and stakeholders to reflect their experience and expertise, in addition to including the usual suspects, namely government experts, administrators and politicians. </span>We here define stakeholders as key institutional actors, such as NGOs, various levels of government, industrial interests, scientific and technical expertise and the media. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Some of these stakeholder groups will claim to be speaking legitimately on behalf of the public good and some, but not all of them, will be doing so. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Given that</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> such </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">stakeholders do not</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> always adequately </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">represent publics</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, we recognize the need, on both democratic and pragmatic grounds, to properly involve publics in decision making. Such involvement should take place in fatefully designed deliberative process from the beginning and throughout large-scale projects. </span>Like Renn and Webler,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> we believe that one should go as far as possible with the participatory and deliberative approach in including publics and stakeholders and that the result will be decisions about risk that are better informed and more democratic. </span>

Our discussion of transportation policy can serve as a starting point for all issues of social justice
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bell 88</span> The Republican Revival and Racial PoliticsAuthor(s): Derrick Bell and Preeta BansalReviewed work(s):Source: The Yale Law Journal, Vol. 97, No. 8, Symposium: The Republican Civic Tradition(Jul., 1988), pp. 1609-1621
Derrick Albert Bell, Jr. (November 6, 1930 – October 5, 2011)[2] was the first tenured African-American Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and is largely credited as one of the originators of critical race theory. He was a Visiting Professor at New York University School of Law[3] from 1991 until his death.[4] He was also a former Dean of the University of Oregon School of Law.[5]

In so asking, Michelman demonstrates that he, like generations of black Americans, recognizes the defects in our democracy and yet remains motivated to <span style="font-size: 16px;">sift through the ashes of our political and jurisprudential past for remnants of what might have been and</span>, in his view, <span style="font-size: 16px;">what might yet be</span>. This is what the Michelmans and Sunsteins in our midst know, and who can say that their vision is flawed beyond all feasibility? Certainly not the old man of the story, nor those black people who recognize that their survival depends on making real the ideals that are so frequently espoused in this society and so little observed. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Skepticism about the republican ideal would stern less from disbelief than from concern that too often coalitions forged in the name of improved government are wrought through compromises that sacrifice participation by blacks.</span>40 <span style="font-size: 16px;">That is the inescapable and seemingly unchangeable</span> pattern of this country's political and judicial functioning. Having Professors <span style="font-size: 16px;">Michelman and Sunstein</span> join blacks in the quest to make real the ideals and aspirations of American democracy through abiding faith in the judiciary is not a negligible contribution on their part. By gross definition, they both are members of the oppressor class. They <span style="font-size: 16px;">are</span>, however, obviously <span style="font-size: 16px;">aware of the oppression their society imposes</span> by color and class-based fiat. Indeed, the essays are their offering to the struggle, exercises in scholarship that are reflections of their concern and, perhaps, manifestations of their faith. Inadequate? Probably, given the logic-defying barriers of power-based precedent lurking just behind the dense smokescreen of race. But the oppressed will not triumph over these barriers through faith alone. And those slender reeds that are accepted as "<span style="font-size: 16px;">black progress" cannot emerge without the nurture of some whites who realize that the oppression of blacks does not oppress blacks alone, but</span>, indeed, <span style="font-size: 16px;">that it denies all of humanity the full emancipatory potential of critical, dialogic self-rule</span>. Thus, while the current interest in civic republicanism may be a passing fashion for those with the luxury to revel in the life of the mind, the <span style="font-size: 16px;">skepticism that is a necessary defense for</span> the perpetually <span style="font-size: 16px;">disadvantaged should not blind minorities to the possibility that</span> faith in <span style="font-size: 16px;">the intellectual solution may be as deserving of recognition as faith that our humanity will not always be subordinated because we are not white.</span>

And although this is not the perfect solution it is a game changer that allows for effective solutions
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Winant 97</span> – Howard Winant, Professor of Sociology and Director of the Center for New racial Studies at UC Santa Barbara, September-October 1997, “Behind Blue Eyes: Contemporary White Racial Politics,” online: http://www.soc.ucsb.edu/faculty/winant/whitness.html
So, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">monolithic white supremacy is over</span>//, yet in a more concealed way, white power and privilege live on. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The overt politics of racial subordination has been destroyed</span>, yet it is still very possible to "play the racial card" in the political arena. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Racially-defined minorities are no longer subject to legal segregation, but they have not been relieved of the burdens of discrimination</span>, even by laws supposedly intended to do so. Whites are no longer the official "ruling race," yet they still enjoy many of the privileges descended from the time when they were. In this situation the old recipes for racial equality, which involved creation of a "color-blind" society, have been transformed into formulas for the maintenance of racial inequality. The old programs for eliminating white racial privilege are now suspected of creating nonwhite racial privilege. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The welfare state, once seen as the instrument for overcoming poverty and social injustice</span>, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">is now accused of fomenting </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">these very ills. </span>//Therefore, <span style="font-size: 16px;">not only blacks (and other racially-identified minorities), but also whites, now experience a division in their racialidentities</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">On the one hand, whites inherit the legacy of white supremacy</span>, from which they continue to benefit. <span style="font-size: 16px;">But on the other hand, they are subject to the moral and politicalchallenges posed to that inheritance by the partial but real successes of the black movement</span>(and affiliated movements). //<span style="font-size: 16px;">These movements advanced a countertradition to white supremacy</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, one which envisioned a radicalized, inclusive, participatory democracy</span>, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">a</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> substantively egalitarian economy, and a nonracial state</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">They deeply affected whites as well as blacks</span>, exposing and <span style="font-size: 16px;">denouncing often unconscious beliefs in white supremacy, and demanding new and more respectful forms of behavior in relation to nonwhites</span>. Just as the //<span style="font-size: 16px;">movements partially reformed white supremacist institutions</span>//, <span style="font-size: 16px;">so they partially transformed white racial consciousness</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Obviously, they did not destroy</span>the deep structures of <span style="font-size: 16px;">white privilege, but they did make counterclaims on behalf of the racially excluded and subordinated</span>. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">As a result, white identities have been displaced and refigured</span>//: <span style="font-size: 16px;">they are now contradictory, as well as confused and anxiety ridden</span>, to an unprecedented extent. It is this situation which can be described as white racial dualism.[1]

Thus this debate should be used as a starting point for increasing transportation infrastructure investment through a dialogue about our personal experience with transportation incorporating lost voices through a communicative rationality methodology.

The reason this advocacy succeeds is because it is not state or status quo oriented – it is the opposite – it challenges the system responsible for horrific actions and then attempts to break them down at their most vulnerable levels – it gives a voice to those who are oppressed and focuses on social justice as a first ethical priority
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Willson ‘1</span>(Richard Willson is a professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning, California State Polytechnic University, Transportation 28: 1–31, 2001 – [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The “problem” of transportation planning</span> increasingly <span style="font-size: 16px;">requires a communicative rationality approach</span>. The terrain of transportation planning has shifted from engineering problems (in which behavior following mechanistic and immutable laws) to travel behavior questions beyond the scope of current conditions. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The terrain has shifted from building new highways to managing travel behavior and services. This shift </span>in emphasis //<span style="font-size: 16px;">makes </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">language and discourse more important because they underpin the roots of the behavioral phenomena that are of interest</span>//. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">When transportation planning considers issues</span>// such as ridesharing, car-sharing, telecommuting, or vehicle choice, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the linguistically formed meanings </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">people assign to their actions are powerful policy levers. A shift from instrumental rationality to communicative rationality is the key to addressing these</span>// //<span style="font-size: 16px;">new issues. Conventional transportation planning is not sufficiently creative to address current problems. Instrumental rationality tends to be a reductive process that narrows possibilities</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> rather than expanding them</span>. When there are unreconciled problem frames in the background there is little learning, redefinition of problem frames, or opportunity to discover new approaches. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Although technological innovations and research eventually find their way into trans-portation planning, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">there is sameness in the way of understanding the problem and the type of solutions that are considered</span>//. When, for example, is the last time a regional transportation plan developed a truly new idea? //<span style="font-size: 16px;">There is </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">real urgency to finding new solutions to transportation problems, yet transportation plans rarely produce them</span>//. Many regional transportation plans include projects and behavioral assumptions that are unlikely to be realized. They may produce the necessary conformity findings, but many are deficient in terms of helping their regions develop innovative policies and make tough choices. When this occurs, transportation planning starts to move out of the hands of public agencies, as private innovations produce “work-arounds” such as telecommunication replacement of travel, and employers and residents vote with their feet by leaving regions that cannot manage their growth and transportation systems. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Communicative distortions impede effective transportation planning.</span>// //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Communicative distortions create serious problems for the transportation planning process. The ideal of instrumental rationality breaks down when the participants in planning refuse to follow its structure. Decision</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">-</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">makers resist processes that separate means from ends, the public resists restricted problem frames</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, and planners often play limited technical roles</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Modelers lack credibility if their conceptual framework does not include the dynamics of public perception and decision-making. Communicative rationality may help transportation planners understand and resolve the dichotomous way that they often think about the rational and political dimensions of their work.</span>//

Our advocacy is a good starting point for discussing the intersection of race and politics—completely abandoning structures is a flawed method because those structures already always influence bodies
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Delgado 87 </span>Delgado-prof law UC Davis-87
22 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 301 (1987)
Ethereal Scholar: Does Critical Legal Studies Have What Minorities Want, The;
http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/hcrcl22&div=20&g_sent=1&collection=journals
The CLS critique of legal rules and reasoning is well known. Rules, since they are indeterminate and manipulable, can generate practically any result in a given situation.' 4 Rules invite the savvy to operate near their borders while the uninitiated remain well inside.15 Rights, a special kind of rule, receive particularly harsh criticism from Critical Legal Scholars (Crits).16 Rights legitimize society's unfair power arrangements, acting like pressure valves to allow only so much injustice.17 With much fanfare, the powerful periodically distribute rights as proof that the system is fair and just, and then quietly deny rights through narrow construction, nonenforcement, or delay.'8 Rights, Crits argue, are never promulgated in genuinely important areas such as economic justice. '9 They protect only ephemeral things, like the right to speak or worship. 20 When even these rights become threatening, they are limited.2' For CLS, rights reinforce a soulless, alienating vision of society made up of atomized individuals whose only concern is to protect their own security and property.22 Crits argue that rights are alienating since they force one to look at oneself and others as isolated rights-bearers ("I got my rights") rather than as interdependent members of a community, and make it impossible for us even to imagine what a nonhierarchical society founded on cooperation and love would be like. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The CLS critique of rights and rules is the most problematic aspect</span> of the CLS program, <span style="font-size: 16px;">and provides few answers for minority scholars </span>and lawyers. 23 <span style="font-size: 16px;">We know, from frequent and sad experience, that the mere announcement of a legal right means little. We live in the gap between law on the books and law in action</span>. We have no difficulty imagining a better world; for us, eliminating racism would be a good start. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Even if rights and rights-talk paralyze us and induce a false sense of security</span>, as CLS scholars maintain, <span style="font-size: 16px;">might they not have a </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">comparable effect on public officials, such as the police</span>//?<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rights do, at times, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">give pause to those who would otherwise oppress us</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">;</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">without the law's sanction, these individuals would be more likely to express racist sentiments on the job</span>.24 <span style="font-size: 16px;">It is condescending and misguided to assume that the enervating effect of rights talk is experienced by the victims and not the perpetrators of racial mistreatment.</span> Second, <span style="font-size: 16px;">CLS scholars are often hazy about what would provide minorities </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">comparable </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">protection if rights no longer existed</span>//.25 The CLS positive program, or Utopia, discussed below, 26, is both far from adequate and far off in time. Third, Crits argue that rights separate and alienate the individual from the rest of the human community.27 This may be so for the hard-working Crits who spend much of their lives in their studies and law offices. 28 <span style="font-size: 16px;">For minorities</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 16px;">rights serve as a rallying point and bring us closer together</span>.29 On the other hand, <span style="font-size: 16px;">any distance rights place between us and others may be beneficial</span>; <span style="font-size: 16px;">there is at least safety in distance</span>. 30 One explanation for the CLS position on rights may be that <span style="font-size: 16px;">the average</span> Crit, a <span style="font-size: 16px;">white male teaching at a major law school</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">has little use for rights</span>.31 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Those with whom he comes in contact in his daily life-landlords, employers, public authorities-generally treat him with respect and deference</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Rarely is he the victim of coercion, revilement, or contempt</span>. 32 In the mind of the average Crit, rights offer relatively little security, while they promote a shrunken, atrophied, and unsatisfying social existence. 33 Rights transform those governed by them into lone, deformed stick figures vulnerable to pressures emanating from large corporations or faceless bureaucracies. 34 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Yet, when Crits are treated insensitively or unfairly, or are coerced into giving up something of value-such as an academic appointment in a tenure battle tinged by anti-Crit bias-they have been as quick as anyone to resort to the language of rights</span>. 35 Their behavior in such situations exemplifies the universal tendency of beleaguered persons and groups to revert to rights-talk. <span style="font-size: 16px;">For minorities</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">however, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">that rights minimize many forms of coercion is of enormous importance</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>// At the same time, the psychic rewards that Crits believe will result from a rightless interracial "community" are far from our experience. Even if such rewards were achievable, they would necessarily rank lower than simple security on our scale of need. Of course, a utopian community of the sort Crits advocate might provide minorities with both security and psychic satisfaction. As will be shown later, however, that hope is probably ,vain.3 6 In short, the two groups see rights differently. White CLS members see rights as oppressive, alienating and mystifying. For minorities, they are invigorating cloaks of safety that unite us in a common bond. Instead of coming to grips with the different function of rights for the two groups, Crits insist that minorities adopt their viewpoint, labeling disagreement on our part false consciousness 37 or a lack of political sophistication. 2. The CLS Critique of Piecemeal Reform Critical scholars reject the idea of piecemeal reform. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Incremental change</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">they argue, merely postpones the wholesale reformation that must occur to create a decent society.</span>38 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Even worse, an unfair social system survives by using piecemeal reform to disguise and legitimize oppression.</span> 39 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Those who control the system weaken resistance by pointing to the occasional concession to, or periodic court victory of, a black plaintiff or worker as evidence that the system is fair and just.</span>40 In fact, Crits believe that teaching the common law or using the case method in law school is a disguised means of preaching incrementalism and thereby maintaining the current power structure. 41 To avoid this, CLS scholars urge law professors to abandon the case method, give up the effort to find rationality and order in the case law, and teach in an unabashedly political fashion. 42 <span style="font-size: 16px;">The CLS critique of piecemeal reform is familiar, imperialistic and wrong</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Minorities know from bitter experience that occasional court victories do not mean the Promised Land is at hand</span>. 43 <span style="font-size: 16px;">The critique is imperialistic in that it tells minorities and other oppressed peoples how they should interpret events affecting them</span>.44 <span style="font-size: 16px;">A court order directing a housing authority to disburse funds for heating in subsidized housing may postpone the revolution, or it may not. In the meantime, the order keeps a number of poor families warm</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This may mean more to them than it does to a comfortable academic working in a warm office. It </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">smacks of paternalism</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to assert that the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">possibility of revolution later outweighs the certainty of heat now</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, unless there is evidence for that possibility</span>. The Crits do not offer such evidence. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Indeed, some incremental changes may bring revolutionary changes closer, not push them further away. Not all small reforms induce complacency; some may whet the appetite for further combat</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The welfare family may hold a tenants' union meeting in their heated living room</span>. CLS scholars' critique of piecemeal reform often misses these possibilities, and neglects the question of whether total change, when it comes, will be what we want. 3. CLS' Idealism The CLS program is also idealistic. 45 CLS scholars' idealism transforms social reality into a mental construct. 46 Facts become intelligible only through the categories of thought that we bring to experience. Crits argue that the principal impediments to achieving an ideal society are intellectual. People are imprisoned by a destructive system of mental categories that blocks any vision of a better world. 47 Liberal-capitalist ideology so shackles individuals that they willingly accept a truncated existence and believe it to be the best available. Changing the world requires primarily that we begin to think about it differently. 48 To help break the mental chains and clear the way for the creation of a new and better world, Crits practice "trashing"a process by which law and social structures are shown to be contingent, inconsistent and irrationally supportive of the status quo without good reason.4 9 CLS scholars' idealism has a familiar ring to minority ears. We cannot help but be reminded of those fundamentalist preachers who have assured us that our lot will only improve once we "see the light" and are "saved." Are our chains really mental? They may be so for members of privileged groups. They are much less so for minorities. Imagine that the Crits' trashing program succeeded and that all laws were repealed. Would our lot improve? That proposition is open to serious doubt. The forces that hold us back are not largely mental, legal, nor even political. What holds us back is, simply, racism-the myriad of insults, threats, indifference, and other "microaggressions" to which we are continually exposed. 0 Because the Crits are intellectuals, they assign a large role to reason and ideology. Yet reason and ideology do not explain all evil. Telling an individual that he or she harbors racism will not make it go away; telling a black person that a rebuff was racially motivated will not ease its sting. Racism will not go away simply because Crits show that legalisms are indeterminate, that rights are alienating and legitimizing, and that law is a reflection of the interests of the ruling class. Whatever utility these concepts may have in other settings and in attempting to explain the angst of CLS members, 5' they have limited application in helping to understand, much less cure, racism. 4. The CLS Concept of False Consciousness The concept of false consciousness is the final aspect of Crit scholarship that minorities find problematic. 2 Workers and minorities buy into a system that degrades and oppresses them, and vehemently defend that system with a kind of "false honor. ' 53 These groups accept their own subordination because they believe that the constitutional system protects their property against takings by the state, and that it elevates their status above that of the lowest class.54 Thus, oppressed people not only accept the liberal ideology and the mental shackles described in the preceding section, but also embrace it loyally and reject the proffered assistance of revolutionaries. Some CLS writers even argue that the Framers intended false consciousness to exist. While extolling the virtues of freedom, the Framers set out to achieve ideological hegemony for themselves and their class by providing for separate classes and by protecting the property and prerogatives of employers and slave owners. 55 False consciousness rationalizes the lowly status of workers, women, minorities and other oppressed groups.56 According to capitalist-liberal ideology, society consists of individuals who express political preferences through voting and achieve economic results through the marketplace. 7 The system is formally fair; therefore, if one is poor, reviled, hungry, or out of work, it is one's own fault.58 At the same time, the person who occupies a position of power deserves it. In a meritocratic society, the cream rises to the top. The duty of everyone else is to obey. Ideologically achieved domination becomes a self-generating spiral. The masses are persuaded that they are of little merit. Demoralized, they take little interest in elections or in the way political and economic life is run.59 Thus, false consciousness blinds them to the alienation, lack of justice, conflict and unfairness inherent in political life. Civil rights law is subject to particularly scathing criticism. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Crits argue that the purpose of civil rights is to reconcile minorities to subordination by convincing us that the system is fair</span>; our lowly status is simply the result of our inferiority. 60 The legal system protects society's investment in the subordination of minorities by assuring everyone that the status quo is inevitable. 61 It accomplishes this by doling out the occasional victory, such as Brown v. Board of Education,62 and by ensuring that most civil rights are formal, rather than substantive. 63 As with the other elements of the negative program, one should begin by asking whether the concept of false consciousness holds true for minorities. Much of what Crits criticize as false consciousness evinces their distrust of liberal legalisms and the elusive promises of court victories. Most of us have already acquired this distrust; society has provided us with more than adequate tutelage. 64 We know from Derrick Bel65 and from personal experience not to place too much reliance on liberal attorneys who say they know exactly what we want. We know, indeed we live, the bogus public-private distinction. 6 Moreover, it is worth questioning the extent to which our current subordination is caused by uncritical absorption of self defeating ideologies, as opposed to other forces. Much more of our current plight is due to other factors: coercion by the dominant group; exclusion from clubs, networks, information, and needed help at crucial times; microaggressions; and the paralysis and hopelessness caused by the majority culture's denial of our pain and reality. (Who among us has not been asked by a white person, naively or almost incredulously, "Do you really, in this day and age, suffer on account of your race?" 67) Ultimately, the CLS false-consciousness analysis raises more questions than it answers. If false consciousness exists and is so powerful, why are only minorities and workers afflicted by it, and not white radicals? Is there not something patronizing in diagnosing an intellectual disease that exclusively afflicts persons of color?6 Is not "false consciousness" an expression, like "incompetent" or "insane," that gives others the authority to treat the victim as if he lacks humanity, autonomy, or will? 69 Is not false consciousness an excuse for white radicals to assert and retain power they would otherwise have to explain and justify? Does not the CLS program create its own false consciousness within the law schools which employ CLS radicals, and ultimately within society at large? Unless coupled with practical action to storm trenches and organize workers, something CLS members have been remarkably slow to do, 70 the CLS reform program allows society to validate myths about free speech and the right to dissent. 71 B. The CLS Positive Program Critical Legal Studies, to date, has devoted much less effort to developing a positive program than to criticizing rules and social structures. 72 <span style="font-size: 16px;">In general, the Crits' positive aim is to establish a </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Utopia in which true community would prevail</span>//. 73 <span style="font-size: 16px;">Decisionmaking would be decentralized; rules would be set by small groups such as factory workers, farm workers, and students</span>, 74 <span style="font-size: 16px;">and would remain subject to constant renegotiation</span>. 75 Hierarchy would not exist; everyone would be equal.76 There would be no need for rights-at least not so many as we recognize today. Instead, everyone would share work, goods and responsibilities. 77 Individuals would benefit from the de-emphasis on individualism in Utopia. In contemporary society, the individual lacks depth and character because of his isolation and lack of commitment to others.7 He may be free in a formal sense, but he is also stunted and barely human. In a non-hierarchical, nonrepressive society, on the other hand, the human personality would flourish. 79 <span style="font-size: 16px;">The Crits' positive program would poorly serve the needs of minorities. </span>Some radical theoreticians may indeed be lonely. Most minority lawyers and law professors are not: we have each other. We meet, share experiences, recount horror stories, laugh and cry together. Victimization brings us together, building in us a community. It is much more problematic to accept the invitation, if it is that, to join Crits and other whites in mixed race communities lacking in structure or rules. Two immediate difficulties confront any serious discussion of incorporating minorities into the utopian communities envisioned by the Crits. First, one must be a self who is fully recognized as a member of a community of selves before one can merge into such a community, and certainly before the lines between self and others can safely begin to blur. How can this happen unless society first recognizes us as coequal members, something it has yet to do?80 Second, there are no guarantees that racism would not resurface in the CLS communities. To date, Crits have not articulated a psychological or political theory of the origin of racism or of how it could be eradicated. I<span style="font-size: 16px;">f racism were to surface in a CLS-style Utopia, there would be no rules, rights, federal statutes, or even courts to counteract it. </span>Even if there were tribunals or people's commissions of some kind, would they be guided by strict scrutiny1 in examining cases of prejudice? Probably not, since the once-oppressed and politically powerless groups would presumably have been empowered by the egalitarian Utopia. Perhaps these difficulties could be overcome. In the meantime, however, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the costs of moving to a utopian society would be borne by minorities, since the dismantling of formal structures would initially lead to an increase in racist behavior</span> s2 Ostensibly, the CLS choice of structure for the post-revolutionary community is neutral and based on those arrangements with the greatest potential for humanity. However, that choice 'is not value-free. Utopian society would empower whites, giving them satisfaction currently denied,83 and disempower minorities, making life even less secure than it is today. As a black leader is supposed to have said, "Community don't look like me." II. Informality-The Source of the Trouble Much of the misfit between the CLS program and the aspirations of minorities is due to the informality of the CLS program.84 CLS themes and approaches criticize formal struc-tures such as rights, rules and bureaucracies, while opting for consciously informal processes that rely on good will, intersubjective understanding and community. The CLS positive and negative programs exemplify this informality; they illustrate the Crits' preference for holistic approaches that sweep everything at once into their scope.85 Whatever sense //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">informal, small-scale politics</span>// may make for the CLS membership, it <span style="font-size: 16px;">is bad news for minorities</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Discretionary judgments colored by racism or other forms of prejudice are made possible by replacing rules, guidelines and rights with fluid, informal decisionmaking</span>. In fact, <span style="font-size: 16px;">structureless processes affirmatively increase the likelihood of prejudice</span>. CLS theorists have avoided confronting these risks, since CLS lacks a political and psychological theory of racism. CLS theory simply assumes that racism is just another form of class-based oppression, a product of a hierarchal social structure.8 6 The Crits' focus on informality also ignores the influence that rules have on an individual's character and action. A society that enacts rules and provides structures to curb racism announces that racism is unacceptable behavior. By committing ourselves to norms of fairness we become fairer people. By changing the structure, we change the setting in which we act and ultimately change ourselves. <span style="font-size: 16px;">If we jettison rules and structures, we risk losing the gains we have made in combatting racism. </span>The psychological-political analysis that follows explains and illustrates the interaction among rules, conduct and character. I outline the principal social scientific theories of racism and then develop a consensus position which explains the circumstances in which most people are likely to behave in a discriminatory fashion. I apply this view to the highly informal Crit program to demonstrate that the CLS program exposes minorities to an increased risk of prejudicial treatment. A. Theories of Race and Racism Most Americans harbor some degree of racial prejudice. 7 Indeed, individuals rarely come to grips with their racist impulses and bring them completely under control.88 Most deal with them through a variety of mechanisms: displacement, denial, rationalization, overcompensation and compromise.8 9 Social scientists have developed a number of overlapping theories to explain the origin of prejudice based on race, ethnicity, sex, or other immutable characteristics." The principal approaches are: psychoanalytic theories, which explain prejudice in terms of unconscious forces and deep-seated syndromes, such as the authoritarian personality;9' socioeconomic theories, which explain prejudice through historical trends, social group clashes and scapegoating; 92 and social-psychological theories, which explain racism by means of social conditioning and ingroup/ out-group categories. 93 It is likely that each of these theories partly explains the multifaceted aspects of racist behavior. On the other hand, racism runs counter to the body of public principles that form our national ethos, including fairness, egalitarianism and humanitarianism. 94 The conflict between racist impulses and the American creed causes many people to act inconsistently-fairly and humanely on one occasion, thoughtlessly or with prejudice on another.95 Racism and racial egalitarianism are thus maintained in equipoise. Americans are influenced by both public and private norms with respect to race. 96 The highly principled public norm exhorts us to treat others in an unprejudiced, evenhanded fashion. 97 The private norms, the standards that guide us during moments of intimacy or familiarity, are much less noble. 98 In private settings, prejudicial behavior and speech are much more likely to appear. The same individual may thus act quite differently on different occasions, depending on whether he sees himself as governed by public or private values. The "situational specificity" 99 of the racist impulse supplies the best means for its control. Most people suppress their prejudices when environmental features remind them that racism will not be tolerated and that the American creed demands a high standard of conduct. Although there are other theories and approaches to racism, 100 the "confrontation" approach-where prejudice is publicly confronted and discouraged through formal structures-is the most widely accepted means of controlling prejudice in the legal and political literature. 1 1 The theory is supported by empirical studies of legal decisionmaking, including reviews of alternative dispute resolution and comparisons between the adversarial and inquisitorial modes of presenting evidence. 102 Little of this will surprise minority readers. We know by a kind of instinct that there are times when our white friends can be trusted and times when they cannot. We know that there are occasions-when the flag is flying, the bands are playing, and public values are foremost in everyone's minds-when we are comparatively safe, and that there are other occasions when we must be careful. The bottom line is that <span style="font-size: 16px;">formal public settings are relatively safe for minorities, while informal private settings present risks. To minimize racism, one should structure settings so that public norms are enforced, and prejudice openly confronted and discouraged</span>. Society should avoid creating intimate, unguided settings where highly charged interracial encounters can take place. It remains to be considered what the confrontation theory, and the formality/informality axis generated by that theory, implies for the CLS program. B. Applying the Theory of Race to the CLS Program The confrontation theory helps to explain why the openended features of the CLS program worry minority scholars. For example, the CLS positive program, which calls for small communities that function without written agendas, statutes, rules or rights, 13 would allow for discretionary judgments based on racial prejudice, and contain few of the structural features that confront and check racism. The lack of confrontation mech-anisms would likely ensure the invasion of racism into the community. CLS scholars' rejection of incrementalism also illustrates the dangers of informality. By insisting that everything must change at once, CLS rejects the slow, painstaking process of establishing and refining precedent, replacing that relatively formal process with a mercurial vision of social change with no clear direction and undefined ends. Similar considerations hold true, although not quite so strongly, for CLS scholars' idealism and their use of the concept of false consciousness. The Crits' emphasis on mental constructs reveals their preference for free-form change over the concrete reform accomplished by litigation, labor activism and community organizing. CLS prefers the broad reach of thought to the measured progression that occurs through new jobs, better housing, court victories and school desegregation. C. The Laboratory of Daily Life: Applying the Theory of Race to the CLS Organization and Its Mode of Operation Theories, according to pragmatic philosophy, must be tested by their consequences, and by the ways in which they modify the behavior of their adherents.'04 Thus, one should examine the organizational and personal behavior of the members of the Critical Legal Studies Conference on matters of race in order to determine the possible impact of their theories on minorities, particularly since many members of the Conference believe in the inseparability of politics and daily life. 105 If the Conference's reform program holds promise for minorities, one should find a heightened racial sensitivity among the organization and its members. An examination of the Conference on racial matters does not yield a clear-cut answer to the question. The organization, as is predictable from its theories and program, is highly informal. There are no bylaws, elections, procedures, officers, membership cards or committees. 106 Annual meetings and summer workshops are organized by ad hoc groups who decide that they have something to say. The informality of the structure allows the "white male heavies," most of whom are at Harvard, to wield a disproportionate amount of power. 107 Few women or minorities wield significant influence. 0 8 The record of individual members of the Conference is better than that of the organization itself. At least three of its well-known members wrote powerful and influential articles supporting minority causes. 09 Many Crits welcome minority colleagues on their faculties, and support affirmative action in law school admissions and appointments." 0 Yet few Crits took an active role in the aftermath of an incident in which the competence of a leading black scholar was challenged by students and colleagues."' In addition, there have been sporadic reports of racist language and stereotyping in Crits' scholarship, 1 2 and of rude treatment of minority panelists by Crits." 3 One would conclude that the Conference's record on racial justice matters is good, but not outstanding-perhaps 3.4 on a 4.0 point scale. If racism manifests itself among CLS members, it is frightening to imagine what would occur in a similarly unstructured group with a less progressively-minded membership. III. Beyond CLS-Toward a Radical Minority Social-Legal Agenda <span style="font-size: 16px;">It is axiomatic that any social reform program that minorities would find appealing would be based on the express need for understanding and coping with racism.</span> It is not enough to subsume racism under some other category, such as class struggle, that fails to understand racism's subtlety and complexity. The program should incorporate some variant of the confrontation approach to containing racism. 1 4 The new society, and its transitional predecessor, would create structures for detecting and punishing racism and for reminding community members that such conduct will not be tolerated. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Because of these structures, such a society would be relatively formal.Any society consciously designed to promote minority wellbeing must initially include a </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">strong central authority</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">founded on a healthy skepticism both of human nature and of the possibilities of change through appeals to idealism</span>. Tempering romanticism with watchfulness, it would instead effect change through appeals to citizens' self-interest by arguing that power and resource realignments benefit everyone. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The need for centralized authority stems from the necessity for counter-coercive measures on behalf of minorities</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">One cannot rely on local authority to redistribute power and physical resources because it is too close to the community and unlikely to upset the status quo. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The further authority is from the community, the better</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Our principal worry is not the abuse of corporate or bureaucratic power</span> (CLS' foe), <span style="font-size: 16px;">but rather the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">simple </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">next-door</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, one-on-one microaggressions </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">by whites."</span>// 6 <span style="font-size: 16px;">It is a sad truth that, even today, many minorities find success and relative relief from racism only in highly structured, rule-bound environments</span> such as the Army." 7 Group membership may force Crits and other majority-group members to reflect on politics and the nature of the common good, but unless such reflection is accompanied by formal barriers against racism, it is meaningless.







=Round 6= 

===1NC=== 

Framework


==1NC - Long== 
===The affirmative must defend a topical affirmative defined by the resolution – “Resolved” is a governmental action that is a resolution focus – the affirmative must say yes to the resolution and the negative must say no=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Parcher 1</span>—Jeff Parcher, Former Debate Coach at Georgetown University [Feburary 2001, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200102/0790.html]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(1) Pardon me if I turn to a source besides Bill. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">American Heritage Dictionary: Resolve</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: 1. T</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">o make a firm decision about</span>. 2. <span style="font-size: 16px;">To decide or express by formal vote</span>. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">3. To separate something into constiutent parts See Syns at *analyze* (emphasis in orginal) 4. Find a solution to. See Syns at *Solve* (emphasis in original) 5. To dispel: resolve a doubt. - n 1. Frimness of purpose; resolution. 2.</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">A determination or decision</span>. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(2)</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">The very nature of the word "resolution" makes it a question. American Heritage: A course of action determined or decided on. A formal statemnt of a deciion, as by a legislature</span>. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(3)</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">The resolution is obviously a question. Any other conclusion is utterly inconcievable</span>. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Why? Context.</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">The debate community empowers a topic committee to write a topic for ALTERNATE side debating</span>. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The committee is not a random group of people coming together to "reserve" themselves about some issue. There is context - they are empowered by a community to do something. In their deliberations, the topic community attempts to craft a resolution which can be ANSWERED in either direction. They focus on issues like ground and fairness because they know the resolution will serve as the basis for debate which will be resolved by determining the policy desireablility of that resolution. That's not only what they do, but it's what we REQUIRE them to do. We don't just send the topic committee somewhere to adopt their own group resolution. It's not the end point of a resolution adopted by a body - it's the prelimanary wording of a resolution sent to others to be answered or decided upon. (4)</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">Further context: the word resolved is used to emphasis the fact that it's policy debate. Resolved comes from the adoption of resolutions by legislative bodies. A resolution is either adopted or it is not. It's a question before a legislative body. Should this statement be adopted or not. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(5)</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">The very terms 'affirmative' and 'negative' support my view. One affirms a resolution. Affirmative and negative are the equivalents of 'yes' or 'no' - which, of course, are answers to a question</span>.
===“United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ericson, 03</span> (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy: Urging Future Action In policy propositions, each topic contains certain key elements, although they have slightly different functions from comparable elements of value-oriented propositions. 1. An agent doing the acting ---“The United States” in “<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States should</span>adopt a policy of free trade.” Like the object of evaluation in a proposition of value, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the agent is the subject of the sentence</span>. 2. The verb <span style="font-size: 16px;">should</span>—the first part of a verb phrase that <span style="font-size: 16px;">urges action</span>. 3. An action verb to follow should in the should-verb combination. For example, should adopt here means to put <span style="font-size: 16px;">a</span> program or <span style="font-size: 16px;">policy</span>into <span style="font-size: 16px;">action though governmental means</span>. 4. A specification of directions or a limitation of the action desired. The phrase free trade, for example, gives direction and <span style="font-size: 16px;">limits</span> to <span style="font-size: 16px;">the topic</span>, which would, for example, eliminate consideration of increasing tariffs, discussing diplomatic recognition, or discussing interstate commerce. Propositions of policy deal with future action. Nothing has yet occurred. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The entire debate is about whether something ought to occur</span>. What you agree to do, then, when you accept the affirmative side in such a debate is to offer sufficient and compelling reasons for an audience to perform the future action that you propose.
===The USFG is in Washington=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Encarta 2k</span> (Encarta Online Encyclopedia http://encarta.msn.com ) KENTUCKY
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">“The federal government of the United States is</span>// centered //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in Washington DC</span>//”
===Violation – the affirmative merely affirms a methodological focus that does not affirm the resolution or governmental action=== 
===Prefer our interpretation:=== 
===Limits – modest predictable topic discussion is necessary to provide equitable ground and key to productive decision-making and advocacy skills that affects all assets of life – even if their position is contestable it is not predictable and doesn’t generate valuable debate – our interpretation allows for creativity but targets the discussion to avoid mere statements of fact – even if we could have something to say against their affirmative the question is if it is most valuable=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Steinberg & Freeley 8</span> *Austin J. Freeley is a Boston based attorney who focuses on criminal, personal injury and civil rights law, AND **David L. Steinberg , Lecturer of Communication Studies @ U Miami, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Argumentation and Debate: Critical Thinking for Reasoned Decision Making</span> pp45-
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Debate is a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">means of settling differences</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">,so there </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">must be a</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> difference of opinion or a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">conflict of interest</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> before there can be a debate. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">If everyone is in agreement</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on a tact or value or policy, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">there is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">no need for debate</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the matter can be settled by unanimous consent</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Thus, for example, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">it would be pointless to attempt to debate "Resolved: That two plus two equals four,"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> because there is simply no controversy about this statement. (</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Controversy is an essential prerequisite</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of debate. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Where there is no clash of ideas</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, proposals, interests, or expressed positions on issues, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">there is no debate</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In addition, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">debate </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">cannot produce effective decisions</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">without </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">clear identification of a question</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> or questions to be answered</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For example, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">general argument may occur about the broad topic of</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> illegal immigration</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">How many</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> illegal immigrants </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">are in the United States?</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> What is the impact of illegal immigration and immigrants on our economy? What is their impact on our communities? Do they commit crimes? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Do they take job</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s from American workers? Do they pay taxes? Do they require social services? Is it a problem that some do not speak English? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Is it the responsibility of employers to discourage illegal immigration</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by not hiring undocumented workers? Should they have the opportunity- to gain citizenship? Docs illegal immigration pose a security threat to our country? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Do illegal immigrants do work that American workers are unwilling to do?</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Are their rights as workers and as human beings at risk due to their status? Are they abused by employers, law enforcement, housing, and businesses? I low are their families impacted by their status? What is the moral and philosophical obligation of a nation state to maintain its borders? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Should we build a wall on the Mexican border</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, establish a national identification can!, or enforce existing laws against employers? Should we invite immigrants to become U.S. citizens? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Surely you can think of many more concerns to be addressed by a conversation about the topic area of illegal immigration. Participation in this "debate" is likely to be emotional and intense. However, it is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">not likely to be productive</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> or useful without focus on a particular question</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and identification of a line </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">demarcating sides</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> in the controversy</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. To be discussed and resolved effectively, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">controversies must be stated clearly</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vague understanding</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">results in </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">unfocused deliberation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">poor decisions</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, frustration, and emotional distress, as </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">evidenced by the failure of</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the United States Congress to make progress on the immigration debate during the summer of 2007</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Someone disturbed by the problem of the growing underclass of poorly educated, socially disenfranchised youths might observe, "Public schools are doing a terrible job!</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> They are overcrowded, and many teachers are poorly qualified in their subject areas. Even the best teachers can do little more than struggle to maintain order in their classrooms." That same concerned citizen, facing a complex range of issues, might arrive at an unhelpful decision, such as "We ought to do something about this" or. worse. "It's too complicated a problem to deal with." </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Groups of concerned citizens worried about the state of public education could join together to express their frustrations</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, anger, disillusionment, and emotions regarding the schools, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">but without a focus for their discussions</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">they could easily agree about the sorry state of education </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">without finding points of clarity or</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> potential solutions.</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">A gripe session would follow</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">But if a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">precise question</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> is posed</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—such as "What can be done to improve public education?"—</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">then a more </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">profitable area of discussion</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> is opened up</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">simply by placing a focus on the search</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> for a concrete solution step</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">One or more judgments can be phrased in the form of debate propositions, motions for parliamentary debate, or bills for legislative assemblies.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The statements "Resolved: That the federal government should implement a program of charter schools in at-risk communities" and "Resolved: That the state of Florida should adopt a school voucher program" more clearly identify specific ways of dealing with educational problems in a manageable form, suitable for debate. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">They provide specific policies to be investigated and aid discussants in identifying points of difference. To have a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">productive debate, which facilitates effective decision making</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">by</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> directing and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">placing limits on the decision</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to be made, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the basis for argument should be clearly defined</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">If we merely talk about "homelessness" or "abortion" or "crime'* or "global warming" we are likely to have an interesting discussion but not to establish profitable basis for argument</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For example, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the statement "Resolved: That the pen is mightier than the sword" is debatable, yet fails to provide</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> much basis for clear argumentation</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. If we take this statement to mean that the written word is more effective than physical force for some purposes, we can identify a problem area: the comparative effectiveness of writing or physical force for a specific purpose. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Although we now have a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">general subject</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, we have not yet stated a problem. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">It is still too broad</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, too loosely worded to promote well-organized argument. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">What sort of writing are we concerned with</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—poems, novels, government documents, website development, advertising, or what? </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">What does "effectiveness" mean</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in this context? What kind of physical force is being compared—fists, dueling swords, bazookas, nuclear weapons, or what? A more specific question might be. "Would a mutual defense treaty or a visit by our fleet be more effective in assuring Liurania of our support in a certain crisis?" </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The basis for argument could be phrased in a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">debate proposition</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such as "Resolved: That the United States should enter into a mutual defense treatv with Laurania." Negative advocates might oppose this proposition by arguing that fleet maneuvers would be a better solution. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">This is not to say</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that debates should completely avoid creative interpretation</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the controversy by advocates, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">or</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">that good debates cannot occur over competing interpretations of the controversy</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">; in fact, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">these sorts of debates may be very engaging</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. The point is that debate is best facilitated by the guidance provided by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">focus on a particular point of difference</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, which will be outlined in the following discussion.</span>
===AND – Debate’s critical axis is a form of dialogic communication within a confined game space - Unbridled affirmation outside the game space makes research impossible and destroys dialogue in debate=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hanghoj 8</span> http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant professor.
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Debate games</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">are often based on </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">pre-designed</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">scenarios</span> that include descriptions of issues to be debated, educational goals, game goals, roles, rules, time frames etc. In this way, debate <span style="font-size: 16px;">games differ from textbooks</span> and everyday classroom instruction <span style="font-size: 16px;">as </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">debate scenarios</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">allow teachers and students to actively imagine, interact and communicatewithin a domain-specific </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">game space</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> However, instead of mystifying debate games as a “magic circle” (Huizinga, 1950), I will try to overcome the epistemological dichotomy between “gaming” and “teaching” that tends to dominate discussions of educational games. In short, <span style="font-size: 16px;">educational gaming is a form of teaching</span>. As mentioned, education and games represent two different semiotic domains that both embody the three faces of knowledge: assertions, modes of representation and social forms of organisation (Gee, 2003; Barth, 2002; cf. chapter 2). In order to understand the interplay between these different domains and their interrelated knowledge forms, I will draw attention to a central assumption in Bakhtin’s dialogical philosophy. According to Bakhtin, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">all forms of communication and culture are subject to</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">centripetal and centrifugal forces</span>// (Bakhtin, 1981). <span style="font-size: 16px;">A centripetal force is the drive to impose one version of the truth, while a centrifugal force involves a range of possible truths and interpretations.</span> This means that any form of expression involves a duality of centripetal and centrifugal forces: “Every concrete utterance of a speaking subject serves as a point where centrifugal as well as centripetal forces are brought to bear” (Bakhtin, 1981: 272). If we take teaching as an example, it is always affected by centripetal and centrifugal forces in the on-going negotiation of “truths” between teachers and students. In the words of Bakhtin: “Truth is not born nor is it to be found inside the head of an individual person, it is born between people collectively searching for truth, in the process of their dialogic interaction” (Bakhtin, 1984a: 110). Similarly, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the dialogical space of debate games also embodiescentrifugal and centripetal forces. Thus, the election scenario of The Power Game involves centripetal elements that are mainly determined by the rules and outcomes of the game</span>, i.e. the election is based on a limited time frame and a fixed voting procedure. Similarly, the //<span style="font-size: 16px;">open-ended</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">goals, roles and resources represent </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">centrifugal </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">elements and create </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">virtually endless possibilities</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">for </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">research</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">ing</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span> preparing, presenting, debating and evaluating a variety of key political issues. Consequently, the actual process of enacting a game scenario involves a complex negotiation between these centrifugal/centripetal forces that are inextricably linked with the teachers and students’ game activities. In this way, the enactment of The Power Game is a form of teaching that combines different pedagogical practices (i.e. group work, web quests, student presentations) and learning resources (i.e. websites, handouts, spoken language) within the interpretive frame of the election scenario. Obviously, tensions may arise if there is too much divergence between educational goals and game goals. This means that <span style="font-size: 16px;">game facilitation requires a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">balance</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> between focusing </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">too narrowly</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">on the rules</span> or “facts” of a game (centripetal orientation) //<span style="font-size: 16px;">and</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a focusing too broadly on the contingent possibilities and interpretations of the game scenario (centrifugal orientation</span>//). For Bakhtin, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the duality</span> of centripetal/centrifugal forces <span style="font-size: 16px;">often manifests itself as a dynamic between “monological” and “dialogical” forms of discourse</span>. Bakhtin illustrates this point //<span style="font-size: 16px;">with</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the monological discourse of the Socrates/Plato dialogues</span>// in which //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the teacher never learns</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> anything new from the students</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, despite Socrates’ ideological claims to the contrary </span>(Bakhtin, 1984a). Thus, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">discourse becomes monologised when “someone who </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">knows and</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">possesses the truth instructs someone who is ignorant</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">of it </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and in error”, where “a thought is either affirmed or repudiated” by the authority of the teacher</span>// (Bakhtin, 1984a: 81). In contrast to this, dialogical pedagogy fosters inclusive learning environments that are able to expand upon students’ existing knowledge and collaborative construction of “truths” (Dysthe, 1996). At this point, I should clarify that Bakhtin’s term “<span style="font-size: 16px;">dialogic” is both</span> a <span style="font-size: 16px;">descriptive</span> term (<span style="font-size: 16px;">all utterances are per definition dialogic </span>as they address other utterances as parts of a chain of communication) //<span style="font-size: 16px;">and a normative term as dialogue is an ideal to be worked for against the forces of “monologism”</span>// (Lillis, 2003: 197-8). In this project, I am mainly interested in describing the dialogical space of debate games. At the same time, I agree with Wegerif that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">“one of the goals of education, perhaps the most important goal, should be dialogue as an end in itself</span>//” (Wegerif, 2006: 61).
===AND – the impact is two fold – first fairness – a point of stasis is necessary to fairness and reciprocity – otherwise the debate is meaningless non-sense we have nothing to say=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shively ‘2K </span>(Ruth Lessl, Assistant Prof Political Science – Texas A&M U., Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)
The requirements given thus far are primarily negative. The <span style="font-size: 16px;">ambiguists</span> must say "no" to-they <span style="font-size: 16px;">must reject and limit-some ideas</span> and actions. In what follows, we will also find that they must say "yes" to some things. In particular, they must say "yes" to the idea of rational persuasion. This means, first, that they must recognize the role of agreement in political contest, or the basic accord that is necessary to discord. The mistake that the ambiguists make here is a common one. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The mistake is in thinking that</span> agreement marks the end of contest-that <span style="font-size: 16px;">consensus kills debate. </span>But this is true only if the agreement is perfect-if there is nothing at all left to question or contest. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In most cases, however</span>, our agreements are highly imperfect. <span style="font-size: 16px;">We agree on</span> some matters but not on others, on <span style="font-size: 16px;">generalities but not on specifics</span>, on principles but not on their applications, and so on. And this kind of limited agreement is the //starting// condition of contest and debate. As John Courtney Murray writes: <span style="font-size: 16px;">We hold certain truths; therefore we can argue about them.</span> It seems to have been one of the corruptions of intelligence by positivism to assume that argument ends when agreement is reached. In a basic sense, the reverse is true. <span style="font-size: 16px;">There can be no argument except on the premise, and within a context, of agreement. </span>(Murray 1960, 10) <span style="font-size: 16px;">In other words, we cannot argue about something if we are not communicating: if we cannot agree on the topic and terms of argument or if we have utterly different ideas about what counts as evidence or good argument. At the very least, we must agree about what it is that is being debated </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">before</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> we can debate it. For instance, one cannot have an argument about euthanasia with someone who thinks euthanasia is a musical group. One cannot successfully stage a sit-in if one's target audience simply thinks everyone is resting or if those doing the sitting have no complaints. Nor can one demonstrate resistance to a policy if no one knows that it is a policy. In other words, contest is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">meaningless</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> if there is a lack of agreement or communication about what is being contested. Resisters</span>, demonstrators,<span style="font-size: 16px;">and</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> debaters</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">must </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">have some shared ideas about the subject and/or the terms of their disagreements.</span> The participants and the target of a sit-in must share an understanding of the complaint at hand. And<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a demonstrator's audience must know what is being resisted.</span> In short,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the contesting of an idea presumes some agreement about what that idea is and how one might go about intelligibly contesting it.</span> In other words, contestation rests on some basic agreement or harmony. But, again, the response to the ambiguist must be that <span style="font-size: 16px;">the practice of questioning and undermining rules</span>, like all other social practices, <span style="font-size: 16px;">needs a certain order. The subversive needs rules to protect subversion. And when we look more closely at the rules protective of subversion, we find that they are roughly the rules of argument</span> discussed above. In fact, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the rules of argument are roughly the rules of democracy or civility: the delineation of boundaries necessary to protect speech and action from violence, manipulation, and other forms of tyranny.</span>
===AND – Fairness through reciprocity is necessary to open the public sphere – this is a perquisite to the aff=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gutmann and Thompson 96</span> (Amy – President of Penn and Former prof @ Princeton, Dennis – Alfred North Whitehead Professor of Political Philosophy at Harvard, //Democracy and Disagreement//, p 1)
Of the challenges that American democracy faces today, none is more formidable than the problem of moral disagreement. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Neither the theory nor the practice of democratic politics has so far found an adequate way to cope with conflicts about fundamental values.</span> We address the challenge of moral disagreement here by developing a conception of democracy that secures a central place for moral discussion in political life. Along with a growing number of other political theorists, we call this conception deliberative democracy. The core idea is simple: <span style="font-size: 16px;">when citizens</span> or their representatives <span style="font-size: 16px;">disagree morally, they should continue to reasontogetherto reach mutually acceptable decisions.</span> But the meaning and implications of the idea are complex. Although the idea has a long history, it is still in search of a theory. We do not claim that this book provides a comprehensive theory of deliberative democracy, but we do hope that it contributes toward its future development by showing the kind of deliberation that is possible and desirable in the face of moral disagreement in democracies. Some scholars have criticized liberal political theory for neglecting moral deliberation. Others have analyzed the philosophical foundations of deliberative democracy, and still others have begun to explore institutional reforms that would promote deliberation. Yet nearly all of themstop at the point where deliberation itself begins. None has systematically examined the substance of deliberation-the theoretical principles that should guide moral argument and their implications for actual moral disagreements about public policy. That is our subject, and it takes us into the everyday forums of democratic politics, where moral argument regularly appears but where theoretical analysis too rarely goes. Deliberative democracy involves reasoning about politics, and nothing has been more controversial in political philosophy than the nature of reason in politics. We do not believe that these controversies have to be settled before deliberative principles can guide the practice of democracy. Since on occasion citizens and their representatives already engage in the kind of reasoning that those principles recommend, deliberative democracy simply asks that they do so more consistently and comprehensively. The best way to prove the value of this kind of reasoning is to show its role in arguments about specific principles and policies, and its contribution to actual political debates. That is also ultimately the best justification for our conception of deliberative democracy itself. But to forestall possible misunderstandings of our conception of deliberative democracy, we offer some preliminary remarks about the scope and method of this book. The aim of the moral reasoning that our <span style="font-size: 16px;">deliberative democracy prescribes</span> falls between impartiality, which requires something like altruism, and prudence, which demands no more than enlightened self-interest. Its first principle is //<span style="font-size: 16px;">reciprocity</span>//, the subject of Chapter 2, but no less essential are the other principles developed in later chapters. <span style="font-size: 16px;">When citizens reason reciprocally, they seek </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">fair</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> terms of social cooperation for their own sake; they try to find </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">mutually acceptable</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> ways of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">resolving</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">moral disagreements</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>The precise content of reciprocity is difficult to determine in theory, but its general countenance is familiar enough in practice. It can be seen in the difference between acting in one's self-interest (say, taking advantage of a legal loophole or a lucky break) and acting fairly (following rules in the spirit that one expects others to adopt). In many of the controversies discussed later in the book, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the possibility of any morally acceptable resolution depends on citizens' reasoning beyond </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">their narrow self-interest</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and consideringwhat can be justified to people who reasonably disagree with them.</span> Even though the quality of deliberation and the conditions under which it is conducted are far from ideal in the controversies we consider, the fact that in each case some citizens and some officials make arguments consistent with reciprocity suggests that a deliberative perspective is not utopian. To clarify what reciprocity might demand under non-ideal conditions, we develop a distinction between deliberative and nondeliberative disagreement. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Citizens who reason reciprocally can </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">recognize</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">position is worthy of moral respect</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> even when they think it morally wrong.</span> They can believe that a moderate pro-life position on abortion, for example, is morally respectable even though they think it morally mistaken. (The abortion example-to which we often return in the book-is meant to be illustrative. For readers who deny that there is any room for deliberative disagreement on abortion, other political controversies can make the same point.) <span style="font-size: 16px;">The presence ofdeliberative disagreementhas important implicationsfor how citizens treat one another and for what policies they should adopt. When a disagreement is not deliberative</span> (for example, about apolicy to legalize discrimination against blacks and women), <span style="font-size: 16px;">citizens </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">do not have any obligations of mutual respect toward their opponents</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In deliberative disagreement</span> (for example, about legalizing abortion), <span style="font-size: 16px;">citizens should try to accommodate the moral convictions of their opponents to the greatest extent possible, without compromisingtheir own moral convictions</span>. We call this kind of accommodation an economy of moral disagreement, and believe that, though neglected in theory and practice, it is essential to a morally robust democratic life. Although both of us have devoted some of our professional life to urging these ideas on public officials and our fellow citizens in forums of practical politics, this book is primarily the product of scholarly rather than political deliberation. Insofar as it reaches beyond the academic community, it is addressed to citizens and officials in their more reflective frame of mind. Given its academic origins, some readers may be inclined to complain that only professors could be so unrealistic as to believe that moral reasoning can help solve political problems. But such a complaint would misrepresent our aims. To begin with, <span style="font-size: 16px;">we do not think that academic discussion</span> (whether in scholarly journals or college classrooms) <span style="font-size: 16px;">is a model for moral deliberation in politics. Academic discussion need not aim at justifying a practical decision, as deliberation must. Partly for this reason, academic discussion is likely to be </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">insensitive</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">contexts</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of ordinary politics: the pressures of power, the problems of inequality, the demands of diversity, the exigencies of persuasion. Some critics of deliberative democracy show a similar </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">insensitivity</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> when theyjudge actual political deliberations by the standards of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">ideal philosophical reflection</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Actual deliberation is inevitably defective, but so is philosophical reflection practiced in politics.</span> The appropriate comparison is between the ideals of democratic deliberation and philosophical reflection, or between the application of each in the nonideal circumstances of politics. We do not assume that politics should be a realm where the logical syllogism rules. Nor do we expect even the more appropriate standard of mutual respect always to prevail in politics. A deliberative perspective sometimes justifies bargaining, negotiation, force, and even violence. It is partly because moral argument has so much unrealized potential in democratic politics that we believe it deserves more attention. Because its place in politics is so precarious, the need to find it a more secure home and to nourish its development is all the more pressing. Yet because it is also already' pert of our common experience, we have reason to hope that it can survive and even prosper if philosophers along with citizens and public officials better appreciate its value in politics. Some readers may still wonder why deliberation should have such a prominent place in democracy. Surely, they may say, citizens should care more about the justice of public policies than the process by which they are adopted, at least so long as the process is basically fair and at least minimally democratic. One of our main aims in this book is to cast doubt on the dichotomy between policies and process that this concern assumes. Having good reason as individuals to believe that a policy is just does not mean that collectively as citizens we have sufficient justification to legislate on the basis of those reasons. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Themoral authority of collective judgments about policy depends in part on the moral quality of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the process by which citizens collectively reach those judgments</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. Deliberation is the most appropriate way for citizens collectively to resolve their moral disagreements not only about policies but also about the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">process</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> by which policies should be adopted. Deliberation is not only a means to an end, but also a means for deciding what means are </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">morally required to pursue our common ends.</span>//
===The second impact is Dialogue – it is the biggest impact and precedes discussions of truth claims because we must have something to debate against before we debate against it – only effective dialogue can allow us to engage in the affirmative=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Morson 4 </span>http://www.flt.uae.ac.ma/elhirech/baktine/0521831059.pdf#page=331 Northwestern Professor, Prof. Morson's work ranges over a variety of areas: literary theory (especially narrative); the history of ideas, both Russian and European; a variety of literary genres (especially satire, utopia, and the novel); and his favorite writers -- Chekhov, Gogol, and, above all, Dostoevsky and Tolstoy. He is especially interested in the relation of literature to philosophy.
A belief in truly <span style="font-size: 16px;">dialogic ideological becoming would lead to schools that were quite different</span>. In such schools, the mind would be populated with a complexity of voices and perspectives it had not known, and the student would learn to think with those voices, to test ideas and experiences against them, and to shape convictions that are innerly persuasive in response. This very //<span style="font-size: 16px;">process would be central</span>//. Students would sense that whatever word they believed to be innerly persuasive was only tentatively so: the process of dialogue continues.<span style="font-size: 16px;">We must keep the conversation going</span>, and formal education only initiates the process. The innerly persuasive discourse would not be final, but would be, like experience itself, ever incomplete and growing. As Bakhtin observes of the innerly persuasive word: Its creativity and productiveness consist precisely in the fact that such a word awakens new and independent words, that it organizes masses of our words from within, and does not remain in an isolated and static condition. It is not so much interpreted by us as it is further, that is, freely, developed, applied to new material, new conditions; it enters into interanimating relationships with new contexts. . . . The semantic structure of an innerly persuasive discourse is not finite, it is open; in each of the new contexts that dialogize it, this discourse is able to reveal ever newer ways to mean. (DI, 345–6) <span style="font-size: 16px;">We not only learn, we also </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">learn to learn</span>//, and we learn to learn <span style="font-size: 16px;">best when we engage in a dialogue</span> with others and ourselves. We appropriate the world of difference, and ourselves develop new potentials. Those potentials allow us to appropriate yet more voices. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Becoming becomes endless becoming. </span>We talk, we listen, and we achieve an open-ended wisdom. Difference becomes an opportunity (see Freedman and Ball, this volume). Our world manifests the spirit that Bakhtin attributed to Dostoevsky: “nothing conclusive has yet taken place in the world, the ultimate word of the world and about the world has not yet been spoken, the world is open and free, everything is in the future and will always be in the future.”3 Such a world becomes our world within, its dialogue lives within us, and <span style="font-size: 16px;">we develop the potentials of our ever-learning selves.</span>Letmedraw some inconclusive conclusions, which may provoke dialogue. Section I of this volume, “Ideologies in Dialogue: Theoretical Considerations” and Bakhtin’s thought in general suggest that <span style="font-size: 16px;">we learn best when we are actually learning to learn.</span> We engage in dialogue with ourselves and others, and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the most important thing </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">is the value of the open-ended</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">process itself.</span>//Section II, “Voiced, Double Voiced, and Multivoiced Discourses in Our Schools” suggests that a belief in truly dialogic ideological becoming would lead to schools that were quite different. In such schools, the mind would be populated with a complexity of voices and perspectives it had not known, and the student would learn to think with those voices, to test ideas and experiences against them, and to shape convictions that are innerly persuasive in response. Teachers would not be trying to get students to hold the right opinions but to sense the world from perspectives they would not have encountered or dismissed out of hand. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Students would develop the habit of getting inside the perspectives of other groups</span> and other people. Literature in particular is especially good at fostering such dialogic habits. Section III, “Heteroglossia in a Changing World” may invite us to learn that dialogue involves really listening to others, hearing them not as our perspective would categorize what they say, but as they themselves would categorize what they say, and only then to bring our own perspective to bear. We talk, we listen, and we achieve an open-ended wisdom. The chapters in this volume seem to suggest that we view <span style="font-size: 16px;">learning as a perpetual </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">process</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>// That was perhaps Bakhtin’s favorite idea: that to appreciate life, or dialogue, <span style="font-size: 16px;">we must see value not only in achieving this or that </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">result, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">but also in recognizing that</span> honest and <span style="font-size: 16px;">open striving</span> in a world of uncertainty and difference <span style="font-size: 16px;">is itself the most important thing. What we must do is keep the conversation going.</span>
===Governmental Engagement – specific discussion based on a policy proposal in the form of a resolution and governmental simulation is necessary to develop life skills that can change the world – because students have already made up their mind or have preconceived notions about how the world works governmental policy discussion doesn’t trade off with conviction but it does foster engagement and competing perspectives that improves social outcomes by fostering a pedagogical framework based on decision making=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Esberg & Sagan 12</span> *Jane Esberg is special assistant to the director at New York University's Center on. International Cooperation. She was the winner of 2009 Firestone Medal, AND **Scott Sagan is a professor of political science and director of Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation “NEGOTIATING NONPROLIFERATION: Scholarship, Pedagogy, and Nuclear Weapons Policy,” 2/17 The Nonproliferation Review, 19:1, 95-108
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">These </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">government</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> or quasi-government think tank </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">simulations</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> often </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">provide</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> very similar </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">lessons for high-level players as are learned by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">students in educational simulations</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Government participants learn about the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">importance of understanding foreign perspectives,</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> the need to practice internal coordination, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and the necessity to compromise and coordinate</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> with other governments in negotiations and crises. During the Cold War, political scientist Robert Mandel noted how </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">crisis exercises</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and war games </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">forced</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> government </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">officials to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">overcome ‘‘bureaucratic myopia</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">,’’ </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">moving beyond their normal organizational roles and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">thinking more creatively</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">about how others might react in a crisis or conflict</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.6 The </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">skills of imagination</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and the</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> subsequent </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">ability to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">predict foreign interests</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and reactions </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">remain </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">critical for real-world</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> foreign policy makers</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. For example, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">simulations of the Iranian nuclear crisis</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">*held in 2009 and 2010 at the Brookings Institution’s Saban Center and at Harvard University’s Belfer Center, and involving former US senior officials and regional experts*</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">highlighted the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">dangers of misunderstanding foreign governments’ preferences</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and misinterpreting their subsequent behavior. In both simulations, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the primary criticism of the US negotiating team lay in a failure to predict accurately how other states</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, both allies and adversaries, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">would behave in response to US policy initiatives.7 By </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">university age</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">students</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> often have a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">pre-defined view of international affairs</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and the literature on simulations in education has long emphasized how such exercises </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">force students to challenge</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> their assumptions</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">about how other governments behave and how their</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> own government works</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.8 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Since simulations became more common as a teaching tool in the late 1950s, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">educational literature has expounded on their benefits</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, from encouraging engagement by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">breaking from the typical lecture format</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, to improving communication skills, to promoting teamwork</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.9 More broadly, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">simulations can deepen understanding by asking students to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">link fact and theory</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, providing a context for facts while </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">bringing theory into the realm of practice</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.10 These exercises are particularly valuable in teaching international affairs for many of the same reasons they are useful for policy makers: </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">they force participants to ‘‘grapple</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> with the issues arising from a world in flux.</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">’’11 </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Simulations have been used successfully to teach students about such disparate topics as European politics, the Kashmir crisis, and US response to the mass killings in Darfur.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">12 </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Role-playing exercises</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> certainly </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">encourage students tolearn political and technical facts* but they learn them in a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">more active style</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Rather than sitting in a classroom and merely receiving knowledge, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">students actively research</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> ‘‘their’’ government’s positions and actively argue, brief, and negotiate with others</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.13 Facts can change quickly; </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">simulations teach students </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">how to contextualize and act on information.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">14</span>
===AND – This is specifically true in the context of transportation infrastructure – only a debate about governmental policy fosters critical decisions making and knowledge that allows for change=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Brown 10</span> — Ernest C. Brown, recognized authority in construction litigation, public works projects and contract management who has resolved more than 2,500 construction disputes, holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an M.S. in Construction Management from the University of California-Berkeley, and a J.D. from the University of California-Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law, 2010 (“California Projects & Delivery Systems,” //California Infrastructure Projects: A Guide to Successful Contracting and Dispute Resolution//, Published by Ernest Brown & Company, LLC, ISBN 9781576253663, Available Online at http://constructionlawyers.com/CM/book/chapter-01.html, Accessed 07-30-2012)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">While the word “infrastructure” rings widely in public speeches of every political stripe during every election cycle, the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">nuts and bolts</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of such projects remain largely </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">inaccessible and obscure</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">to the voting citizenry</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Yet, a keen understanding of the implications and costs of public infrastructure projects is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">essential to democracy</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the shape of the future</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in California. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The creation of infrastructure is </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">a vital process</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that requires a healthy dose of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">California sunshine and the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">participation </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of local citizens</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">A knowledgeable citizenry will assure that public projects are responsive to public needs</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, whether they are schools, parks, marinas, sports arenas, convention centers, public buildings, highways, hospitals, schools, water and wastewater treatment facilities and conveyances, public golf courses or sports fields. These facilities promote a unique and healthy life for our children and a beautiful, unique and pleasant environment for all of California’s 35 million residents. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Each potential project encompasses a unique recipe of planning, architecture, engineering, project finance, construction management and inevitable conflicts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and sticky dollops of state and local politics. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">There are winners and losers</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. These projects are the heart and soul of the public expenditure budget. The accomplishments of public projects are built to last, as are their mistakes, and, unlike many current government programs, will be paid for by future generations. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The creation of public infrastructure involves </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">making tough choices about civic priorities. The public trough is not limitless</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. It takes careful stewardship of public funds to meet the essential public needs of transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, safe water, education, law enforcement and healthcare. While the immediate beneficiaries of a project may be the local residents (neighborhood parks) or the region as a whole (airports), these projects should nurture a larger community and improve public safety, economic security and business prosperity.</span>
===AND – No offense – even if they win politics is ceded now – we must reclaim the state – failure to engage in the state and policy process results in an endless cycle of Iraq – the impact is neoconservative annihilation of the planet=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">KELLNER,</span> PF SOCIAL SCIENCES – UCLA, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">3</span>
[DOUGLAS, An Orwellian Nightmare: Critical Reflections on the Bush Administration”, [[http://www.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/essays/orwelliannightmare.pdf]]] KENTUCKY

After the collapse of the Baath regime in April 2003, the Bush administration began threatening Syria and there have been reports that the neo-conservatives in the administration have planned five more wars (see Clark 2003). <span style="font-size: 16px;">The Bush administration policy of Terror War raises the possibility that Orwell's 1984 might provide the template for the new millennium, as the world is plunged into endless wars, as freedom and democracy are being snuffed out in the name of freedom, as language loses meaning, and as history is constantly revised (just as Bush and his scribes constantly rewrote his own personal history).</span> There is thus the danger that Orwell’s dark grim dystopia may replace the (ideological) utopia of the “information society,” the “new economy,” and a prosperous and democratic globalization that had been the dominant ideology and vision of the past decade. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Questions arise: Will the Bush administration Terror War lead the world to apocalypse and ruin through constant war and the erection of totalitarian police states over the façade of fragile democracy? Or can more multilateral and global solutions be found to the dangers of terrorism that will strengthen democracy and increase the chances for peace and security?</span> There is indeed a danger that Terror War will be a force of historical regression, and the motor of destruction of the global economy, liberal polity, and democracy itself, all to be replaced by an aggressive militarism and totalitarian police state. It could well be that Orwell will be the prophet of a coming New Barbarism with endless war, state repression, and enforced control of thought and discourse, and that George W. Bush and his minions are the architects of an Orwellian future. It could also be the case, however, that the Taliban, bin Laden, Al Qaeda, Saddam Hussein, and the Bush administration represent obsolete and reactionary forces that will be swept away by the inexorable forces of globalization and liberal democracy. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The opposing sides in the current Terror War of the Bush administration reactionaries and Al Qaeda could be perceived as representing complementary poles of an atavistic and premodern version of Islam and nihilistic terrorism confronted by reactionary rightwing conservatism and militarism.</span>12 In this scenario, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">both poles can be perceived as disruptive and regressive forces in a global world that need to be overcome to create genuine historical progress</span>//. If this is the case, Terror War would be a momentary interlude in which two obsolete historical forces battle it out, ultimately to be replaced by more sane and democratic globalizing forces. This is, of course, an optimistic scenario and probably, for the foreseeable future, <span style="font-size: 16px;">progressive forces will be forced to confront intense battles between the opposing forces of Islamic terrorism and rightwing militarism. Yet </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">if</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> democracy and the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">human</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> species </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">are to survive, global movements against militarism</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and for social justice, ecology, and peace </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">must emerge</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to combat and replace the atavistic forces of the present.</span> As a new millennium unfolds, the human race has regressed into a New Barbarism unforeseeable prior to September 11. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">If civilization is to survive, individuals must</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> perceive their enemies and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">organize</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to fight for a better future. And </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">now is the time</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> for liberals, conservatives and those who believe in truth in politics to demand straight talk from the Bush administration and other politicians, and for the media and critics of the politics of lying to take the Bush administration to task for its Big Lies.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">As the history of recent totalitarian regimes demonstrates, systematic deception and lying rots the very fabric of a political society, and if U.S. democracy is to find new life and a vigorous future there must be public commitments to truth and public rejection of the politics of lying</span>//. To conclude: as a response to the September 11 terror attacks, the Bush administration has answered with an intensified militarism that threatens to generate an era of Terror War, a <span style="font-size: 16px;">new arms race, accelerated military violence</span>, U.S. support of authoritarian regimes, an assault on human rights, constant threats to democracy, and destabilizing of the world economy. The Bush regime also provides political favors to its largest corporate and other supporters, unleashing unrestrained Wild West capitalism, exemplified in the Enron scandals, and a form of capitalist cronyism whereby Bush administration family and friends are provided with government favors, while social welfare programs, environmental legislation, and protection of rights and freedoms are curtailed. Consequently, I would argue that Bush administration unilateralist militarism is not the way to fight international terrorism, but is rather the road to an Orwellian nightmare in which democracy and freedom will be in dire peril and the future of the human species will be in question. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">These are frightening times and it is essential that all citizens become informed about the fateful conflicts of the present, gain clear understand</span>//ing//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of what is at stake, and realize that they must oppose at once international terrorism, Bushian militarism, and an Orwellian police-state in order to preserve democracy and a life worthy of a human being. </span>//
===AND – Switch Side Debate – only a set of affirmation and negation allows for a switch side model that fosters effective deliberation – it allows for better critical thinking and advocacy that fosters stronger defense of one’s convictions=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Keller, et. al, 01 –</span> Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago (Thomas E., James K., and Tracly K., Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago, professor of Social Work, and doctoral student School of Social Work, “Student debates in policy courses: promoting policy practice skills and knowledge through active learning,” Journal of Social Work Education, Spr/Summer 2001, EBSCOhost)
SOCIAL WORKERS HAVE a professional responsibility to shape social policy and legislation (National Association of Social Workers, 1996). In recent decades, the concept of policy practice has encouraged social workers to consider the ways in which their work can be advanced through active participation in the policy arena (Jansson, 1984, 1994; Wyers, 1991). <span style="font-size: 16px;">The emergence of the policy practice framework has focused greater attention on the competencies required</span> for social workers <span style="font-size: 16px;">to influence social policy and placed greater emphasis on preparing</span>social work <span style="font-size: 16px;">students for policy intervention</span>(Dear & Patti, 1981; Jansson, 1984, 1994; Mahaffey & Hanks, 1982; McInnis-Dittrich, 1994). The curriculum standards of the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) require the teaching of knowledge and skills in the political process (CSWE, 1994). <span style="font-size: 16px;">With this formal expectation of policy education</span> in schools of social work, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the best instructional methods must be employed to ensure students acquire the requisite policy practice skills and perspectives.</span> The authors believe that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">structured student debates</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> have great potential for promoting competence in policy practice and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">in-depth knowledge</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of substantive topics relevant to social policy</span>. Like other interactive assignments designed to more closely resemble "real-world" activities, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">issue-oriented debates</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> actively engage students in course content. Debates </span>also <span style="font-size: 16px;">allow students to develop and exercise skills that </span>may <span style="font-size: 16px;">translate to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">political activities</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, such as testifying before legislative committees. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, debates may help to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">stimulate critical thinking</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> by shaking students free from </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">established opinions</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and helping them to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">appreciate the complexities involved in policy dilemmas</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>//Relationships between Policy Practice Skills, Critical Thinking, and Learning Policy practice encompasses social workers' "efforts to influence the development, enactment, implementation, or assessment of social policies" (Jansson, 1994, p. 8). Effective policy practice involves analytic activities, such as defining issues, gathering data, conducting research, identifying and prioritizing policy options, and creating policy proposals (Jansson, 1994). It also involves persuasive activities intended to influence opinions and outcomes, such as discussing and debating issues, organizing coalitions and task forces, and providing testimony. According to Jansson (1984,pp. 57-58), social workers rely upon five fundamental skills when pursuing policy practice activities: value-clarification skills for identifying and assessing the underlying values inherent in policy positions; conceptual skills for identifying and evaluating the relative merits of different policy options; interactional skills for interpreting the values and positions of others and conveying one's own point of view in a convincing manner; political skills for developing coalitions and developing effective strategies; and position-taking skills for recommending, advocating, and defending a particular policy. These policy practice skills reflect the hallmarks of critical thinking (see Brookfield, 1987; Gambrill, 1997). The central activities of critical thinking are identifying and challenging underlying assumptions, exploring alternative ways of thinking and acting, and arriving at commitments after a period of questioning, analysis, and reflection (Brookfield, 1987). Significant parallels exist with the policy-making process--identifying the values underlying policy choices, recognizing and evaluating multiple alternatives, and taking a position and advocating for its adoption. Developing policy practice skills seems to share much in common with developing capacities for critical thinking. R.W. Paul (as cited in Gambrill, 1997) states that <span style="font-size: 16px;">critical thinkers acknowledge the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">imperative</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to argue from </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">opposing points </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of view</span>//and <span style="font-size: 16px;">to seek to identify weakness and limitations in one's</span>own <span style="font-size: 16px;">position. Critical thinkers are aware that there are many legitimate points of view, each of which (when thought through) may yield some level of insight.</span> (p. 126) <span style="font-size: 16px;">John Dewey, the philosopher and educational reformer, suggested that the initial advance in the development of reflective thought occurs in the transition from holding </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">fixed, static ideas</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> to an attitude of doubt and questioning engendered by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">exposure to alternative views </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">in social discourse</span>// (Baker, 1955, pp. 36-40). <span style="font-size: 16px;">Doubt, confusion, and conflict resulting from discussion of diverse perspectives "force comparison, selection, and reformulation of ideas and meanings"</span> (Baker, 1955, p. 45). Subsequent educational theorists have contended that <span style="font-size: 16px;">learning requires openness to divergent ideas in combination with the ability to synthesize disparate views into a purposeful resolution</span> (Kolb, 1984; Perry, 1970). On the one hand, clinging to the certainty of one's beliefs risks dogmatism,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> rigidity, and the inability to learn from new experiences.</span> On the other hand, if one's opinion is altered by every new experience, the result is insecurity, paralysis, and the inability to take effective action. The educator's role is to help students develop the capacity to incorporate new and sometimes conflicting ideas and experiences into a coherent cognitive framework. Kolb suggests that, "if the education process begins by bringing out the learner's beliefs and theories, examining and testing them, and then integrating the new, more refined ideas in the person's belief systems, the learning process will be facilitated" (p. 28). The authors believe that <span style="font-size: 16px;">involving students in substantive debates challenges them to learn and grow</span> in the fashion described by Dewey and Kolb. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Participation in a debate stimulates clarification and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">critical evaluation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of the evidence, logic, and values underlying </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">one's own policy position</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> In addition, to debate effectively students must understand and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">accurately evaluate the opposing perspective.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> The ensuing tension between two distinct but legitimate views is designed to yield a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">reevaluation and reconstruction of knowledge</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and beliefs pertaining to the issue.</span>
===AND - Linking the ballot to a should question in combination with USFG simulation teaches the skills to organize pragmatic consequences and philosophical values into a course of action=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hanghoj 8</span> http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant professor.
Joas’ re-interpretation of Dewey’s pragmatism as a “theory of situated creativity” raises a critique of humans as purely rational agents that navigate instrumentally through meansends- schemes (Joas, 1996: 133f). This critique is particularly important when trying to understand how <span style="font-size: 16px;">games</span> are enacted and validated <span style="font-size: 16px;">within</span> the realm of <span style="font-size: 16px;">educational institutions</span> that by definition are inscribed in the great modernistic narrative of “progress” where nation states, teachers and parents expect students to acquire specific skills and competencies (Popkewitz, 1998; cf. chapter 3). However, as Dewey argues, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the actual doings of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">educational gaming</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">cannot be reduced to rational means-ends schemes.</span>Instead, the situated interaction between teachers, students, and learning resources are played out as contingent re-distributions of means, ends and ends in view, which often make classroom contexts seem “messy” from an outsider’s perspective (Barab & Squire, 2004). 4.2.3. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dramatic rehearsal</span>// The two preceding sections discussed how Dewey views play as an imaginative activity of educational value, and how his assumptions on creativity and playful actions represent a critique of rational means-end schemes. For now, I will turn to Dewey’s concept of dramatic rehearsal, which assumes that <span style="font-size: 16px;">social actors deliberate by </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">projecting</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">choosing between</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">various scenarios for future action.</span> Dewey uses the concept dramatic rehearsal several times in his work but presents the most extensive elaboration in Human Nature and Conduct: <span style="font-size: 16px;">Deliberation is a dramatic rehearsal (</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">in imagination</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">) of various competing possible </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">lines of action</span>//… [It] is an experiment in finding out what the various lines of possible action are really like (...) <span style="font-size: 16px;">Thought runs ahead and foresees outcomes, and thereby avoids having to await the instruction of actual failure</span> and disaster. An act overtly tried out is irrevocable, its consequences cannot be blotted out. <span style="font-size: 16px;">An act tried out in imagination is not final or fatal. It is retrievable</span> (Dewey, 1922: 132-3). <span style="font-size: 16px;">This excerpt illustrates how Dewey views the process of decision making (deliberation) through the lens of an imaginative drama metaphor. Thus, decisions are made through the imag</span>inative projection of outcomes, where the “//<span style="font-size: 16px;">possible competing lines of action” are resolved through a thought experiment</span>//. Moreover, Dewey’s compelling use of the drama metaphor also implies that decisions cannot be reduced to utilitarian, rational or mechanical exercises, but that they have emotional, creative and personal qualities as well. Interestingly, there are relatively few discussions within the vast research literature on Dewey of his concept of dramatic rehearsal. A notable exception is the phenomenologist Alfred <span style="font-size: 16px;">Schütz,</span> who <span style="font-size: 16px;">praises Dewey’s concept as a “fortunate image” for understanding </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">everyday rationality</span>// (Schütz, 1943: 140). Other attempts are primarily related to overall discussions on moral or ethical deliberation (Caspary, 1991, 2000, 2006; Fesmire, 1995, 2003; Rönssön, 2003; McVea, 2006). As Fesmire points out, dramatic rehearsal is intended to describe an important phase of deliberation that does not characterise the whole process of making moral decisions, which includes “duties and contractual obligations, short and long-term consequences, traits of character to be affected, and rights” (Fesmire, 2003: 70). Instead, <span style="font-size: 16px;">dramatic rehearsal should be seen as the process of “crystallizing possibilities and transforming them into</span> directive <span style="font-size: 16px;">hypotheses”</span> (Fesmire, 2003: 70). Thus, <span style="font-size: 16px;">deliberation can in no way guarantee</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">the response of a “</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">thought experiment</span>//” will be successful. But //<span style="font-size: 16px;">what it can do</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">is make the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">process</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of choosing more </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">intelligent</span>// than would be the case with “blind” trial-and-error (Biesta, 2006: 8). The notion of <span style="font-size: 16px;">dramatic rehearsal provides a valuable perspective for understanding educational gaming as</span> a simultaneously <span style="font-size: 16px;">real and imagined inquiry into domain-specific scenarios.</span> Dewey defines dramatic rehearsal as the capacity to stage and evaluate “acts”, which implies an “irrevocable” difference between acts that are “tried out in imagination” and acts that are “overtly tried out” with real-life consequences (Dewey, 1922: 132-3). <span style="font-size: 16px;">This </span>description shares obvious similarities with <span style="font-size: 16px;">games</span> as they <span style="font-size: 16px;">require participants to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">inquire into</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and resolve </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">scenario-specific problems</span>// (cf. chapter 2). On the other hand, <span style="font-size: 16px;">there is</span> also <span style="font-size: 16px;">a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">striking difference</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">between moral deliberation and educational game activities in terms of the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">actual consequences</span>// that follow particular actions. Thus, when it comes to educational games, <span style="font-size: 16px;">acts are</span> both <span style="font-size: 16px;">imagined and tried out, but without all the real-life consequences of the</span> practices, <span style="font-size: 16px;">knowledge forms</span> and outcomes that are being simulated in the game world. Simply put, there is a difference in realism between the dramatic rehearsals of everyday life and in <span style="font-size: 16px;">games,</span> which only “play at” or //<span style="font-size: 16px;">simulate</span>// the stakes and risks that characterise the “serious” nature of <span style="font-size: 16px;">moral deliberation</span>, i.e. a real-life politician trying to win a parliamentary election experiences more personal and emotional risk than students trying to win the election scenario of The Power Game. At the same time, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the lack of real-life consequences</span> in educational games <span style="font-size: 16px;">makes it possible to design a</span> relatively <span style="font-size: 16px;">safe learning environment, w</span>here teachers can stage particular game scenarios to be enacted and validated for educational purposes. In this sense, educational games are able <span style="font-size: 16px;">to</span> provide a safe but meaningful way of letting teachers and students make mistakes (e.g. by giving a poor political presentation) and <span style="font-size: 16px;">dramatically rehearse particular “</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">competing </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">possible </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">lines of action”</span>// that are relevant to particular educational goals (Dewey, 1922: 132). Seen from this pragmatist perspective, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the educational value</span> of games <span style="font-size: 16px;">is not</span> so much a question of learning facts or giving //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the “right” answers, but</span>// more a question of <span style="font-size: 16px;">exploring the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">contingent outcomes</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">domain-specific processes</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">problem-based scenarios</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>//


===2NR=== 

Framework










=Round 7= 



===1NC=== 

T - In and TI
Consult JCS
PTX - India Relations
Security
Case
===Block=== 

Case
T
K
Politics

===2NR=== 

K



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]