=Notes= 

=Round 1= 
neg v Bishop guertin DI
1NC: FW and Spivak
2NR: Spivak

=Round 2= 
Aff v chattahoochee KP

====new trade cards==== 
took out suominen
added these:

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The US is key to the multilateral trading system**</span>
<span class="AuthorYear">P</span>**anitchpakdi 0<span class="AuthorYear">4</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, 2/26/2004, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.</span>

**There is a distinction between __trade__ and __free trade__**
**McDonald 04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Patrick McDonald is a professor at UT Austin in IR, international political economy, and international security – PhD from Ohio State. (“Peace through Trade or Free Trade?” Journal of Conflict Resolution 48.4, August 2004, Sage Journals, Callahan)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">These relative effects become even more pronounced when using the Hiscox and Kastner indicator for</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">theory</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and may help to clarify the precise mechanisms linking commerce and conflict.</span>

**Trade collapse kills the global economy and trade growth solves it**
**Krueger 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Anne Krueger is Professor of International Economics at the School for Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. She is also a Senior Fellow of Center for International Development (of which she was the founding Director) and the Herald L. and Caroline Ritch Emeritus Professor of Sciences and Humanities in the Economics Department at Stanford University. (“2. Prospects for the global trading system”, Center for Economic Policy Research, November 2009, [[http://basepub.dauphine.fr/bitstream/handle/123456789/8088/great_trade_collapse.pdf?sequence=1]], Callahan)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On the surface, that spells bad news for the global international trading system,</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">the rapid completion of the Doha Round and strengthens the international economic system.</span>


**Economic collapse leads to war – statistics prove**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jedidiah </span>**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signalling And The Problem Of Economic Crises”, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Second, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on a dyadic level</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">popularity, </span>are statistically linked to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an increase in </span>the use of force<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

=Round 3= 
neg v Blake MS
1NC: Gender, CIR ptx (biotech/bioterror impact), Export Approval CP, heg bad
2NR: Heg bad

=Round 4= 

Aff v Westminster BP
Same aff as Round 2

=Round 5= 

Neg vs. GBN CH (ports w/ econ and arctic)
1NC: Gender, Privatization, ACE Bad, CIR ptx (heg)
2NR: privatization, ace bad, ptx

=Round 6= 
aff v Loyola FM
same aff stuff


=Round 7=