==[[toc]]== 
=Round 1= 
==Act 1== 
we begin our discussion
with an ambiguous message
the opening of Heidegger’s
essay on “Language.”
(//Poetry, Language and Thought//, 1971, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">p. 189)</span>
Man speaks. We speak when we are awake and<span class="1underline"> … </span> Yet it remains to consider what it is to be called – man<span class="1underline">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we'd like to begin with</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a rather clear suggestion</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a moment of break</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of new direction</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we’d like to enact</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a new mutation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> an infrastructural rupture </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a new kind of station</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we’d like to give up</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> on an old formal structure</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> though we’re too wide to fit through</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> this needlepoint puncture</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we have the resolve</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to get off the train</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> stare back at our words</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> their legends of pain</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n ‘o my body</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> make of me [one] who questions’</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> who builds the world of the YOU</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in all insurrections</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">let’s invest in the building</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> an architecture of theoretics</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to transport ourselves</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> through a new autopoetics</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">resolved, resolute</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that the word is the structure</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> inside the transportation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> from this dwelling to its rupture</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we’re a federation of bodies</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> governing words</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> neither major nor minor</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a scale of blue thirds</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the time to be building</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> draws ever near</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> let’s invest in this infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the buck stops here</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">invest this time</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> this fleeting being</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in words that lie</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">never quite agreeing</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">each little word</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> makes us through praxis</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> let’s not take two cabs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> let’s make parataxis</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">words don’t matter</span>
that’s the common perception
but not so fast
Sylvia Winter has a new conception
(Sylvia Wynter, prof. emeritus of Spanish/Portuguese and African/Afro-American Studies at Stanford, in Greg Thomas, “Proud Flesh Inter/Views: Sylvia Wynter.” Proudflesh: A New Afrikan Journal of Culture, Politics & Consciousness: Issue 4, 2006. http://proudfleshjournal.com/issue4/wynter.html, pp. 12-15)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SYLVIA WYNTER: “Yours in the intellectual …. able to make itself into the biological norm of being as long as we continue to think of the human as a purely biological being. You see? </span>


==Act 2== 
Our second act
Makes the reasons clear
Why investing in poetry
Is nothing to fear

Confined by western language
The “savage” stops to chuckle
The jokes on western thought
For its self-deteriorating struggle

Ms. Wynter tells it straight
That our cognition is not free
Lest we change how the game is played
A side of ourselves, we will never see
(Sylvia Wynter, chair of African-American Studies at Stanford, “Ethno or Socio Poetics,” //Alcheringa// 2:2, 1976, p. 83)
The idea of the savage black<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, writes … </span> THE MAJORITY PEOPLES OF THE THIRD WORLD.


**What technocracy has wrought**
**Is to make debate a home**
**For a single mode of thought**
**Detailed here in Heidegger’s poem**
(//Poetry, Language and Thought//, 1971, pp. 1-6, Opening to “The Thinker as Poet” by)

Way and weighing
Stile and saying
On a single walk are found.

Go bear without halt
Question and default
On your single pathway bound.

When the early morning light quietly
grows above the mountains ....

The world's darkening never reaches
to the light of Being.
We are too late for the gods and too
early for Being. Being's poem,
just begun, is man.

To head toward a star - this only.

To think is to confine yourself to a
single thought that one day stands
still like a star in the world's sky.



The way we think
Has been years in the making
Enacting change
Will be no easy undertaking

Diverting from the single pathway bound
Will take a lot of building
The tool to pave us new paths
Karen Gagne argues is poetry

(Karen Gagne, doctoral candidate in Sociology at SUNY Binghamton, “On the Obsolescence of the Disciplines: Frantz Fanon and Sylvia Wynter Propose a New Mode of Being Human.” HUMAN ARCHITECTURE: JOURNAL OF THE SOCIOLOGY OF SELF-KNOWLEDGE, SPECIAL DOUBLE ISSUE, SUMMER 2007, 251-253)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“What is to be done?” and “What can we do?” we ask as activists and intellectuals— as cultural … and nothing “real” to contribute to “the needs of mankind” (45- 46). </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And since words transport</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And our mobility’s up to us</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We agree with Ruth Forman</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That poetry should ride the bus</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By Ruth Forman (Poems need to come from a deep connection to the people. This poem is the most beloved poem of “Poetry for the people.” Forman is trying to articulate a version of poetry that is for the people. Poetic knowledge should be from living with oppressed people.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should hopscotch in a polka dot dress</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">wheel cartwheels</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n hold your hand</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">when you walk past the yellow crackhouse</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should wear bright red lipstick</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n practice kisses in the mirror</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">for all the fine young men with fades</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">shooting craps around the corner</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should dress in fine plum linen suits</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n not be so educated that it don’t stop in</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">every now n then to sit on the porch</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and talk about the comins and goins of the world</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should ride the bus</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in a fat woman’s Safeway bag</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">between the greens n chicken wings</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to be served with Tuesday’s dinner</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should drop by a sweet potato pie</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ask about the grandchildren</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n sit through a whole photo album</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">on a orange plastic covered La-Z-Boy with no place to go</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should sing red revolution love songs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that massage your scalp</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and bring hope to your blood</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">when you think you’re too old to fight</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">yeah</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poetry should whisper electric blue magic</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">all the years of your life</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">never forgettin to look you in the soul</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">every once in a while </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">n smile</span>







=Round 2= 
= = 
=Round 3= 
= = 
=Round 4= 
= = 
=Round 5= 
= = 
=Round 6= 
= = 
=Round 7=