[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Spaceports ISS - NDCAs
=Round 2= 
T - communications
Tao K (2NR)
Cap K
Immigration DA
=Round 3= 
T - investment
Cap K
Give Back the Land (2NR)
=Round 4= 
Spaceports ISS - NDCAs
=Round 5= 
==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention I - ISS Adv from NDCAs</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention II</span>== 
**Contention 2 is spinoffs**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">ISS research increases global crop production</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(NRC 11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">National Research Council</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> for the National Academy of Sciences, Committee for the Decadal Survey on Biological and Physical Sciences in Space, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2011</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, "Recapturing a Future for Space Exploration: Life and Physical Sciences Research for a New Era", accessed September 18, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The mechanisms underlying the control of subsequent plant growth responses have received intensive study, with directional transport of the plant hormone auxin emerging as a significant regulatory element. For example, proteins of the AUX/LAX, PIN, and ABCB families are now known to represent the major transporters that direct the flow of this growth-regulating hormone.14 However, the mechanisms linking gravity perception to the correct placement and relocalization of these transporters, and to the systems that regulate their activities, still remain to be defined.15,16 Other hormones and signals such as cytokinins, ethylene, and reactive oxygen species have also been proposed to be integral regulators of plant gravity-responsive growth17 and there remains a significant open question as to the interrelationships between these regulatory systems. Advancing and integrating our knowledge of plant growth control is a further critical component of research for NASA to pursue. Such analyses will contribute fundamental knowledge of the controls of plant form, with potentially widespread application on Earth, where features such as growth habit (which underpinned the green revolution18) and even responsiveness to gravity (crop recovery after lodging19) where the weather has bent a crop flat to the ground) have important impacts on crop yields and harvesting. This insight into plant development and physiological responses would also be critical to our ability to design bioregenerative life support systems that incorporate plants to provide sustained replenishment of water and air and to provide food for extended manned missions into space. Pg. 4-3 </span>

**Solves war**
**(AFP Citing the IMF Managing Director April 12, 2008)**
**AFP**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span>**Citing the IMF managing director**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Dominique Strauss-Kahn, </span>**April 12, 2008**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, "IMF warns rising food prices raising risk of war", accessed February 13, 2012, [[http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5hL9XafrtiaulCYd-cHwk4eonPFGw]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON (AFP) — Rising food prices could have terrible consequences for the world, including the risk of war, the IMF has said, calling for action to keep inflation in check. "Food prices, if they go on like they are doing today ... the consequences will be terrible," International Monetary Fund managing director Dominque Strauss-Kahn said. " Hundreds of thousands of people will be starving ... (leading) to disruption of the economic environment," Strauss-Kahn told a news conference at the close of the IMF spring meeting here. Development gains made in the past five or 10 years could be "totally destroyed," he said, warning that social unrest could even lead to war. " As we know, learning from the past, those kind of questions sometimes end in war," he said. If the world wanted to avoid "these terrible consequences," then rising prices had to be tackled. Skyrocketing prices on rice, wheat, corn and other staple foods like milk particularly hurt developing nations, where the bulk of income is spent on the bare necessities for survival.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And that solves millions of deaths - by the end of this debate, over 15 hundred people will have died of hunger</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(ThinkQuest Education Foundation Accessed 2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No Author Given</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">ThinkQuest Education Foundation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (online learning library supported by the Oracle Fund), No date given, "An End to World Hunger: Hope for the Future", </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">accessed February 13, 2012</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, [[http://library.thinkquest.org/C002291/high/present/stats.htm]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> In the Asian, African and Latin American countries, well over 500 million people are living in what the World Bank has called "absolute poverty" Every year 15 million children die of hunger For the price of one missile, a school full of hungry children could eat lunch every day for 5 years Throughout the 1990's more than 100 million children will die from illness and starvation. Those 100 million deaths could be prevented for the price of ten Stealth bombers, or what the world spends on its military in two days! The World Health Organization estimates that one-third of the world is well-fed, one-third is under-fed one-third is starving- Since you've entered this site at least 200 people have died of starvation. Over 4 million will die this year. One in twelve people worldwide is malnourished, including 160 million children under the age of 5. United Nations Food and Agriculture The Indian subcontinent has nearly half the world's hungry people. Africa and the rest of Asia together have approximately 40%, and the remaining hungry people are found in Latin America and other parts of the world. Hunger in Global Economy Nearly one in four people, 1.3 billion - a majority of humanity - live on less than $1 per day, while the world's 358 billionaires have assets exceeding the combined annual incomes of countries with 45 percent of the world's people. UNICEF 3 billion people in the world today struggle to survive on US$2/day. In 1994 the Urban Institute in Washington DC estimated that one out of 6 elderly people in the U.S. has an inadequate diet. In the U.S. hunger and race are related. In 1991 46% of African-American children were chronically hungry, and 40% of Latino children were chronically hungry compared to 16% of white children. The infant mortality rate is closely linked to inadequate nutrition among pregnant women. The U.S. ranks 23rd among industrial nations in infant mortality. African-American infants die at nearly twice the rate of white infants. One out of every eight children under the age of twelve in the U.S. goes to bed hungry every night. Half of all children under five years of age in South Asia and one third of those in sub-Saharan Africa are malnourished. In 1997 alone, the lives of at least 300,000 young children were saved by vitamin A supplementation programmes in developing countries. Malnutrition is implicated in more than half of all child deaths worldwide - a proportion unmatched by any infectious disease since the Black Death About 183 million children weigh less than they should for their age To satisfy the world's sanitation and food requirements would cost only US$13 billion- what the people of the United States and the European Union spend on perfume each year. The assets of the world's three richest men are more than the combined GNP of all the least developed countries on the planet. Every 3.6 seconds someone dies of hunger It is estimated that some 800 million people in the world suffer from hunger and malnutrition, about 100 times as many as those who actually die from it each year.</span>

The ISS produces technology spin-offs - slew of empirics

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Wetzel 11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">David Wetzel</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (PhD), </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Decoded Science</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">August 8, 2011</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, accessed September 18, 2011, http://www.decodedscience.com/international-space-station-what-does-the-future-hold/2315</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The benefits of research performed by international astronauts manning this low-earth orbital platform have created or inspired new products and technology. The following are selected examples of the products or services developed based on their research (NASA Benefits of ISS Research). Air Purification Systems – an air scrubber designed to support an onboard plant growth chamber was adapted for use in situations requiring clean air on earth. Applications include food preservation, home and business air purification systems, and doctor’s offices. Ultrasound Diagnostics – resulted in development of ultrasound diagnostic procedures for teaching medical students and use by athletic trainers. This also includes the training of individuals in rural or remote regions around the world to provide images to doctors for analysis in distant locations. Cancer Treatment Delivery Methods – development of new procedures for delivering cancer treatments. One new technique is the delivery of a micro-capsule containing drugs directly into a tumor using an ultrasound enhanced needle or catheter. Climatology – collected and observed data are used to obtain a global profile for determining the long term impact on earth’s climate by aerosols, water vapor, and oxides. Protein Crystals – grow without imperfections and impurities in the weightless environment of the International Space Station. These almost perfect protein crystals are used in the development or manufacture of medicines, food, and insulin for diabetics.</span>


**We’re on cusp of an empathetic revolution created by technological progress – need to sustain innovation to connect billions – solves extinction** 
**Rifkin 10**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jeremy Rifkin President of the Foundation on Economic TrendsHuffington Post “Rethinking Human Nature in the Biosphere Era” Jeremy Rifkin's new book 'The Empathic Civilization: The Race to Global Consciousness in a World in Crisis' (Tarcher/Penguin; January 2010) Posted: 01/11/10 07:30 AM ET (UCLAB </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What is required now is nothing less than a leap to global empathic consciousness and in less than a generation if we are to resurrect the global economy and revitalize the biosphere. The question becomes this: what is the mechanism that allows empathic sensitivity to mature and consciousness to expand through history? The pivotal turning points in human consciousness occur when new energy regimes converge with new communications revolutions, creating new economic eras. The new communications revolutions become the command and control mechanisms for structuring, organizing and managing more complex civilizations that the new energy regimes make possible. For example, in the early modern age, print communication became the means to organize and manage the technologies, organizations, and infrastructure of the coal, steam, and rail revolution. It would have been impossible to administer the first industrial revolution using script and codex. Communication revolutions not only manage new, more complex energy regimes, but also change human consciousness in the process. Forager/hunter societies relied on oral communications and their consciousness was mythologically constructed. The great hydraulic agricultural civilizations were, for the most part, organized around script communication and steeped in theological consciousness. The first industrial revolution of the 19th century was managed by print communication and ushered in ideological consciousness. Electronic communication became the command and control mechanism for arranging the second industrial revolution in the 20th century and spawned psychological consciousness. Each more sophisticated communication revolution brings together more diverse people in increasingly more expansive and varied social networks. Oral communication has only limited temporal and spatial reach while script, print and electronic communications each extend the range and depth of human social interaction. By extending the central nervous system of each individual and the society as a whole, communication revolutions provide an evermore inclusive playing field for empathy to mature and consciousness to expand. For example, during the period of the great hydraulic agricultural civilizations characterized by script and theological consciousness, empathic sensitivity broadened from tribal blood ties to associational ties based on common religious affiliation. Jews came to empathize with Jews, Christians with Christians, Muslims with Muslims, etc. In the first industrial revolution characterized by print and ideological consciousness, empathic sensibility extended to national borders, with Americans empathizing with Americans, Germans with Germans, Japanese with Japanese and so on. In the second industrial revolution, characterized by electronic communication and psychological consciousness, individuals began to identify with like-minded others. Today, we are on the cusp of another historic convergence of energy and communication--a third industrial revolution--that could extend empathic sensibility to the biosphere itself and all of life on Earth. The distributed Internet revolution is coming together with distributed renewable energies, making possible a sustainable, post-carbon economy that is both globally connected and locally managed. In the 21st century, hundreds of millions--and eventually billions--of human beings will transform their buildings into power plants to harvest renewable energies on site, store those energies in the form of hydrogen and share electricity, peer-to-peer, across local, regional, national and continental inter-grids that act much like the Internet. The open source sharing of energy, like open source sharing of information, will give rise to collaborative energy spaces--not unlike the collaborative social spaces that currently exist on the Internet. When every family and business comes to take responsibility for its own small swath of the biosphere by harnessing renewable energy and sharing it with millions of others on smart power grids that stretch across continents, we become intimately interconnected at the most basic level of earthly existence by jointly stewarding the energy that bathes the planet and sustains all of life. The new distributed communication revolution not only organizes distributed renewable energies, but also changes human consciousness. The information communication technologies (ICT) revolution is quickly extending the central nervous system of billions of human beings and connecting the human race across time and space, allowing empathy to flourish on a global scale, for the first time in history. Whether in fact we will begin to empathize as a species will depend on how we use the new distributed communication medium. While distributed communications technologies-and, soon, distributed renewable energies - are connecting the human race, what is so shocking is that no one has offered much of a reason as to why we ought to be connected. We talk breathlessly about access and inclusion in a global communications network but speak little of exactly why we want to communicate with one another on such a planetary scale. What's sorely missing is an overarching reason that billions of human beings should be increasingly connected. Toward what end? The only feeble explanations thus far offered are to share information, be entertained, advance commercial exchange and speed the globalization of the economy. All the above, while relevant, nonetheless seem insufficient to justify why nearly seven billion human beings should be connected and mutually embedded in a globalized society. The idea of even billion individual connections, absent any overall unifying purpose, seems a colossal waste of human energy. More important, making global connections without any real transcendent purpose risks a narrowing rather than an expanding of human consciousness. But what if our distributed global communication networks were put to the task of helping us re-participate in deep communion with the common biosphere that sustains all of our lives? The biosphere is the narrow band that extends some forty miles from the ocean floor to outer space where living creatures and the Earth's geochemical processes interact to sustain each other. We are learning that the biosphere functions like an indivisible organism. It is the continuous symbiotic relationships between every living creature and between living creatures and the geochemical processes that ensure the survival of the planetary organism and the individual species that live within its biospheric envelope. If every human life, the species as a whole, and all other life-forms are entwined with one another and with the geochemistry of the planet in a rich and complex choreography that sustains life itself, then we are all dependent on and responsible for the health of the whole organism. Carrying out that responsibility means living out our individual lives in our neighborhoods and communities in ways that promote the general well-being of the larger biosphere within which we dwell. The Third Industrial Revolution offers just such an opportunity. If we can harness our empathic sensibility to establish a new global ethic that recognizes and acts to harmonize the many relationships that make up the life-sustaining forces of the planet, we will have moved beyond the detached, self-interested and utilitarian philosophical assumptions that accompanied national markets and nation state governance and into a new era of biosphere consciousness. We leave the old world of geopolitics behind and enter into a new world of biosphere politics, with new forms of governance emerging to accompany our new biosphere awareness. The Third Industrial Revolution and the new era of distributed capitalism allow us to sculpt a new approach to globalization, this time emphasizing continentalization from the bottom up. Because renewable energies are more or less equally distributed around the world, every region is potentially amply endowed with the power it needs to be relatively self-sufficient and sustainable in its lifestyle, while at the same time interconnected via smart grids to other regions across countries and continents. When every community is locally empowered, both figuratively and literally, it can engage directly in regional, transnational, continental, and limited global trade without the severe restrictions that are imposed by the geopolitics that oversee elite fossil fuels and uranium energy distribution. Continentalization is already bringing with it a new form of governance. The nation-state, which grew up alongside the First and Second Industrial Revolutions, and provided the regulatory mechanism for managing an energy regime whose reach was the geosphere, is ill suited for a Third Industrial Revolution whose domain is the biosphere. Distributed renewable energies generated locally and regionally and shared openly--peer to peer--across vast contiguous land masses connected by intelligent utility networks and smart logistics and supply chains favor a seamless network of governing institutions that span entire continents. The European Union is the first continental governing institution of the Third Industrial Revolution era. The EU is already beginning to put in place the infrastructure for a European-wide energy regime, along with the codes, regulations, and standards to effectively operate a seamless transport, communications, and energy grid that will stretch from the Irish Sea to the doorsteps of Russia by midcentury. Asian, African, and Latin American continental political unions are also in the making and will likely be the premier governing institutions on their respective continents by 2050. In this new era of distributed energy, governing institutions will more resemble the workings of the ecosystems they manage. Just as habitats function within ecosystems, and ecosystems within the biosphere in a web of interrelationships, governing institutions will similarly function in a collaborative network of relationships with localities, regions, and nations all embedded within the continent as a whole. This new complex political organism operates like the biosphere it attends, synergistically and reciprocally. This is biosphere politics. The new biosphere politics transcends traditional right/left distinctions so characteristic of the geopolitics of the modern market economy and nation-state era. The new divide is generational and contrasts the traditional top-down model of structuring family life, education, commerce, and governance with a younger generation whose thinking is more relational and distributed, whose nature is more collaborative and cosmopolitan, and whose work and social spaces favor open-source commons. For the Internet generation, "quality of life" becomes as important as individual opportunity in fashioning a new dream for the 21st century. The transition to biosphere consciousness has already begun. All over the world, a younger generation is beginning to realize that one's daily consumption of energy and other resources ultimately affects the lives of every other human being and every other creature that inhabits the Earth. The Empathic Civilization is emerging. A younger generation is fast extending its empathic embrace beyond religious affiliations and national identification to include the whole of humanity and the vast project of life that envelops the Earth. But our rush to universal empathic connectivity is running up against a rapidly accelerating entropic juggernaut in the form of climate change. Can we reach biosphere consciousness and global empathy in time to avert planetary collapse?</span>

**The ISS causes cooperation**
**(Lee 11)**
**Ilchi Lee**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, prolific author and educator</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “Space exploration is good for world peace, astronaut says” Ilchi Lee, </span>**March 31, 2011**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. http://www.ilchilee.org/2011/03/31/space-exploration-is-good-for-world-peace-astronaut-says-2/</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The International Space Station is an excellent example of what can be accomplished when the nations of the world work together rather than against each other, and may even raise the prospects of world peace, according to one NASA astronaut. Steve Smith, a NASA liaison to the European Space Agency, told World Radio Switzerland on a recent trip to Geneva that investing in space exploration and the space station would be an important investment in peace. The space station demands intense cooperation between the various nations involved with the program. This type of effort has many parallels to ones that will need to be engaged when leaders discuss prospects for world peace. While it may seem like the nations of the world are currently a long way from achieving peace with all of the fighting and conflict that is going on, the International Space Station may serve as a reminder of what is possible through cooperation and collaboration. Ilchi Lee says that the only way there can be world peace is when individuals throughout the world put down their national identities and begin living a more cooperative existence. </span>

**Our reps are good – motivate space policy action**
**Engdahl 6** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Sylvia, Lifeboat Foundation Scientific Advisory Board member, “Achieving Human Commitment to Space Colonization: Is Fear the Answer?” October 2006, [[http://lifeboat.com/ex/fear.and.space]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Recently, however, I have come to believe that people are never going to support a sufficient space effort for positive reasons, or even to prevent a distant prospect of extinction. We wouldn’t have gotten to the moon without the immediate fear of the Soviets, and we haven’t gotten far since without fear as a motive. Over the past thirty-five years I have watched one space advocacy organization after another fail to gain significant public support despite great enthusiasm on the part of its founders and activists. There have been dozens of them, and for the most part their efforts, like my own, have proved to be mere “preaching to the converted.” They have won few if any new converts from among the apathetic majority. And so I think perhaps the Lifeboat Foundation has the answer. It is not a “space advocacy” organization despite its advocacy of self-sufficient colonies. It focuses on threats of extinction and on multiple ways of combating them, thus appealing to a far wider assortment of people than space enthusiasts. Its emphasis is on potential near-term threats. Many of its supporters believe in the imminent coming of the Singularity, which personally I do not because I don’t believe machine intelligence will surpass the as-yet-incomprehensible powers of the human mind. But differences of opinion on this issue don’t affect the need to establish ourselves off-world for insurance purposes. There is another reason why I’m convinced that fear may be the only impetus strong enough to produce public support for a large-scale space effort. I have long suspected that it is fear, rather than apathy, that has been holding the majority back — not conscious fear, but the stirring of an unconscious recognition that the universe is very much vaster, and more scary, than most people like to think. Pascal’s famous statement, “The eternal silence of these infinite spaces terrifies me,” is the earliest formal expression of a human reaction that is widespread, though seldom acknowledged. But in Pascal’s time and long after, humans were insulated from the universe by a gulf assumed by most to be unbridgeable. Space was an abstraction, a topic studied by astronomers that was in no way connected to people’s lives. With Apollo 8’s voyage to the moon in 1968, the public was suddenly jolted into awareness that our access to space is real. Much is said about the positive effect of the photos of Earth obtained by Apollo 8, which for the first time showed our planet as a globe, a fragile refuge amid barren surroundings, and thereby launched the environmental movement. The concomitant negative impact — spread of gut-level knowledge that space is an actual place containing little that’s familiar to us and perhaps much that we’d rather not meet — is not spoken of. But it may be no less significant. Could this be one of the reasons why interest in space died so soon after the first moon landing, resulting in the cancellation of the last few planned Apollo missions? Is it the cause of the rise of belief in UFO contacts, and could the experience of being abducted by aliens (which in most cases is neither faked nor a manifestation of mental illness, but a perception that emerges in a form indistinguishable from memory) be an unconsciously-formed metaphor for the unknown terrors that may await us in space? Is the decline of positive space imagery in science fiction movies and corresponding rise of fantasy and disaster films a sign that space is less appealing to the public, and nameless evils are more frightening, when the universe is open to humans than it was when it could be classed with the never-never land? Man used to do more than just orbit the Earth. Very probably, it is. This would explain much that has been puzzling to space enthusiasts, who have long sought an answer to what happened to the vision that offered such promise and evaporated so suddenly. Expansion into the new ecological niche of space is clearly a new stage of human evolution, yet after brief acknowledgement at the time of the first moon landings, our society as a whole has been blind to this … or perhaps not. Perhaps underneath people know it all too well. Even space advocates often feel no urgency about bringing off-world settlements into existence; they dream of them as symbols of a hopeful future, but like almost everyone else, they may be reluctant to take the plunge. Only a small minority of adventurers really enjoy the thought of being on the cutting edge of a major step in human evolution, for who knows where that may lead? At the time of Columbus, many thought venturesome ships would fall off the edge of the world, a prospect they viewed with great dismay; others (according to legend), knowing the world extended beyond their maps, marked the edges with the warning “Here Be Dragons”. Figuratively speaking, most people of our time may feel the same way about space exploration. If this is true, then the only way to overcome unconscious fear may be to replace it with conscious fear — fear not of the “dragons” whose nature we cannot imagine, but of the disastrous scenarios we can imagine all too clearly. Paradoxically, fear may be the answer both to why we haven’t progressed in space and how we can motivate a push outward. For the danger we face is real. One way or another, whether or not terrorists employ dangerous technologies or asteroids strike Earth, to remain confined to our home forever would mean our extinction. And we don’t have forever to make up our minds about it; as has often been pointed out, we have only a narrow window of opportunity in which the resources for getting started will remain available. Therefore, if the public must be motivated by fear to bring about commitment to space colonization, then so be it. Even in the conclusion of The Far Side of Evil, written at the height of my optimism about Apollo, I acknowledged that fear can be the saving grace that leads a world to develop space technology. And after all, as David Tamm has said in his master’s thesis on the potential benefits of space development by European nations, “Luckily, preparing for the worst actually carries the great good fortune of being the best means of furthering our common humanity.”</span>


**The ability to live must be decided by the person who is experiencing it – claims that we are all molecules destroys agency**
**Schwartz 2**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Lecturer in Philosophy of Medicine at the Department of General Practice at the University of Glasgow ‘02 (Lisa, , Medical Ethic: A case-based approach, Chapter 6: A Value to Life: Who Decides and How?, www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The second assertion made by supporters of the quality of life as a criterion for decision- making is closely related to the first, but with an added dimension. This assertion suggests that the determination of the value of the quality of a given life is a subjective determi-nation to be made by the person experiencing that life. The important addition here is that the decision is a personal one that, ideally, ought not to be made externally by another person but internally by the individual involved. Katherine Lewis made this decision for herself based on a comparison between two stages of her life. So did James Brady. Without this element, decisions based on quality of life criteria lack salient information and the patients concerned cannot give informed consent. Patients must be given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they think their lives are worth living or not. To ignore or overlook patients’ judgement in this matter is to violate their autonomy and their freedom to decide for themselves on the basis of relevant informa- tion about their future, and comparative con- sideration of their past. As the deontological position puts it so well, to do so is to violate the imperative that we must treat persons as rational and as ends in themselves. It is important to remember the subjectiv-ity assertion in this context, so as to empha-size that the judgement made about the value of a life ought to be made only by the person concerned and not by others.</span>

**The relationship towards death is, and must be, an individual determination—if a person perceives their interests as valuable, or that death will be a different state, then our obligation would be to prevent their death**
**Paterson, 03**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Department of Philosophy, Providence College, Rhode Island (Craig, “A Life Not Worth</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Living?”, Studies in Christian Ethics, http://sce.sagepub.com)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In determining whether a life is worth living or not, attention should be focused upon an array of ‘interests’ of the person, and these, for the competent patient at least, are going to vary considerably, since they will be informed by the patient’s underlying dispositions, and, for the incompetent, by a minimal quality threshold. It follows that for competent patients, a broad-ranging assessment of quality of life concerns is the trump card as to whether or not life continues to be worthwhile. Different patients may well decide differently. That is the prerogative of the patient, for the only unpalatable alternative is to force a patient to stay alive. For Harris, life can be judged valuable or not when the person assessing his or her own life determines it to be so. If a person values his or her own life, then that life is valuable, precisely to the extent that he or she values it. Without any real capacity to value, there can be no value. As Harris states, ‘. . . the value of our lives is the value we give to our lives’. It follows that the primary injustice done to a person is to deprive the person of a life he or she may think valuable. Objectivity in the value of human life, for Harris, essentially becomes one of negative classification (ruling certain people out of consideration for value), allied positively to a broad range of ‘critical interests’; interests worthy of pursuing — friendships, family, life goals, etc. — which are subjected to de facto self-assessment for the further determination of meaningful value. Suicide, assisted suicide, and voluntary euthanasia, can therefore be justified, on the grounds that once the competent nature of the person making the decision has been established, the thoroughgoing commensuration between different values, in the form of interests or preferences, is essentially left up to the individual to determine for himself or herself.</span>

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]