=TOC AFF ROUND II (vs. Pace ES)= 
==[[#TOC AFF ROUND II-Act 1: A Love Story]]**Act 1: A Love Story**== 

**It was many and many a year ago,**
**In a kingdom by the sea,**
**That a maiden there lived whom you may know**
**By the name of ANNABEL LEE;**
**And this maiden she lived with no other thought**
**Than to love and be loved by me.**

**I was a child and she was a child,**
**In this kingdom by the sea;**
**But we loved with a love that was more than love-**
**I and my Annabel Lee;**
**With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven**
**Coveted her and me.**

**And this was the reason that, long ago,**
**In this kingdom by the sea,**
**A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling**
**My beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**So that her highborn kinsman came**
**And bore her away from me,**
**To shut her up in a sepulchre**
**In this kingdom by the sea.**

**The angels, not half so happy in heaven,**
**Went envying her and me-**
**Yes!- that was the reason (as all men know,**
**In this kingdom by the sea)**
**That the wind came out of the cloud by night,**
**Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.**

**But our love it was stronger by far than the love**
**Of those who were older than we-**
**Of many far wiser than we-**
**And neither the angels in heaven above,**
**Nor the demons down under the sea,**
**Can ever dissever my soul from the soul**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.**

**For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**And the stars never rise but I feel the bright eyes**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side**
**Of my darling- my darling- my life and my bride,**
**In the sepulchre there by the sea,**
**In her tomb by the sounding sea.**

<span class="Underline">**We must use the present state of debate as a platform for value creation. Our injection of poetry into the round is an affirmation of the corpse of the resolution as site upon which an infinite number of possibilities of engagement are seeded. We pry open the equivalence of meaning and substitute it with an ontology that is dynamic and unintelligible. Your ballot is a yes to our methodology.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Baudrillard 07** (Jean, Professor at EGS, PhD in Pornography, The intelligence of evil or the lucidity pact pg 207-211)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We have all been everywhere in some past life. This suprasensory reminiscence, this Journey of the soul' through places, bodies and successive lives, this fantasy ubiquity, has nothing to do with the ubiquity that is ours through the networks, through telepresence and telereality. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Though </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">we</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> might </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">imagine the Virtual …truth merely makes things worse.</span>

==[[#TOC AFF ROUND II-Act 2: Death and Chocolate]]**Act 2: Death and Chocolate**== 
**The poem is one of expenditure; a confrontation with nothingness, making peace with our own annihilation. Mystical literature about death is a unique advantage to the 1AC. Inner experience cannot be pre-scripted into inter-changeable code. Instead it rejects the totalizing discourse that seeks to saturate everything with meaning.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Irwin 2002</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(From Alexander Irwin, in Saints of the Impossible, “Exercises in Inutility,” 2002, p. 162-165) [m leap]</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This parti pris of </span>responding to a brutal political and military situation…<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the singularity by </span>which constitutes an event<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, just like the singularity of the world, the singularity by which it too constitutes an event.</span>

**Simulation is death. It is also endless nihilism and totalitarianism**
**Antonio 1995** [Robert; Professor of Sociology at the University of Kansas; Nietzsche’s Antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While modern theorists saw differentiated roles and professions as a matrix of autonomy and reflexivity, …</span>The deadly combination of desperate conforming and overreaching and untrammeled ressentiment paves the way for a new type of tyrant<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

**Knowledge gathering and security planning only acts to further catalogue the grand meaninglessness of our civilization. Buried under mountains of information all the worlds have become a museum; a great zombie-archive which eternally preserves frozen life which is itself already dead.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Baudrillard 76(Jean, Symbolic Exchange and Death p 185-1</span>87, Sage publications) [m leap]**</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Pursued and censured everywhere, death springs up everywhere again….If political economy is the most rigorous attempt to put an end to death, it is clear that only death can put an end to political economy.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**We are an act of terrorism against the system which attempts to maintain a universal hegemonic order. Against this system of meaning we revolt. Any attempt to erase us from the debate space leads to an internal implosion and produces worse forms of terrorist action**</span>
**Baudrillard 2001** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jean Baudrillard, “The Spirit of Terrorism,” Le Monde, 11/2/2001, trans. Rachel Bloul, [[http://www.egs.edu/faculty/jean-baudrillard/articles/the-spirit-of-terrorism/]]) [m leap]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">All the speeches and commentaries betray a gigantic abreaction to the event itself and to the fascination that it exerts…</span>by this terrorist situational transfer.

**We reject their assumption that it is somehow desirable to be disciplined and obedient participants in reformist capitalism, laboring and lurching towards the apocalypse – we should stop numbing ourselves to the lacerated communication of poetry that is excluded by their humanist discourse – opening yourself to the impossible is a pre-requisite to any constructive engagement or construction of meaning**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Land 92</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> ( Nick, Lecturer in Continental Philosophy at the University of Warwick, Thirst for Annihilation, Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism,</span><span class="Underline"> pg 140-141)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Fascism is not so much a symptom ofpolitical desperation, as of libidino-religious numbness, a kind of anti-poetry on the streets. ..when each word is nothing for as long as it has not attained the beyond of words[?]</span>



=TOC AFF ROUND IV (vs. Hooch KP)= 
=1AC – Terrorism= 

**<span style="color: #000000;">Free of memory and of hope,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">limitless, abstract, almost future,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">the dead man is not a dead man: he is death.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Like the God of the mystics,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">of Whom anything that could be said must be denied,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">the dead one, alien everywhere,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">is but the ruin and absence of the world.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">We rob him of everything,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">we leave him not so much as a color or syllable:</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">here, the courtyard which his eyes no longer see,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">there, the sidewalk where his hope lay in wait.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Even what we are thinking,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">he could be thinking;</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">we have divvied up like thieves</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">the booty of nights and days. </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Not a single star will be left in the night.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">The night will not be left.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I will die and, with me,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">the weight of the intolerable universe. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I shall erase the pyramids, the medallions,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">the continents and faces.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I shall erase the accumulated past.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I shall make dust of history, dust of dust.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Now I am looking on the final sunset.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I am hearing the last bird.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">I bequeath nothingness to no one. </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">What is inside a poem? What is outside of it? Where are its boundaries? This is the paralogical status of a poem – a singularity which holds an infinite series of interpretations</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">This is poetry’s challenge to systemized knowledge: a glipse of the unknown; a star collapsing to an infinite destiny in zero space; a singularity. All attempts to interpret the poem amount to a violent arresting of dynamism; an erasure of radical alterity.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Similar to the structural indeterminacy of the poet’s intent, the poet can never be known, the reader’s interpretation cannot be known by the poet. They never know how they’ll be read.</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">There is a hidden relationality shared with the suicide bomber. We may never access their intent and they never know how their act will be read. All attempts to know or comprehend the suicide bomber are a violent effacement of a singular gesture.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">It is this unknowability, glimpsed in poetry’s suicide bombing, that opens up the space of alterity, a metaphorical relation without totalizing equivalence that effaces all meaning and makes living impossible.</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Poetry terrorizes western philosophical systems by pointing beyond knowledge. Similar to how the suicide bomber is never sure of the way the gesture is received – the poet is blind to the fx of their writing. Inversely, similar to the way we may enver know the motives of the now dead suicide bomber, we may never know the meaning of the poet. In fact, each attempt to answer an over writing of the bomb/poem with the self. So we are left in a dead lock: obliged to respond whilst painfully aware of the inadequacy of each attempt to reply insofar as it overwrites the other within our selves. Herein lay meaning! In a transparent universe of pure exchange, only a singular object for which no response or interpretation is adequate opens up the necessary space of otherness, for comparison without equation, for value without equivalence.</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Fernando 10** (Jeremy Fernando, The Suicide Bomber and her gift of death, 2010, pg 213 - 222, DA: 1/24/12)</span>
The poet<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, irremediably</span>split between exaltation<span class="Underline">… except the fact that she is dead. </span>

<span class="Underline">**1. All attempts to understand the singular gesture of the suicide bomber amount to an obscene imposition of a hermeneutic model that flattens all difference – this is the true terror – an effacement of alterity by a mundane recirculation of the same in a transparent universe of metaphysical comfort. This too is a type of death: a sterile life that negates the unknown and drains life of its own potential. It is from this dead structure that suicide bombing escape.** </span>
**Fernando10** (Jeremy, The Suicide Bomer and her gift of death, pg 148-150)
__At__ __the risk of banality__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__we must__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span> __itself____,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> into mere dogma and orthodoxy.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">We must maintain the incomprehensibility of the suicide bomber. The alternative of attempting integration locks us into an economy of reciprocation. This is the logic of the wars in Afghanistan and iraq: an attempt to respond to the incomprehensible act of 9/11 via an obscene, calculative methodology. Such a response vulgarly reduces lives to their mere statistics, where we match their death with ever more death, creating an infinitely regressive cycle of violent escalation. Against this, the death of individuals should be viewed as a singular and incomprehensible event which opens space for reflection.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Fernando 8 </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">(Jeremy,Reflections on (t)error, VDM verlag/Lightning source, pg 41-42)</span>
__<span style="color: #000000;">In desperation we attempt to … that has captured our imagination</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Nation state is founded on war based on the construction of an other against which it can pit its narratice of the invading enemy vermin—the blaming of the other for the violence of the state is an act of whitewashing that covers up the blood spilt on behalf of the civilized world. It is the disappearance at the heart of suicide bombing and poetic terror that terrifies you for it reveals that we in essence are torturing ourselves in the name of security-- </span>**
**Fernando 2008** (Jeremy, Refelctions on (T)error, VDM Verlag/Lightning Source, pg 49-52)
__The strategy of all nation states is the____…__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">remains forever: (s)he is still lere out there. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">The topic is a train, existing in the simulated world that debate has constructed, running on non-existent power through ruined tracks that holds up contemporary practices with pillars of meaning and information. It is this form of simulation that reinstates a new form of authoritarianism and fascism under the facade of democratic engagement </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Hegarty 04</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Paul Hegarty 2004 7/30 Jean Baudrillard: Live Theory P. 91-93 MRL)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The era of </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">simulation</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">, or </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">hyperreality</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">brings</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> serious </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">… ceremonial edifice of former societies'</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (p. 65;69).</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Trains, planes and highway lanes all operate within Disneyland. It is America’s obsession with transportation and the acceleration of all signs and symbols that reduces the community to mere statistics to be regurgitated endlessly – recycled and circulated but never actually moving </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Baudrillard 94</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> (Jean, 1994, Smart French dude who writes books while he’s dead, Simulacra and Simulation p. 12-13)</span>
__<span style="color: #000000;">Disneyland is a perfect model of</span>____<span style="color: #000000;"> … undiscoverable contradictions</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Comparison between singular usages of language pushes meaning to the poin</span>t of saturation and exhaustion.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Gill</span><span class="Underline">es and Felix; Anti-Oedipus) 207</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Desire no longer dares to desire, … the signifier itself in the second sense.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Work DA – Their interpretation literally frames work as compulsory production. Their focus on sterilizing the debate community from the experience of unknowing is a strategy meant to achieve maximum productivity and maximum life for future generations – this results in endless l</span>abor and the denial of intimacy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Brewis and Warren 2k1</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Joanna Brewis and Samantha Warren, Joanna Brewis is of lecturer in management at the University of Essex, Samantha Warren is a researcher and part-time lecturer in Organization Behavior at the University of Portsmouth, “Pregnancy as Project: Organizing Reproduction,” Administrative Theory & Praxis, Vol. 23, No. 3 (Sep., 2001), pp. 383-406, (JSTOR))</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">As already intimated, one especially significant project is work, or productive labor. Bataille (1997, p. 316) argues that "he who serves -who works-has the value of that which will be later, not of that which is. For he must apprehend himself in … live for as long as possible.</span>


=<span style="text-decoration: none;">New Neg Cards (Round V vs. UC Lab FG)</span>= 

=1NC Eternal Return= 
**No New advantages because of eternal return**
**Owen 95** (David Owen 1995 "Nietzsche, Politics and Modernity”, p. 112-5)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This passage is characterised by a … (‘Once more unto the diet, dear friends . . .’). </span>

**Voting issue for disclosure violation**


=1NC Poem= 
<span class="Underline"> **Take this kiss upon the brow!**</span>
<span class="Underline">**And, in parting from you now,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Thus much let me avow-**</span>
<span class="Underline">**You are not wrong, who deem**</span>
<span class="Underline">**That my days have been a dream;**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Yet if hope has flown away**</span>
<span class="Underline">**In a night, or in a day,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**In a vision, or in none,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Is it therefore the less gone?**</span>
<span class="Underline">**All that we see or seem**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Is but a dream within a dream.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**I stand amid the roar**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Of a surf-tormented shore,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**And I hold within my hand**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Grains of the golden sand-**</span>
<span class="Underline">**How few! yet how they creep**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Through my fingers to the deep,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**While I weep- while I weep!**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O God! can I not grasp**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Them with a tighter clasp?**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O God! can I not save**</span>
<span class="Underline">**One from the pitiless wave?**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Is all that we see or seem**</span>
<span class="Underline">**But a dream within a dream?** </span>