=[[toc]]= 
= = 

=RD 1 VS Head Royce= 
==1NC Framework== 

**Interpretation: The aff should defend an explicit advocacy of topical change in state policy. The aff should win if the plan and its defense is preferable to negative advocacy. This is best:**

**There is nothing subversive about the aff’s transgression of debate norms. Resistance to the rules serve to engrain the very rules that are resisted, thus as we move further away from obedience, our desire to break free only grows.**
**Zizek, 2000** (Slavoj Zizek, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, 2000, The Fragile Absolute, p. 23-25
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This example brings home the__..... AND ....__ </span> __established artistic market.”’__


**Rules provide the subjective with an alibi as to how we can never achieve our desires. That’s good because the demands of the super ego are otherwise impossible and torturous.**
**Dean, 2004** (Jodi Dean, Department of Political Science Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 2004, Law and Critique, Vol. 15, p. 11-12)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But, there is a twist. </span>__Th... AND ...__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, I explore this aspect of law and superego in more detail. </span>


**Sovereignty might get a bad rap from the aff but it isn’t nearly as bad as they make it out to be. Discourses of the law’s violent underside obscures its potential to get stuff done. Making the trains run on time is how we get to go to debate tournaments. Recognition of this fact means that we don’t have to resist—we can see rules as strategic.**
**Derrida, 2004** (Jacques Derrida, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 2004, For What Tomorrow? A Dialogue With Elisabeth Roudinesco, p. 91-92)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">J.D.: A moment ago you spoke of .... AND ... sovereignty, even when it seems possible. </span>

**Our contest should be over demands on the state. Legal institutions allow us to enforce our will while demands and right claims are the ultimate act of agonism. This is the best way to affirm human living**
**Hatab, 2002** (Lawrence J. Hatab [philosophy prof somewhere] “Prospects For A Democratic Agon: Why We Can Still Be Nietzscheans” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 24 (2002) 132-147, on muse)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover, </span>__the structure of an .... AND ... rights simply in terms of the human capacity to say No.__


==1NC Code Blue== 

**Good News!** **Politics are dead!**
**Baudrillard 1993** (Transparency of Evil, pages 39-40)

Once upon a time there..... AND ...... __to the interests of statistical disorder__.


**Hence, the aff’s methodology is mistaken in assuming that their emphasis on local experience can translate into political change. Their aff merely establishes political redistributions onto others, maintaining the system**
**Katz 2000** (Adam Katz, English Instructor at Onodaga Community College. 2000. Postmodernism and the Politics of “Culture.” Pg. 146-147)

"__Habermas’s understanding of undistorted ..... AND ....__ __formation of the cultural studies__ public intellectual.

**__Code Blue__**
**In fact, today no one can be expected to be entirely responsible for their own life, answerable to every aspect of their current situation or social location – this is a utopian hoax! Yet the affirmative continues to call for such impossibility, chaining all under its method to a truly unheard of form of self-servitude and management**
**Baudrillard 1993** (Jean, The Transparency of evil: essays on extreme phenomena / Jean Baudrillard; translated by James Benedict. London: New York: Verso, 1993 Page 165)

__"We live in a culture..... AND .....__ __a truly unheard of servitude__."



**This can best be witnessed in the affirmatives call for dialogical “self-expression” – one the likes of which even Foucault himself would be proud - such a methodology institutes the ultimate form of violence to singularity and obscenity; a most degraded form of existence**
**Baudrillard 2001** (Jean, “Dust Breeding” Ctheory.)

__"Foucault used to refer **.... AND ....**__ __**aesthetic sensation**__" (Walter Benjamin)."


**__Code Blue__**
**This is a form of methodological importation absent praxis in which the affirmative cumulates in blah at best**
**Macedo 1999** (Donaldo, An Anti-Method Pedagogy: A Freirian Perspective. Rage and Hope. Excerpts from Mentoring the Mentor: A Critical Dialogue with Paulo Freire. Mentoring the Mentor is a collection of articles written on Freirian theory, recreating Freirian dialogue in a printed format. In it, sixteen scholars take part in an exchange with Paulo Freire. http://www.edb.utexas.edu/faculty/scheurich/proj3/freire6.html#)

"An example he gives is the**__.... AND ,,,,,__** __**equal verbalism, or blah."**__


**Additionally, this standpoint focus on experience remakes and reaffirms dominant methods of structural violence. Because identities are reinserted into the economy of production, new subjectivities remerge out of same materials that gave rise to conflict in the first place.**
**Katz 2000** (Adam Katz, English Instructor at Onodaga Community College. 2000. Postmodernism and the Politics of “Culture.” Pg. 146-147)

"However, __according to the ..... AND .....__ __and respecting multiplicities and differences__."


**__Code Blue__**
**This is because the movement for liberation and emancipation itself serves as an expression of modern capital – a world where we ourselves are free-floating capital to be exchanged on the freedom market of modern debate. The affirmative****’s demand for a responsible, aligned subject creates an indescribable debt in humanity’s symbolic stock – more violent than the history of capital.**
**This is Baudrillard ’05** (The Intelligence of Evil)


__"Freedom? A dream!__ __Everyone__ aspires to..... AND ..... of moral and psychological law."




**Yet, the affirmative would have us continue to believe we are responsible subjects who fully align with ourselves politically, socially, and ethically – debating about no discourse that we can’t defend, no way of being that we are not – preventing us, ultimately, from being or speaking evil of any kind. This is what we’ll call tyranny of the self – a type of involuntary servitude that breeds political fascists by enslaving life to itself.**
**This is Baudrillard 2001**

"To be able to disobey moral __..... AND .... serf to no master but himself."__

**__Code Blue__**
**Instead,** **Prefer the strategy of the masses (this card is really long)**
**Baudrillard 1983** (Jean, In the Shadow of the Silent Majorities or The End of the Social and Other Essays. Pages 30-48)

"__The mass realizes that ..... AND .... for any useless and absurd purpose.”__

==__2NC Code Blue Cards__== 


**The Debate space suffocates their activism in the mode of communication, there is no uniqueness to any of their offense because their speech merely replicates the logic of consumption at the root cause of their harms.**
**Baudrillard, 2008** (Jean, //Jean Baudrillard: Theory’s Destiny,// pp. 15-16, NG)

__There are objects **.....**__ __**great self-fulfilling prophecy**.__


**Their dialectical opposition to the system of fascism within the debate space ignores the current strategy of hegemonic power, which has already liquidated any possibility of critical thought or condensation. Capitalism and domination have become self reflexive, for it is the system itself which speaks evil from the very positions of evil, which subsumes all forms of critical protest into the interworkings of the system**
**Baudrillard ’10** (Jean, “Carnival and Cannibal: Ventriloquous Evil”, Seagull Books 2010, translated by Chris Turner, pp. 57-61)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Banque Nationale de Paris __...........__</span> __- which is the equivalent of hegemony plain and simple.__


=__Round 2 Aff__= 

=1AC Plan= 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in Next Generation Air Transportation System avionics equipage incentive programs.**

==1AC Solvency== 
**Congressionally authorized __public-private partnerships__ have //__leveraged stakeholder investment__// to meet __NextGen Equipage deadlines.__**
**Aviation Week 4/16**<span style="font-size: 8px;">/13 (“NextGen Equipage Fund Close To Landing First Airline Customers” </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/Article.aspx?id=/article-xml/awx_04_16_2013_p0-569951.xml]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken) </span>
__NEXA__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">Capital</span>__’s NextGen fund, set up .......................__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">equip will be banned from some airspace. </span>

**However, lack of Congressional appropriations is preventing the FAA from committing financial liability to operators.**
**Colliver et al 12**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Forrest W. Colliver Stephen L. Giles Deborah A. Kirkman Sean F. McCourt Jack McQueston Quang A. Nguyen, MITRE Corp., “Incentivizing Avionics Equipage for the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen)” [[http://www.mitre.org/work/tech_papers/2012/12_4922/12_4922.pdf]], ken)</span>
__Incentivizing Avionics Equipage for__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">the Next Generation Air Transportation System </span>__(NextGen)__
__The Investment Context__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">Another c__........................................__</span>__in investments in NextGen__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> avionics. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">That means only the plan’s //__federal commitment__// to __equipage incentives__ can ensure NextGen benefits</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dyment 11 (Michael J., NextGen Equipage Fund, //Transitioning to Satellite-Based Air Traffic Control//, Geospacial Today 9/15/11, LexisNexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The US airline position on NextGen</span><span class="Underline">Airline........................ realising the benefits of a fully functioning </span>NextGen<span class="Underline"> system.</span>

==1AC Radio== 

Same stuff on our normal page but this impact scenario

**Space weather collapses navigation systems**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Doherty 11</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Patricia, BS in Mathematics and Research Analyst at the Institute of Space Research at Boston College and has published numerous articles on the ionosphere, “Space Weather Effects on GPS and WAAS” August 5, 2011, Institute of Scientific Research, pg online @ </span>[[http://www.bc.edu/content/bc/research/isr/spaceweathereffects.html]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">) ///ZABD///</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__Space Weather events__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> such __..............__</span>__o provide positioning information.__</span>
**That’s key to stop Caribbean narco-terrorism**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Purdy 8</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pgonlinegreenhill-au) ///ZABD///</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__In U.S.__ __Southern Command's ...................____from being detected and harmed by insurgents__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span></span>
**Caribbean narcoterrorists will use bioweapons**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Flynn and Bryan 1</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8px;"> (Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001,</span>[[http://www.cfr.org/border-and-ports/terrorism-porous-borders-homeland-security-case-us-caribbean-cooperation/p4844]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8px;">) ///ZABD////</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ Terrorist acts can take __..................__</span> __biological weapons within national borders.__</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Causes extinction and o/w nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Ochs, 2 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Richard, BS in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University, with honors, BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE IMMEDIATELY ABOLISHED, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">http://www .freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, .............. </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>__




==1AC Russia== 
**Russia is currently excluded from the NATO cooperative airspace security architecture due to lack of data integration frameworks – including them is key to regional military transparency**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Loukianova 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(May. Anya. Research Associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. “Cooperative Airspace Security in the Euro-Atlantic Region” [[http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/cooperative_airspace_security_in_the_euro__525.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">This paper offered an overview __..........................__</span>__civilian____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">‐</span>____military cooperation.__

**There are cooperative civil-military airspace initiatives between NATO and Russia now, but they lack interoperability which inhibits transparency**
**Franc****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">̧</span>ois 12**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Isabelle, Distinguished Visiting Research Fellow at the Center for Transatlantic Security Studies at the National Defense University, “United States European Command and Russia in 2012 and Beyond: Dealing With Cold War Leftover While Looking Ahead” [[http://www.acus.org/files/ISP/francois_eucomib.pdf]], ken) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">One of</span> __the most successful ......................__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> as in terms of operational cooperation with Russia. </span>

**NextGen equipage facilitates that interoperability**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wonneberger 12</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(Lionnel. Vice-President, Strategy and Marketing, ATM, Thales ATM Transformation Initiatives.“The road to global ATM transformation and harmonization,” Airspace, Issue 17 Quarter 2 2012.[[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CDkQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.canso.org%2Fcms%2Fstreambin.aspx%3Frequestid%3DE204C038-B42C-489E-9D40-0F11592DAF13&ei=45QtUZjCMaePigKPyICwAQ&usg=AFQjCNEYpz6TBagt19ibaNuhiOnktGbY8w&sig2=8n6XEVhFbOWVHImPlTFS6Q&bvm=bv.42965579,d.cGE]] Pismarov)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SESAR and </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">NextGen</span>____<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> may be ........................................</span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> and </span>direct SESAR NextGen coordination.__

**Specifically, it encourages Russian transition to interoperable airspace**
**FAA 9** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(“FAA International Strategies 2010 to 2014 Africa, Europe, and Middle East Region” </span>[[http://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/apl/international_affairs/eau/media/international_priorities_aeu.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Improve </span>__global interoperability__<span style="font-size: 8px;">__........__</span>__l basis and through the Cross Polar Working Group__<span style="font-size: 8px;">: Iceland, Russia. </span>

**Harmonization with Russia __depends__ on successful implementation of NextGen– they model their system after the US**
**Duncan 10** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Andrew, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, “Air Traffic Control in Russia. ASCI 606: Air Traffic Control and National Airspace Systems”, </span>[[http://www.academia.edu/808103/Air_Traffic_Control_in_Russia]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Today, </span>__civil aviation .......____ystem currently in place in **the U****nited States**.__

**That solves current exclusion and promotes transparency – contextual evidence**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Loukianova 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(May. Anya. Research Associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. “Cooperative Airspace Security in the Euro-Atlantic Region” </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/cooperative_airspace_security_in_the_euro__525.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Pismarov)</span>
__In today’s .......__ __decreasing information asymmetries to all regional actors.__



**Only transparent NATO-Russia cooperation prevents Arctic tensions from escalating**
**Holtsmark 09** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(February. Sven G. Deputy Director at the Norwegian Institute for Defense Studies. “Towards cooperation or confrontation? Security in the High North,” Research Division - NATO Defense College, Rome - No. 45” [[http://se2.isn.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/97586/ipublicationdocument_singledocument/B97C0503-C2E1-40D2-A4E8-E4ECE0FC0DA1/en/rp_45en.pdf]] Pismarov) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">However, there are serious.......................g Allied support in a crisis situation.</span>

**And, cooperation can only be made transparent through global data integration –purely diplomatic frameworks lack enforcement and accountability**
**CFR 4/16**<span style="font-size: 8px;">/13(Council on Foreign Relations, “The Future of the Arctic: A New Global Playing Field” </span>[[http://www.cfr.org/arctic/future-arctic-new-global-playing-field/p30471]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">GRIMSSON: That is absolutely __.....................__</span> __could be__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> the </span>__most important__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> contribution. </span>


**And, Arctic conflict goes nuclear**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wallace, 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">(Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The fact is,__.............................__</span>__climate change.”__

**Best scholarship proves our impact**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Murray 12 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">(Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">It is no overstatement to say....................................as changes to the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 8px;">Aff round 3 </span>= 



==<span style="font-size: 8px;">1AC Tourism Ad v</span>== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**NextGen is key to establish a technological and legal framework for the commercial space industry**</span>

**JPOD 12** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(“Sky Not the Limit for Commercial Space” __[[http://www.jpdo.gov/newsarticle.asp?id=18]], ken)__</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The </span>__Next Gen__<span style="font-size: 8px;">eration Air ……………</span>**__.__** <span style="font-size: 8px;">That is what we are focused on," said Jeffrey N. Shane, Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. </span>



**The commercial space industry is about to take off – its success decreases existential risk**

**Foust 13** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Jeff, Editor for The Space Review, go-to author of the 2011-12 Space Topic, “Asking the big questions for the next ten years” 2/11/13 </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2239/1]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken) </span>

__There are signs, ………………….. government exploration beyond Earth orbit.__





**However, it’s obsolete without regulations**

**Sgobba 11** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(T., ESA Independent Safety Office Sub-orbital Space Tourism Regulation: The Safety Perspective</span>

[[http://download.esa.int/docs/ECSL/Space_Toursism-The_safety_perspective_plus_notesT_Sgobba.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Government </span>__regulations protect____the__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">……………..</span> __No-regulations is not an option__



**Scenario 1 is launch costs**



<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Space tourism is critical to make the accumulation of space resources economically viable – solves the root cause of war </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Collins and Autino, 10** - </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">* Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)**</span>

**The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> major </span>source of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> social friction, i……………… prospects for humanity are bleak.</span>**



Resource wars cause extinction

Heinberg 3**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (Richard, New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, p. 230)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">While the US has not declared war on any nation since 1945, it has nevertheless bombed or invaded a total of 19 countries and stationed troops, or engaged in direct or indirect military action, in dozens of others. During the Cold War, the US military ………………………….</span>__of humanity and most of the biosphere.__**



Scenario 2 is scientific education



It’s declining now which causes extinction – only space tourism solves.

Collins and Autino, 10 **- <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">* Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND </span>** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The educational value of space………………a uniquely exciting goal for young people to aim for. </span>



**And, it __motivates investment__ in related space innovation technology because it’s __standardized as entertainment__. Absent this __demand__, solvency is __delayed__ and __ineffective__**

**Parsons 07**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">(Catherine E Parsons, Chapman Law Review, 2005-2006, JD Candidate, Chapman University School of Law, BS in Mathematics, “Space Tourism: Regulating Passage to the Happiest Place on Earth,” </span>[[http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/chlr9&div=22&g_sent=1&collection=journals|**http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/chlr9&div=22&g_sent=1&collection=journals**]]<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Pismarov)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Space tourism is a ………………**</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> such as mineral gathering and deep space exploration.34</span>



**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Specifically, it’s key to space biotechnology research which spills over to terrestrial applications – solves disease </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Clement and Bukley, 6</span>**

<span style="color: #000000;">[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]]]</span>



<span style="color: #000000;">Often praised as __the most…………………..__</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> characteristics of genuine tissue.</span>



**Extinction**

**Yu 9**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8px;">A pandemic will kill off all …………………………. — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>



**<span style="color: #000000;">Independently, advances in __biotech key to solve bioterror__ – __now is key__ </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Maurer 7 </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">(Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. Director of the Goldman School Project at the University of California, Berkeley on Information Technology and Homeland Security Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield) </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The new realities of terrorism and suicide bombers pull us ………………….. organisms. </span><span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Time is running out</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>



**<span style="color: #000000;">Causes extinction and o/w nuclear war </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Ochs, 2 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Richard, BS in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University, with honors, BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE IMMEDIATELY ABOLISHED, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">http://www .freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Of all the weapons of mass …………………………</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>__





**<span style="color: #000000;">US biotech innovation is rapidly declining – the industry has picked all the low hanging fruit, and no new innovations are in the pipeline</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Kircher, 2011</span>**

<span style="color: #000000;">[Manfred. Executor of the Cluster Industrielle Biotechnologie. “The Pharmaceutical Industry Needs More Innovation in Bioprocesses.” Future Medical Chemistry 3(14). http://www.future-science.com/doi/pdf/10.4155/fmc.11.124] </span>

__<span style="color: #000000;">Despite increasing…………………..patents will not balance the loss.</span>__



**<span style="color: #000000;">Only //__regulatory__// __commercial space activity__ removes financial litigation barriers to investment in biotech research </span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Clement and Bukley, 6</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">[Gilles.Centre </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Na</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">tional de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18.[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]]]</span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">In general, efforts to find commercial …………………</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> characteristics are attractive to business. </span>__



==1AC Radio - grid scenario== 
**Space waeather causes grid shutdown and collapses the economy**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hapgood 10</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Mike, PhD and Professor at Lancaster University and Head of the Space Environmental Group at RAL Space and he isan internationally recognised expert in space weather with over 30 years experience in solar-terrestrial physics, a key part of the science of space weather, has ledseveral major space weather studies for the European Space Agency and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather WorkingTeam, and is also current chair of the UK solar-terrestrial physics community group, “Space WeatherIts impact on Earth andimplications for business” Ral Space Report Comissioned by Lloyds 360 Risk Insight, November 4, 2010, pg 16, pg</span>[[http://www.stfc.ac.uk/Resources/pdf/7311_Lloyds_360_SpaceWeather_03.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">) ///ZABD///</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">During magnetic </span>__storms__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, rapid changes __...............__</span>__of severe space weather on national infrastructure.__</span>


**Grid shutdown causes extinction**
**Adams ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[Mike Adams; Editor-in-Chief and founder of Natural News Network, Mike has authored over 1800 articles on environmental and health issues and authored 11 books. This article draws its information from sources including The International Business Times Science, The World Nuclear Association, National Geographic, and NASA; “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” Sept. 13th 2011;] [[http://www.naturalnews.com/033564_solar_flares_nuclear_power_plants.html]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Imagine a world </span>without electricity<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Even for just a week. Imagine New York City with no electricity, or Los Angeles, or Sao Paulo. Within 72 hours, most cities around </span>the world will devolve into total chaos<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, complete with looting, violent crime, and runaway fires. But that's not even the bad news. Even if all the major cities of the world burned to the ground for some other reason, humanity could still recover because it has the farmlands: the soils, the seeds, and the potential to recover, right? And yet the real crisis here stems from the realization that once there is no power grid, all the </span>nuclear power plants<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of the world suddenly </span>go<span class="Underline"> into </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">"emergency mode" and are forced to rely on their on-site emergency power backups to circulate coolants and prevent nuclear </span>meltdown<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">s from occurring. And yet, as we've already established, these facilities typically have only a few hours of battery power available, followed by perhaps a few days worth of diesel fuel to run their generators (or propane, in some cases). Did I also mention that half the people who work at nuclear power facilities have no idea what they're doing in the first place? Most of the veterans who really know the facilities inside and out have been forced into retirement due to reaching their lifetime limits of on-the-job radiation exposure, so most of the workers at nuclear facilities right now are newbies who really have no clue what they're doing. There are 440 nuclear power plants operating across 30 countries around the world today. There are an additional 250 so-called "research reactors" in existence, making a total of roughly 700 nuclear reactors to be dealt with (http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/inf01.html). Now imagine the scenario: You've got a massive solar flare that knocks out the world power grid and destroys the majority of the power grid transformers, thrusting the world into darkness. Cities collapse into chaos and rioting, martial law is quickly declared (but it hardly matters), and every nation in the world is on full emergency. But that doesn't solve the really big problem, which is that </span><span class="Underline">you've got 700 nuclear reactors that can't feed power into the grid</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (</span><span class="Underline">because</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> all </span>the transformers are blown up<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">) and yet simultaneously have to be fed a steady stream of emergency fuels to run the generators the keep the coolant pumps functioning. How long does the coolant need to circulate in these facilities </span>to cool the nuclear fuel<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">? Months. This is also the lesson of Fukushima: You can't cool nuclear fuel in mere hours or days. It </span>takesmonths<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to bring these nuclear facilities to a state of cold shutdown. And that means in order to avoid a multitude of Fukushima-style meltdowns from occurring around the world, you need to truck diesel fuel, generator parts and nuclear plant workers to every nuclear facility on the planet, ON TIME, every time, without fail, for months on end. Now remember, this must be done </span><span class="Underline">in the middle of the total chaos breakdown of modern civilization</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, where there is no power, where law enforcement and emergency services are totally overrun, where people are starving because food deliveries have been disrupted, and when looting and violent crime runs rampant in the streets of every major city in the world. Somehow, despite all this, you have to run these diesel fuel caravans to the nuclear power plants and keep the pumps running. Except there's a problem in all this, even if you assume you can somehow work a logistical miracle and actually deliver the diesel fuel to the backup generators on time (which you probably can't). The problem is this: Where do you get diesel fuel? Why refineries will be shut down, too From petroleum refineries. Most people don't realize it, but petroleum refineries run on electricity. Without the power grid, the refineries don't produce a drop of diesel. With no diesel, there are no generators keeping the coolant running in the nuclear power facilities. But wait, you say: Maybe we could just acquire diesel from all the gas stations in the world. Pump it out of the ground, load it into trucks and use that to power the generators, right? Except there are other problems here: How do you pump all that fuel without electricity? How do you acquire all the tires and spare parts needed to keep trucks running if there's no electricity to keep the supply businesses running? How do you maintain a truck delivery infrastructure when the electrical infrastructure is totally wiped out? Some countries might be able to pull it off with some degree of success. With military escorts and the total government control over all fuel supplies, a few nations will be able to keep a few nuclear power facilities from melting down. But here's the real issue: There are 700 nuclear power facilities in the world, remember? Let's suppose that in the aftermath of a massive solar flare, the nations of the world are somehow able to control half of those facilities and nurse them into cold shutdown status. That still leaves roughly 350 nuclear facilities at risk. Now let's suppose half of those are somehow luckily offline and not even functioning when the solar flare hits, so they need no special attention. This is a very optimistic assumption, but that still leaves 175 nuclear power plants where all attempts fail. Let's be outrageously optimistic and suppose that a third of those somehow don't go into a total meltdown by some miracle of God, or some bizarre twist in the laws of physics. So we're still left with 115 </span>nuclear <span class="Underline">power </span>plants<span class="Underline"> that "</span>go Chernobyl<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">." Fukushima was one power plant. Imagine the </span><span class="Underline">devastation</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of 100+ nuclear power plants, all going into meltdown all at once across the planet. It's not the loss of electricity that's the real problem; it's the </span>global tidal wave of<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> invisible </span>radiation<span class="Underline"> that </span>blankets the planet,permeates the topsoil, irradiates everything<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that breathes </span><span class="Underline">and </span>delivers the<span class="Underline"> final </span>crushing blow to human civilization<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as we know it today. Because if you have 100 simultaneous global nuclear meltdowns, the tidal wave of radiation will make farming nearly impossible for years. That means no food production for several years in a row. And </span><span class="Underline">that</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, in turn, </span>means a<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> near-total </span>collapse of the human population<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">on our planet.</span>



=<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Neg Round 4</span>= 




==<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">OOO Stuff</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The OTHER is EVERYTHING, from organisms to the artificial, we owe ourselves to it - letting beings-be is the only moral imperative.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Introna 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (LUCAS, PROFESSOR OF ORGANIZATION, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICS @ LANCASTER UNIVERSITY, AI & SOC, 2010, VOL. 25, “THE ‘MEASURE OF A MAN’ AND THE ETHOS OF HOSPITALITY: TOWARDS AN ETHICAL DWELLING WITH TECHNOLOGY,” PG. 93-102)</span>
Instead of creating value systems <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">………………….</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Is such a community possible?</span>




**If they try to make a net benefit argument, they link**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bryant</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Professor of Philosophy at Collin College </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2011</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Levi Democracy of Objects http://quod.lib.umich.edu/o/ohp/9750134.0001.001/1:10/--democracy-of-objects?rgn=div1;view=fulltext</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The foregoing chapters and ……………………………..</span> primary substances.

**Their dehumanization arguments are a link.**

**Deckha 2k10**

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Maneesha “It’s time to abandon the idea of human rights”, The Scavenger, dec 10, BATMAN</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Time for a new discourse ……………………..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for “subhuman” humans</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

**Their focus on liberation requires re-affirmation of a distinction between “human” and “animal” – re-entrenches specieism**
**Kim**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, UC Irvine political science professor, </span>**2009**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Claire, “Slaying the Beast: Reflections on Race, Culture, and Species”, http://aapf.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/05/kalfou.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Dysongives a ………….</span><span class="Underline-Highlighted-WFU">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> and our actions</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

**For the aff, our relations to the world are intermediated through fields of knowledge which we receive through educational institutions. This perspective is profoundly anthropocentric - the 1AC sees the world as a blank screen for us to write upon**
**Bryant ’12** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Levi Bryant, teaches philosophy at Collin College, "RSI, Discursivity, Critique, and Politics," Larval Subjects, 7/18/2012, </span><span class="wikiexternallink"><span class="wikigeneratedlinkcontent">[[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/07/18/rsi-discursivity-critique-and-politics/|__http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/07/18/rsi-discursivity-critique-and-politics/__]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)BATMAN</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> So in response …………………… throughout populations).</span>



**Speciesism makes possible “systematic beastilization” which justifies non-criminal putting to death of the other—root cause of all oppression**
**Rossini 6**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, postdoctoral Fellow ASCA, (Manuela, “To the Dogs: Companion speciesism and the new feminist materialism”, text and image Volume 3, September, [[http://intertheory.org/rossini]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">What is equally sobering, ……………..</span> __disproportionate effects on animals__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>



**Thus the alternative, taken from //The Answer// by Robinson Jeffers:**
**Then what is the answer? Not to be deluded by dreams.**

**To know that great civilisations have broken down into violence,**

**and their tyrants come, many times before.**

**When open violence appears, to avoid it with honor or choose**

**the least ugly faction; these evils are essential.**

**To keep one’s own integrity, be merciful and uncorrupted**

**and not wish for evil; and not be duped**

**By dreams of universal justice or happiness. These dreams will**

**not be fulfilled.**

**To know this, and know that however ugly the parts appear**

**the whole remains beautiful. A severed hand**

**Is an ugly thing and man dissevered from the earth and stars**

**and his history … for contemplation or in fact …**

**Often appears atrociously ugly. Integrity is wholeness,**

**the greatest beauty is**

**Organic wholeness, the wholeness of life and things, the divine beauty**

**of the universe. Love that, not man**

**Apart from that, or else you will share man’s pitiful confusions,**

**or drown in despair when his days darken.**

**This is The Dark Mountain in 2k9**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Uncivilization, The Dark Mountain Manifesto, [[http://dark-mountain.net/about/manifesto/]], 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Against the civilising project, which has ……… challenge for writing — for art — to meet. This is what we are here for.</span>


**all** **forms of exclusion are patterned off the human/non-human divide- de-normalizing the anthropocentric order is critical to challenging the endless war on difference**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kochi, 2K9 </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Tarik, Sussex law school, Species war: Law, Violence and Animals, Law Culture and Humanities Oct 5.3)//RSW//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This reflection need ,…………….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of war’s norm-alization.</span>//

//**Two implications – First, you should presume negative – their value system is inherently relational – this collapses in upon itself.**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Henning 09</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Brian; Associate Professor of Philosophy at Gonzaga University; “Trusting in the 'Efficacy of Beauty: A Kalocentric Approach to Moral Philosophy”; Ethics & the Environment- Volume 14, Number 1)</span>//RSW

//Final truths//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (whether in religion………………………..</span> //with every form of existence.//


**A) The action of voting negative is ontologically leveling and a prior question to the substance of the 1ac.**
**Shaw et. Al., 13** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">- Katharine Meehan, Department of Geography, University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-1251, USA, Ian Graham Ronald Shaw, School of Geographical and Earth Sciences, The University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, Scotland, UK, Sallie A. Marston, School of Geography and Development, University of Arizona, Tucson AZ 85721, USA, “Political geographies of the object,” Political Geography, Volume 33, March 2013, Pages 1–10) BATMAN</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We therefore offer </span>a <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…………………..</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> because all the pieces matter.</span>



=<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Neg Round 5</span>= 


==1NC - CIR== 



**Immigration will pass-Overcomes ALL your warrants**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Huetteman and Parker, 4/25</span>** [Emmarie and Ashley, “House Panel Set to Offer Several Immigration Bills,” </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/26/us/politics/house-panel-says-it-will-offer-series-of-immigration-bills.html?_r=0&pagewanted=print]],<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ALB]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>House<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Judiciary Committee ……………</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> group, said on Wednesday.</span>



**Tha plan is unpopular**

**Hurst, 12**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Nathan, CQ Roll Call Staff, “Lack of Incentives Forces Lobbyists to Change Tack,”http://www.rollcall.com/features/Outlook_June/outlook/-215179-1.html, ALB]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When Congress last ………………. a serious case for fiscal austerity.</span>





**PC key**

Jonathan <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bernstein 1-28</span>, Assistant <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Prof</span>essor <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">of Poli</span>tical <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sci</span>ence at UTSA, 1/28/13, “On immigration, Obama should opt for a persuasive vagueness,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/wp/2013/01/28/on-immigration-obama-should-opt-for-a-persuasive-vagueness/

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Ezra </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Klein made ……………………</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Parts of the bureaucracy?). </span>



**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Reform solves nurse shortage.</span>**

Hanlon Law Group<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>2012<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Nursing Shortage Should Be Top Priority in Health Care and Immigration Reform p. www.visaandgreencard.com/CM/Articles/Nursing-Shortage.asp</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As policymakers</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, special ………………………………</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to enter the country</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">That’s key to bioterrorism preparedness </span>**

Oncology Times<span style="font-size: 8px;">, 7-10-</span>2007<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Reps. Capps, LaTourette Call for Increased Funding of Nurse Education Programs, Volume 29, Issue 13, p. http://journals.lww.com/oncology-times/Fulltext/2007/07100/Eye_on_Washington.4.aspx</span>

Nurses<span style="font-size: 8px;"> also </span>are ………………………….<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;"> preparedness efforts</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>





<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Brink is now </span>**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Gerstein 10 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">(Dr. Daniel M. Gerstein is a Strategist and Policy Expert with significant operational experience. He has written extensively about national security, “Age of Biotechnology” JFQ / issue 57, 2d quarter 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/gerstein.pdf]]</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">, ken)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">The Commission believes that </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">………………………….</span><span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;"> antibiotics, and nucleic acid synthesis.16 </span>





**Extinction and o/w nuclear war**

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Clifford </span><span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Singer</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Spring </span><span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">In recent years the fear of the ……………………………….. and if this is achieved.</span>



==1NC T- Military== 



**Next off, __the aff’s not topical__ – The Affirmative spends money on the military, this is distinct from infrastructure**

**NII Act, 7** (National Infrastructure Improvement Act, S. 775, this bill did not pass, proquest Congressional)//DH



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> This Act may be ……………..waste disposal facility.</span>





==1NC Security K== 





**Their security discourse is epistemologically flawed and replicates global power imbalances.**

**Zenko and Cohen 12**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – Micah Zenko, Douglas Dillon fellow in the Center for Preventive Action (CPA) at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), worked for five years at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, and in Washington, DC, at the Brookings Institution, Congressional Research Service, and State Department's Office of Policy Planning, and Michael A. Cohen, Fellow at the Century Foundation, “Clear and Present Safety,” www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137279/micah-zenko-and-michael-a-cohen/clear-and-present-safety?page=show)//BATMAN</span>

Within the foreign <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…………………</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> over expensive military buildups.</span>




**That approach to global problems sanitizes structural violence and risks extinction.**

**Ahmed 12**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Dr. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed is Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Research and Development (IPRD), an independent think tank focused on the study of violent conflict, he has taught at the Department of International Relations, University of Sussex "The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society" Global Change, Peace & Security Volume 23, Issue 3, 2011 Taylor Francis</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">3. From securitisation to militarisation 3.1 Complicity</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">This analysis thus calls for …………………………….</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> various forms of violence.</span>






**The alt is to interrogate the epistemological failures of the 1ac---this is a prereq to successful policy**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ahmed 12</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Dr. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed is Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Research and Development (IPRD), an independent think tank focused on the study of violent conflict, he has taught at the Department of International Relations, University of Sussex "The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society" Global Change, Peace & Security Volume 23, Issue 3, 2011 Taylor Francis</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">While </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">recommendations ,…………………………….</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> on these issues.</span>



==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1nc QDR cp </span>== 



**The United States Secretary of Defense should include a recommendation in the Quadrennial Defense Review that investment in transportation infrastructure in and around United States military ocean terminals including railways to and from its military ocean terminals should be increased.**



**Infrastructure recommendations can be established through the QDR**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Eaglen and Spring 9 </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Baker Spring is F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy and Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Quadrennial Defense Review: Building Blocks for National Defense, 1/28/9, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/01/quadrennial-defense-review-building-blocks-for-national-defense</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To meet U.S. ……………………..</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> and Navy ships and aircraft.</span>



**The QDR solves – describes development of the military and solves signaling arguments**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Heidel 5</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Andrew, School of Public Policy, University of Maryland, U.S. Nuclear Force Levels: Using QDR Goals to Maximize U.S. Security, May 2005, http://web.archive.org/web/20060911152248/http:/www.publicpolicy.umd.edu/Fetter/students/Heidel.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Augmenting a ……………………</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> to a smaller nuclear force.</span>



**The QDR can link strategy to procurement – provides political cover for Obama**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Arkedis 9</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Jim, Progressive Policy Institute, Just wait until next year..., 3/16/9, http://the-reaction.blogspot.com/2009/03/just-wait-until-next-year.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There's a ton of ………………… execution to procurement</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>



**QDR gets implemented – 2006 proves**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Patterson and Richoux 8 </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">P. Dean and Lenny, Lt. Col. USMC and USAF, RETHINKING THE QDR: THE CASE FOR A PERSISTENT DEFENSE REVIEW, May 2008, http://dtlweb.au.af.mil///exlibris/dtl/d3_1/apache_media/L2V4bGlicmlzL2R0bC9kM18xL2FwYWNoZV9tZWRpYS8zMTM3Ng==.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">In spite of stagnant ………………….</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> annual PPBE process</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">round 6 new aff</span>= 


==The Other LA== 





**Part one is the Other Los Angeles…**



**…The Los Angeles that takes the bus – the Los Angeles that’s infrastructure investment is neglected in favor of freeway construction, while ensuring its residents cannot afford a car to drive on the freeway…**



**The car culture of Los Angeles is not new and it is certainly not accidental. Public transportation represents the epitome of exclusion and containment, of urban and anti-urban. The historicity of Los Angeles public transit reveals its //__critical affluence__// in marking certain racialized and gendered bodies as visible or invisible, as worthy of public space or not.** 

**Hutchinson, 2k**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">-writer who teaches in the sociology department at Seattle University[Sikivu, “Waiting for the Bus,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Social Text </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">18.2 (2000), 107-120, ALB]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">African Americans contributed to the ……………………… gas and wipe that tear away</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">." </span>





**creates a cognitive bias that makes systemic violence invisible and devalues the life of those not in decisionmaking circles.**

**Mignolo****‘7**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Walter, argentinian semiotician and prof at Duke, “The De-Colonial Option and the Meaning of Identity in Politics” online)</span>

__The **rhetoric of modernity** ………………__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> is, </span>__according to a racist classificatio____n__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.5</span>



==Bus Poet== 



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Part 2 is the Bus Poet of Los Angelas** </span>

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Marisela Norte reflects in 2003</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">-[“Best MTA Bus Line: The Number 18, yes, let's take a trip down Whittier Boulevard,” //American Quarterly// 56.3 (2004) 506-510, ALB]</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">So Moms, lemme ask you…………………………… </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Me </span>drive? I don't think so.



**The experience of the bus as reflected by Notre’s poetry indicates the status of non normative populations in Los Angeles-And the potential for the value of invisible bodies to be intrinsically noticed, rather than calculated.** 

**Lipsitz 2k4**

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[George, American Studies scholar , Also Professor in the Department of Black Studies at UC Santa Barbara, “Learning from Los Angeles: Another One Rides the Bus,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">American Quarterly </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">56.3, September, pp. 511-529]</span>

Many <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">people</span> think of …………………………….__“that **it’s all good**.”__



**As residents who grew up embedded in the car culture of Los Angeles, we were awakened to the reality of the Los Angeles transport system, in part by Norte’s poetry.** 



**__Ken’s reaction__ to Norte’s works reminds of a time when he too took the bus. Here’s a quick recollection of his experience:**



One Saturday before I had a car, I met my friend Carson with no plans for the day – maybe we’d stay home, or go for a walk. Or maybe I would meet my friend Emily who lives East of here; assuming she called and gave me her address. In the mean time, Carson suggested riding the bus. I was like… “Who takes the bus?”… I guess I do now.

2 things stuck from that experience: everyone looked exhausted, and we passed a bus stop that had chairs without bottoms. Seriously? Someone should fix that.

Anyways, the bus randomly stopped service for the day and I’m forced off on Moorpark and Colfax. How the hell am I gunna get to Emily’s?!

Ironically, I ended up being a 3 minute walk from her house. The journey kind of became the destination. 





**We are resolved that the United States federal government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States. We think that investment should be informed by our methodology. And in this particular instance, we don't need to simulate that policy to know that it was a good idea. Our affirmation is based on our own psychic experience with the built environment, not the outcome of that action. Ken’s story about the bus seats implies a desire – someone should fix the bus seats – but not one that can be encompassed by an instrumental plan text that would reduce his advocacy, informed by his experience, to a tool of utility. Even though no one ever listens to anything that happens in a policy debate, coming up with our own opinions about what the government should do provokes notice of the totality of lived experience and surfaces our repressed desires of a more authentic nature. The role of the ballot thus is to determine whether or not the 1ac confronts how transportation infrastructure investment makes populations invisible through a topical affirmation of the resolution.**



==Situation== 



**Part 3 is the situation** 

**Norte’s reflection of the bus and our chaotic encounter with //another Los Angeles// aren’t just random notes, they are personal experiences indicative of our social location and a desire transgress the fragmentation of certain locations. Thus, we turn to Situationist psychogeography. This method- which starts from an awareness of the conditions of one’s daily life through a divided Los Angeles, based on a nonlinear, non-ideologically informed epistemology-Is key to transform public space.** 

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Plant 2k2</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Sadie, PhD, Lecturer in Cultural Studies at the University of Birmingham. “The most radical gesture: The Situationist International in a postmodern age” Taylor & Francis e-Library,http://monoskop.org/images/2/24/Plant_Sadie_The_Most_Radical_Gesture_The_Situationist_International_in_a_Postmodern_Age.pdf, ken)</span>

__The situationists' desire to become ………………………..**, fragmentation, and privatization**__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>**









**This method applies to the bus and to Los Angeles -To ride is to know invisible populations in a way that utilitarian modes of transportation planning don’t allow**

**Hutchinson, 2k**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">-writer who teaches in the sociology department at Seattle University[Sikivu, “Waiting for the Bus,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Social Text </span>//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">18.2 (2000), 107-120, ALB]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If</span> riding a bus in Los <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…………………..</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> possibilities, traffic, false moves to the curb to check the street.</span>



**Utilitarian organization creates both material __and psychic divisions__ __within__ representations of __society__ – this not only celebrates violence towards invisible bodies, but also __indiscriminately subjugates all human experience__** 

**Debord 67** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Guy Ernest Debord was a French Marxist theorist, writer, filmmaker, member of the Letterist International, founder of a Letterist faction, and founding member of the Situationist International.“Society of the Spectacle” Transcription/HTML Markup: Greg Adargo. [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/debord/society.htm]], ken) **We do not endorse the gendered language said in context in this card, **gender modified</span>

In societies where modern <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…………………..</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">to such a degree of accumulation that it becomes an image. </span>



Fortunately, psychogeography examines objective consciousness about public space – and reconstructs it as a terrain of passion. 

Wood 2k11-<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Denis holds a PhD in geography from Clark University, “Lynch Debord: About Two Psychogeographies” </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://go.owu.edu/~jbkrygie/krygier_html/geog_222/geog_222_lo/Lynch_Debord_Carto.45.3.003.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, ken) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">As I say, there were two of these. The first………………………….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> **urban consciousness**.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">21 </span>



**This constitutes a narration of the nation; exposing the cultural plasticity of transportation infrastructure and surfacing the expressions of how it is experienced interpolates societal participation.** 

**Neidich 8** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Warren, interdisciplinary artist whose work transcends aesthetic theory and engages outside fields such as sociology, politics, and cognitive neuroscience. “The Artist Residency in the 21st Century: Experiments in Cultural Potentiality and Contamination” [[http://www.warrenneidich.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/Neidich_Experiments-in-Cultural-Potentiality.pdf]], ken)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Is the question that Deleuze and Guittari ……………………….. in our discussion of cosmopolitanism. </span>









**We should think of transportation infrastructure as a a process of making relations between bodies and things. Transportation infrastructure provides a site to question the way people at the margins of society live, dream and desire.** 

Nikhil **Anand**, professor of anthropology at Haverford, 20**12** ("Infrastructure: Commentary from Nikhil Anand, Johnathan Bach, Julia Elyachar, and Daniel Mains." Curated Collections, Cultural Anthropology Online, November 26 ***

[http://production.culanth.org/curated_collections/11-infrastructure/discussions/6-infrastructure-commentary-from-nikhil-anand-johnathan-bach-julia-elyachar-and-daniel-mains]



*****This was an interview with multiple scholars. Each scholar answered the same questions. We only included the responses from Anand to save space. This is the full text of his entire interview. If you want to see the full text with the responses from the other scholars we will provide it.]**



**__Do you see an “anthropology of infrastructure” as a fruitful new area of inquiry__**__?__ 

Nikhil Anand: __Yes__, I have been very excited by the proliferation of interest in the anthropology of infrastructure! __As materialized articulations of imagination, ideology and social life, **infrastructures**__**-** __here I’m thinking particularly o__f electricity networks, **__roads__**, water supply systems, oil pipelines, ports and highways- __provide an extremely **generative site to investigate questions** that have long been of interest to anthropologists such as__ the production and maintenance of political authority and __the ways in which **people imagine and ascribe meaning in their world**__**s**. I do think we need to pay closer attention to how infrastructures are made to work as political technologies of rule. After all, it is through the extension and regulation of physical and social infrastructures that biopolitics often works. __Infrastructures are also compelling sites to study aspiration, in both senses of the word. They are material networks that allow us to **live, to dream and to desire**.__ They also draw resources across distances great and small- proliferating both circulations and inequalities as they make things move.

**__How did you first become interested in the infrastructures you analyze__** in this article, and will your future work continue to examine infrastructures?

Nikhil Anand: __Infrastructure appeared in a couple of ways when I was conducting fieldwork__. When I initiated this research project on Mumbai’s water supply network, I was interested in getting past normative distinctions between the public and private sector to explore how Mumbai’s municipal water system was made to work through the everyday practices of city engineers and other social actors. I had a sense that "the public system" involved several "exceptional" social relations and accommodations that were left out in debates about privatization. While this was indeed the case, I was surprised by the ways in which the materiality of the water system also mattered. Administrators and policy officials planning a transition to a privatized distribution system were constantly challenged in their efforts not only by the politics but also by the materiality of the city’s water system. In fact, as Susan Leigh Star has argued, the material technologies of the system are invested with a politics that is difficult to change from "above" once it has been installed. Further, that much of the system existed under the surface of the city also troubled engineers in their efforts to govern the system. They had a difficult time repairing leaks, cutting illegal connections and upgrading the network, in part because their systems of representation- their maps, pressure monitors, etc. were not up to the task. **__Much like in the United States__**__, **infrastructure** is also something that **matters in** Mumbai’s **public sphere**- its news articles and urban debates. Federal, state and municipal governments have identified infrastructure to be a critical area of state intervention, and have been busy unrolling ambitious plans to construct highways, piped water networks and electricity plants in an effort to make Indian cities (and the nation) "world class__." These new projects imagine and seek to produce new kinds of modern, liberal, "developed" urban and national bodies. __Infrastructure projects were also of tremendous interest to urban residents, **particularly those living at the margins**.__ On one hand, settlers and other marginal populations are frequently displaced by large road and rail projects. On the other, they make important claims for infrastructure, to access reliable water and electricity services. After the decline of class and rights based politics in the city, settlers evaluate and re-elect political leaders based on their ability to provide urban infrastructure- water, hospitals, schools. Therefore elections in the city are full of promises that pipes, roads and other infrastructure services (such as gutters and trash collection), will ‘come’ to the city’s settlements. And they quite often do- built figuratively and literally on top of the partially realized promises of the previous election cycle. Having been so stimulated thinking about infrastructure, I hope to continue doing so! My next project is looking at the infrastructures of sewage. By delving deep (ugh) into the life of city sewers, I am exploring the work of disinterest and disgust in social life.

**__How can we begin to theorize infrastructure__**?

Nikhil Anand: __I__ __have found it helpful to think about infrastructure as **a social-material assemblage**; **a process of making relations between bodies and things** that is always in formation and always coming apart__. Thinking about infrastructure as a process enables us to better theorize how our simultaneously social and natural worlds are constantly being made. For instance, in thinking through how Mumbai’s water infrastructure is constantly being created and claimed through everyday practice, __I explored how the system managed the production of differentiated citizens__, some of whom were required to constantly renew their material and political connections every few years. __Therefore by attending to the everyday life of infrastructure in this way, it is possible to theorize how infrastructure mediates both the formation and management of subjectified and restless bodies__, and the particular figurations of natureculture they draw on to make people live.

I think it is important to remember that __while infrastructures do matter, by no means do they encompass or saturate either how people live in the world or the meanings they make in it. That is to say while infrastructural assemblages are materialized formations of ideology, nature and rule, they are also precarious, and constantly subject to human ideation and intervention that trouble their designs__. Conversely, infrastructures are also more than human creations, and as such, their technonatures often trouble political projects. As the Deepwater Horizon disaster, or the one at Fukushima suggest, infrastructures are unstable arrangements of people and things that easily and frequently escape social and political control.

**__Do you have some suggestions of additional scholarship that could be of use to__** __scholars and **students wishing to make infrastructure an object of study**__?

Nikhil Anand: __There is a wonderful and stimulating new literature in anthropology around infrastructure__, including the articles that you have assembled in this issue. __I am currently working on an article on the anthropology of infrastructure with three other__ wonderful __colleague__s who have informed my thinking on the subject- Hannah Appel, Jessica Barnes and Ashley Carse. In addition, I have found the work of Stephen Collier, Julia Elyachar,Penelope Harvey, Caroline Humphrey, Brian Larkin, Antina von Schnitzler and AbdouMaliq Simone very generative. Of course, __there is now a very well developed tradition that explores infrastructure at the intersections of geography and science studies__. Geographers like Matthew __Gandy__, Karen __Bakker__, Colin McFarlane __and__ Stephen __Graham have drawn our attention to__ __the ways in which urban infrastructures produce divided citie____s__. I have enjoyed learning from the work of Andrew Barry, Bruce Braun, Sarah Whatmore and Jane Bennett, who have taken up a very helpful set of interventions from __scholars in science studies like__ Isabelle __Stengers__, Susan Leigh __Star and__ John __Law to explore the relation between knowledge, science and materiality through critical social scientific research__.

__Did your position as an ethnographer allow you to investigate multiple sides (design, engineering, use by different groups, regulation of access) of the infrastructures you present__? Does the study of infrastructure allow for polyvocality in ethnography?

Nikhil Anand: Yes, like all good ethnographic research objects__, **the study of infrastructure almost requires a polyvocality**__. In retrospect, this was partly why I found the water system so interesting__. I could__ learn about how the system worked by **__conside__**__r__ing **__the political claims made by marginalized groups together with the designs__** __and the work **of** the city’s municipal **engineers**, and the many other actors__ (like plumbers and social workers) __who mediated relationships between the government and the governed. Diverse social groups had passionate, yet diverging ideas about both what the public system was, and what it should be. By describing the everyday way in which they demanded, managed and claimed water from city pipes, the study points to how the cacophonous, vibrant, dynamic and unequal city__ of __Mumbai is made through its infrastructure projects__. Hopefully this will make the book more enjoyable (and not more confusing) to read!