[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==Reparations Aff== 
Plan Text:
As a form of reparations Andrew and I advocate that: the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for uncompensated railroad infrastructure labor in the United States.

The current governance framework is structured by the white male power base that ignores outside voices – false objectivity causes the worst forms of subjective policy-making and -researching.
Shaw ‘4 [Jan. - Feb, 2004, Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, pp. 56-79]
The methods and theoretical frameworks that dominate current policy analysis have been developed and implemented
AND
tied to prevailing relations of power" (1997a, p. 3).

Railroad slavery converted men, women, and children into capital goods worthy only as tools. Horrific atrocities left out of our school curriculum were commonplace as slaves were regarded as not only subhuman, but not human, bred for the daily slaughter of constructing and maintaining rail lines and ties. It is a national responsibility that the government invest in reparations to pay for these crimes.
Kornweibel, ‘7 [Apr 17, 2007, Theodore Kornweibel, Jr; Professor, Emeritus, Department of Africana Studies, San Diego State University; “REPARATIONS AND RAILROADS”; http://tjlr.fatcow.com/Construction/Archive/29-2/Kornweibel.pdf]
The failure of Congress to even study the possibility of reparations led, I believe
AND
ancestors, should not the descendants of individual slave owners similarly be liable?

Black life is devoid of hope and meaning because of past injustices – the formal organs of government cemented slavery in our social and political institutions.
Foster, ‘4 [May, 2004; Gearld A Foster; ; Web Editor: Vernellia R. Randall, Professor of Law, The University of Dayton; 2 Cardozo Public Law, Policy and Ethics Journal 401- 420 (May, 2004); “American Slavery: the Complete Story”; http://academic.udayton.edu/race/02rights/slavery06a.htm]
Nihilism is not new in black America. The first African encounter with the New
AND
state and federal government would cement in law for the century that followed."

We control terminal impact uniqueness – slavery ended the world centuries ago – our task is to reclaim that world.
Omolade, ‘84 [Summer 1984, Barbara- City College Center for Worker Education in New York City a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, p. 12; http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]
In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
AND
cultural integrity, and nuclear arsenals and housing? Who will stand up?

Slavery is ingrained in habit – the US has made an art form of grinding its past deeds into mere ephemera – reparations is not just charity – the wait has been too long.
Robinson, ‘2000 [2000; Randall Robinson; Penn St. Dickinson School of Law, Distinguished Scholar in Residence, internationally acclaimed author and founder of TransAfrica and the Free South Africa Movement. He is the recipient of numerous humanitarian awards from organizations that include the Congressional Black Caucus, UNICEF, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and The King Center; “The Debt: What America Owes to Blacks”]
Our lives—all of our lives, all races, all classes—have
AND
heirs. Tall again, as they had been long, long ago.

The federal government is ultimately responsible – it created the legal parameters for railroad corporations to hire slaves – similarly, whites must bear the burden of the crimes carried out by the government because of their accumulated advantages at the expense of others – reparations will transform the racial dynamic by moving from government “handouts” to “paybacks”, eliminating structural deficits that separate whites and blacks into separate and unequal universes.
Marable, ‘2 [November 11, 2002; Manning Marable, Professor of History and Political Science, Director of the Institute for Research in African-American Studies at Columbia University, co-founder of the Black Radical Congress, a national network of African-American activists; “In Defense of Black Reparations”; http://www.zcommunications.org/in-defense-of-black-reparations-by-manning-marable]
The black conservatives' criticisms and complaints can easily be addressed. First, there is
AND
renegotiate debt and to demand compensation for slavery, colonialism, and apartheid.

Reparations may be unlikely, but the time will come when blacks can be paid in full outside of this debate round. When that day comes, we will be ready.
Lyons, ‘4 [2004; David Lyons, Professor of Law & Law Alumni Scholar; Professor of Philosophy, Boston University; Volume 24 Issue 1 Healing the Wounds of Slavery: Can Present Legal Remedies Cure Past Wrongs?; “Reparations and Equal Opportunity” http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1113&context=twlj]
In one respect, the rectification project I have described may be regarded as utopian
AND
an irate, tireless minority keen to set brushfires in people's minds."24
=Round 2= 
==T Bikes== 
Transportation infrastructure must be a fixed asset for transportation goods and people – Bike paths aren’t included.
Keever and Orr ‘8 [2008, Gregory Keever is a California admitted attorney in private practice. He has experience in private revenue bonds, foreign infrastructure planning with governmental participation in managed economies, and extensive corporate and joint venture experience, including joint ventures between foreign governmental agencies and private firms. Ryan J. Orr is executive director at the Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects and teaches Global Project Finance to engineering, law school and MBA students. “Enabling User-Fee Backed Transportation Finance in California” Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects, [[http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers%20/Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf|http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers /Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf]]]
In arriving at these conclusions, this paper examines data from recognized think tanks,
AND
, the Treasurer’s Office, the Governor’s office, and taxpayers and users.

Bike paths aren’t transportation infrastructure – prefer our most qualified evidence.
Mary Peters, ‘7 (U.S. Secretary of Transportation), PBS NEWSHOUR, Aug. 15, 2007. Retrieved Mar. 8, 2012 from [[http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/transportation/july-dec07/infrastructure_08-15.html]].
There's about probably AND
. Some of that money is being spent on things, as I said earlier, like bike paths or trails.

==Afropessimism K (2NR)== 
White supremacy is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.
Mills ‘97 [1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]
White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it
AND
talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

The only ethical option is to call for an end to the world—calling attention to the antagonism that undergirds the US is the only way to address the conflicts within it like the 1AC
Wilderson, ’10 [2010, Frank B. Wilderson is an Associate Professor of African-American Studies at UC Irvine and has a Ph.D. from UC Berkeley, “Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms,”]
Leaving aside for the moment their state of mind, it would seem that the
AND
foundation of the close reading of feature films and political theory that follows.

Try or Die – Isolation of racially oppressed groups leads to the TERMINATION OF HUMANITY.
Marable Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies 1984
Manning-Professor of History @ Columbia University; “Speaking Truth to Power: Essays on Race, Resistance and Radicalism; p. 198-199.
Black Americans also comprehend that peace is not the absence of conflict. As long
AND
the electoral mainstream, the results may be the termination of humanity itself.

Voting negative has revolutionary potential
Wilderson, ’10 [2010, Frank B. Wilderson is an Associate Professor of African-American Studies at UC Irvine and has a Ph.D. from UC Berkeley, “Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms,”]

STRANGE AS it might seem, this book project began in South Africa. During
AND
, Andile Mngxitama, Prishani Naidoo, John Shai, and S'bu Zulu.

==Reverse Framework== 
A. Interpretation – The affirmative obligation in the debate needs to be a dis-identification of the United States federal government.

B. Violation – The affirmative endorses state action as a remedy to solve sustainability, consumption, and anthropocentrism. They are rhetorically silent on the racialized state of debate and validate the sanctity of the federal government through the reading of a plan text.
White debaters must find ways to SPEAK ABOUT RACE or else they REPRODUCE OPPRESSION.
Dr. Crenshaw ‘97 Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.
Another difficulty related to talking about race is what Alcoff has called "the problem
AND
and political work of resisting racism is left solely to people of color.

C. Standards –

a. Engaging in switch side debate bad – Divorcing a debater’s conviction from their content is a poor model of debate which leaves individuals disengaged and distant from the ethical consequences of their advocacy.
Greene and Hicks 2005 (Ronald Walter and Darrin; debate legends, LOST CONVICTIONS
Debating both sides and the ethical self-fashioning of liberal citizens, Cultural Studies Vol. 19, No. 1 January 2005)

Murphy’s case against the ethics of debating both sides rested on what he thought to
AND
would be seen as a game of power rather than the method of democracy

b. Roleplaying as the United States federal government divorces us from our agency.
An affirmation of the USFG is a privileged narcissism that abdicates political responsibility in favor of political apathy.
Dr. Crenshaw ‘97 Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.

Another difficulty related to talking about race is what Alcoff has called "the problem
AND
and political work of resisting racism is left solely to people of color.

c. Impact – They make debate useless as a tool for liberation by emphasizing monocultural standards. DEBATE either gets on board with an approach that recognizes the pluralistic nature of its community or risk EXTINCTION of its relevance.
Valdivia-Sutherland ‘98 Prof and Director of Forensics @Butte Community College 1998
Cynthia-Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs; National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22; [[http://www.phirhopi.org/phi-rho-pi/spts/spkrpts05.2/sutherland.htm]], A Multicultural Communicative Style
Although the foundation of forensics events may have been grounded in the ancient rhetoric of
AND
, and for us. Now, let the celebration of differences begin!

==Consumption Advantage Turns (2NR)== 
To connect specieism to racism is repugnant – their Singer evidence links when it says “Like racists and sexists, speciesists say that the boundary of their own group is also a boundary that marks off the most valuable beings from all the rest” – humans are separate from and morally superior to nonhumans – to insist otherwise makes fighting oppression impossible.
Cohen, ’86 [1986,Carl, Professor of Medicine @ UMich, The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research," The New England Journal of Medicine 314, 865-869 [[http://www.rw.ttu.edu/6002%20ethics/pdf/Cohen.pdf]]]
This argument is worse than unsound; it is atrocious. It draws an offensive
AND
is a pig is a dog is a boy. They're all mammals.")

EVEN IF they win that specieism is bad, the Affirmative’s solution is racist and fails at coalition building.
Hamanaka and Basile, ‘5 [June/July, 2005, Sheila Hamanaka has studied anti-racism with The People’s Institute and is a member of the Justice and Unity Campaign of WBAI, Tracy Basile is a freelance journalist, The People’s Institute, “Racism and the Animal Rights Movement” http://www.satyamag.com/jun05/hamanaka.html]
“Racism = Racial Prejudice + Power” — The People’s Institute Given the sheer
AND
Any organization that is not intentionally anti-racist inevitably benefits white people.

Discussion of environmental problems that ignore the disproportionate effects on minorities establish privilege, marginalize minorities, and doom effective environmental strategies
Tim Wise April 13th 2011 Tim Wise and White Privilege [[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]] [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political dear nidhi you are ;a cool cat and this candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But as troubling as colorblindness can be when evinced by liberals, colormuteness may be
AND
color and their concerns, but is to weaken the fight for survival.


=Round 3= 
Same Aff as Round 1 with new plan text and added the memmi card

Andrew and I advocate that: the United States federal government should substantially increase its uncompensated railroad infrastructure labor reparations investment in the United States.

Racism must be rejected in every instance
Memmi ’00 [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

=Round 4= 
==Afropessimism (2NR)== 
1NC

The 1AC’s demand for legal relief is the perfection of the slave as a slave—when the slave bows down to its master ie when the affirmative calls for federal equality in transportation it ties its freedom to hopeless legal relief—after emancipation and legal equality, the slave is truly perfect, shackled by the chains of its dependence for the master to be its liberator. Relief is only possible via the master and can only be granted by the United States as a gift upon the slave—the fact of need itself means that the request will fail. The demand for equality becomes the point at which the slave expresses its fidelity and accepts it role as depending on the master
Farley 5 [Boston College (Anthony, “Perfecting Slavery”, [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp]])]
Slavery is with us still. We are haunted by slavery. We are animated
AND
beyond the veil, beyond death; hence, the end of forever.

We are SHATTERED, fragments of slavery, striving for a lost union and continually bursting apart with no flag on our undiscovered country due to the original accumulation of capital which in our refusal to remember creates a mode of repetition we call race. The modern world created by MURDERS has SHATTERED lives blood is money, money is capital, capital is nation and Nation is disguised in the phrase WE THE PEOPLE striving for a more perfect union, white people striving for the perfection of humanity, white or nothing as countless people of color ripen and fall, cease, season after season like falling leaves. Life becomes a commodity and the shattered fragments are pieced together in the form of its shattered parts, a RECONSTRUCTION, a world-destroying force, a puzzle that cannot be completed, the world shattering force of the original accumulation creating the grave we are already in, with all the eternity of the Middle Passage, the Black Atlantic, repetitions of the force that OPPOSED and SHATTERED, repetitions of the TOTAL EXTINCTION event at the beginning of what is modern. The invisible hand of the market and the SHATTERING force of race-making genocide WERE and ARE one and the same the continuity of DEATH and DEATH only.
Farley, ’10 [2010, James Campbell Farley is a Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence Albany Law School, Anthony Paul Farley, “SHATTERED: Afterword for Defining Race, A Joint Symposium of The Albany Law Review and the Albany Journal of Science and Technology”; Albany Law Review,, Vo. 72:1053]
What happened shattered whatever it was that we once were. Slavery happened. We
AND
death, and that continually. She comes in colors, like November.

THEIR SILENCE ON ISSUES OF PRIVELEGE IS NOT white debaters must find ways to SPEAK ABOUT RACE or else they REPRODUCE OPPRESSION.
Dr. Crenshaw ‘97 Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.
Another difficulty related to talking about race is what Alcoff has called "the problem
AND
and political work of resisting racism is left solely to people of color.

IT’S THE ALTERNATIVE AT ALL COSTS/BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY
SEEING as citizens of the undiscovered country is an invitation to another better world, memory out of repetition is making life out of death and it is possible to work through the repetitions, work through the TRAUMA of the original accumulation and even if there is a PRICE to be paid for such knowing, WHAT OF IT? We have an entire world to win and NOTHING to lose
Farley, ’10 [2010, James Campbell Farley is a Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence Albany Law School, Anthony Paul Farley, “SHATTERED: Afterword for Defining Race, A Joint Symposium of The Albany Law Review and the Albany Journal of Science and Technology”; Albany Law Review,, Vo. 72:1053]
We are citizens of the undiscovered country. It is a country we must leave
AND
, nothing to lose but scattered leaves, and it is only November.

We must burn civil society to the ground – the role of the ballot is to reject the production of slavery within debate.
Vote neg because they messed up. Burn down the 1AC – burn down all 8 minutes of it.
Burn and leave nothing white behind you. We have been trained to think in a narrative of progress that takes us up from slavery, but there is no up from slavery. From segregation to neosegregation, the end of the 1AC’s progress is only the perfection of the slave, under conditions of total freedom. It is only under conditions of freedom, of bourgeois legality, that the slave can perfect itself as a slave by freely choosing to bow down before its master and ask to be free. The slave perfects itself as a slave by offering a prayer for equal rights. The legal system becomes the plantation, and the plantation never kills itself no matter how much it is changed. We must kill it.
Farley 5 [Boston College (Anthony, “Perfecting Slavery”, [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp]])]
VII. BURN What is to be done? Two hundred years ago, when
AND
the slave must become to pursue its calling that is not a calling.


2NC

The current governance framework is structured by the white male power base that ignores outside voices – false objectivity causes the worst forms of subjective policy-making and -researching.
Shaw, ’04 [Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79]
The methods and theoretical frameworks that dominate current policy analysis have been developed and implemented
AND
tied to prevailing relations of power" (1997a, p. 3).

Objective affirmations of state depictions of the excluded are flawed
Stone-Mediatore ’10 [2010, Shari-; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45,; http://phaenex.uwindsor.ca/ojs/leddy/index.php/SSJ/article/view/2851/2371/]


For several decades now, feminist theorists have criticized modern epistemic norms, revealing male
AND
my proposal, commenting that such people are “not academically-oriented.”

It’s about whiteness—enlightenment thinking in modernist Western Culture is at the foundation of ableist discourse
Smith ‘4 [Phil, Executive Director, Vermont Developmental Disabilities Council, “Whiteness, Normal Theory, and Disability Studies”, Disability Studies Quarterly Spring 2004, Volume 24, No. 2, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/491/668]
This point, that ableism is created by those who define themselves as able-
AND
broad disability studies approach if either whiteness or ability is to be reconceptualized.

Transportation systems don’t do anything—they only appropriate individuals who are excluded to move around with infrastructure they have—it does not change peoples’ ONTOLOGICAL POSITION within society
Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4 [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]
Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned·~
AND
evidenced by the segregated housing and spatial layout of our central cities and suburbs

. It is not by chance that millions of Americans have been socially isolated and relegated to economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created.

Reformism and engagement has no critical potential – the liberal class is dead – by extolling power of the state as the agent of change fail
Reformism is not an option—the left liberal class willingly sacrifices others in the name of what is expedient and practical. By extolling the power of the state as an agent of change, the affirmative abets the cult of the self and the ascendancy of a corporate state—state should always be seen as the enemy and the destruction of genuinely radical movements has left liberals without practical ideals— leftist politics serve functions like a commercial brand, giving a different flavor, face, or spin to ruthless capitalism, national security state, globalization, and permanent war via mionr reforms like the affirmative
Hedges, ’11 [Chris Hedges, Fellow at The Nation Institute, F. Ross Johnson-Connaught Distinguished Visitor in American Studies at the Centre for the Study of the United States at The University of Toronto, long-time foreign correspondent for the New York Times where he was part of a team of reporters that won a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of the war on terrorism, recipient of the Amnesty International Global Award for Human Rights Journalism, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Colgate University and a Master of Divinity from Harvard Divinity School, 5/23/2011, “Why Liberal Sellouts Attack Prophets Like Cornel West”, [[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2011/05/23-4]]]

The capitulation of the liberal class to corporate capitalism, as [[http://www.pbs.org/arguing/nyintellectuals_howe.html|Irving Howe]] once noted
AND
state is exposed, so is the callous heart of the liberal class.



White supremacy is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.
White supremacy is the unnamed political system, however political theory has no mention of it—this omission is not accidental—white privilege is taken for granted that it isn’t seen as political and is the background against which other systems are highlighted—the 1AC works in a way to not situate a broader debate about the role of racism as the political system—that’s Mills
Mills ‘97 [1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]
White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it
AND
talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

==Spectacular Blackness (2NR)== 
1NC
THE AFFIRMATIVE’S JUSTIFICATION MAKES Oppression SPECTACULAR
HARTMAN Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY 1997
Saidiya V.- “SCENCES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 20-21
As well, we need ask why the site of suffering so readily lends
AND
the auction block, performing before the master, and other popular amusements.




=Round 5= 
==Afropessimism K (2NR)== 
Same as round 4 except also this card was in the mix

The United States remains institutionally racist—the house has been remodeled but never been taken down—seemingly race neutral policies mask the way racism has imbedded itself
The U.S. society remains a racist system, and though the ideals that give it legitimacy can be used by antiracist struggles to bring about its demise, no large-scale action has been taken to rebuild this system of racism from the foundation up. This white supremacist framework has successfully incorporated “other Americans” of color
Feagin 2k President of the American Sociological Association
Joe-Prof of Sociology, Univ. of Fla. Gainesville; “RACIST AMERICA: Roots, Current Realities and Future Reparations”; 235-236.
The liberal wing of the white elite has an inordinate fondness for setting up commissions
AND
unite for their own survival and periodically, for large-scale protest.


==CBC DA== 

A. UNIQUENESS
OBAMA’S POPULARITY IS WANING AND HIS AGENDA IS NOT PASSING THE BLACK TEST <span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span> BLACKS ARE LOSING FAITH
LAMBRO syndicated columnist and contributor to the WASHINGTON TIMES 3/29 2k13
Donald-; “Unemployed and Black in Obama’s America;” THE WASHINGTON TIMES;
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/mar/29/unemployed-and-black-in-obamas-america/print/
President Obama's failed job policies are facing bitter criticism from black Americans, whose leaders
AND
contributed to the high level of unemployment among all Americans, especially blacks.

B. LINKS

THE AFFIRMATIVE INCREASES THE PRESIDENTS POLITICAL CAPITAL
INSERT LINK HERE


POPULARITY OF OBAMA GUTS BLACK CRITICISM OF OBAMA.
The REALITY OF POLITICS means that going after the President means you lose your constituency----the CBC does not go after the president if he’s popular BUT IS READY TO BE UNLEASHED!
Gould, ’11 [Martin Gould, 07/18/11, “Maxine Waters Ask Blacks for Permission to Attack Obama”, http://www.newsmax.com/InsideCover/maxine-water-obama-blacks/2011/08/18/id/407861]
Leading African-American congresswoman Maxine Waters renewed her assault on President Barack Obama on
AND
asking us, ‘where’s your fight? Where’s your resolve?’”

C. IMPACT <span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span> LOSS OF BLACK POLITICS

LACK OF PRESSURE CREATES BLACK MISLEADERSHIP ERASING BLACK ISSUES FROM THE DOMESTIC ECONOMIC FRONT

Black politics and Obama’s fortune become ONE and the SAME rendering black issues INVISIBLE!
Ford, ’12 [02/22/12, Glen Ford, “The Need for a Black Agenda”, http://www.blackagendareport.com/content/need-black-agenda]
Malcolm X, whose assassination is commemorated this week, warned us that, "
AND
need for a Black political agenda – except four more years of Obama.

LACK OF PRESSURE BY CBC IS DEVASTATING TO BLACK AMERICANS
WRIGHT columnist and political writer for TOWNHALL.com 2k12
Crystal-; “Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Admits Obama’s blackness Trumps His Failed Record”; TOWNHALL.com, September 22; http://townhall.com/columnists/crystalwright/2012/09/22/congressional_black_caucus_chairman_admits_obamas_blackness_trumps_his_failed_record/page/full/
The Congressional Black Caucus was formed in 1971 to advocate on behalf of black Americans
AND
river in the name of giving deference to a brother named Barack Obama.

THIS IMPACT IS WORSE THAN NUCLEAR WAR.
OMOLADE ‘84 [Summer 1984, Barbara- City College Center for Worker Education in New York City a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, p. 12; http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]
In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
AND
cultural integrity, and nuclear arsenals and housing? Who will stand up?




=Round 6= 
Round 1 Aff
New Text: Andrew and I advocate that as reparations: the United States federal government should substantially increase its uncompensated railroad infrastructure labor investment in the United States. 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]