[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
===Plan=== 


The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in lunar depots through a Public Private Partnership in the United States.

===1AC – China=== 
**Advantage 2 is China**

**Obama’s decision to abandon the moon has created a leadership vacuum**
Cal <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomas, ’12</span> (January 3, “China's JFK moment”, Examiner Columnist Cal Thomas is nationally syndicated by Tribune Media, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/2012/01/chinas-jfk-moment/156950]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama's decision</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in 2010 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to cut</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> NASA's budget and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">abandon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the Constellation program, established by the Bush administration, which was charged with </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">returning Americans to the moon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> by 2020 and creating an "extended human presence on the moon," </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has created a vacuum, which China will attempt to fill</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China has announced an ambitious five-year plan that includes the launch of space laboratories, a manned spaceship to the moon and the creation of its own global satellite navigation system that will almost certainly be used for military purposes.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The announcement comes six months after the United States ended the Space Shuttle program, leaving Russia and China as the only countries now capable of sending humans into space</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. must now use Russian rocketry for visits to the International Space Station. How humbling is this? Having "beaten" the Russians to the moon, we must now ask for permission -- and pay them -- to go where we once boldly went before in American-made rockets.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">During the glory days of the U.S. space program, the Soviet Union and the Cold War provided the impetus for America's fledgling efforts in space. NASA's mission was to fulfill President Kennedy's 1961 pledge to put men on the moon by the end of the 1960s.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When Neil Armstrong stepped on the moon's surface on July 20, 1969, America and the world cheered. An estimated half-billion people watched on TV as Armstrong proclaimed, "That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind."</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It was a triumph not only of American science and ingenuity, but a ratification of our way of life and its superiority to communism.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Just as a nation cannot rebuild a gutted military overnight, neither can America reconstitute a space program that has seen many of its scientists and technicians retire or find jobs in other industries.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For people not old enough to have lived through the space program and its named missions -- Mercury, Gemini and Apollo -- there was a sustained unity in America about the space program that held fast even during the divisive Vietnam War. Astronauts, who had "the right stuff," in the words of Tom Wolfe, were treated like supermen.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Who doubts that China will use trips to the moon to build a permanent colony and will operate that colony, at least in part, to further its military goals? China certainly will have the capability through its own GPS system to jam or make mischief with America's global positioning system network</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Does anyone think a nation that hacks into U.S. government computers, stealing secrets, would not use a moon base to advance its interests?</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Who thinks China lacks the financial resources to fulfill its five-year plan? The Chinese are flush with money we pay them for goods made there and sold here</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The next president should declare a</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> rebirth of the U.S. space program, with clear goals, such as a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. moon colony</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and a trip to Mars. A reduction in unnecessary government spending will help pay for it.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Other democratic nations might share the financial burden and receive some benefits. We cannot afford to allow China to become the new leader in space exploration</span>.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Many former U.S. astronauts and NASA employees have criticized the Obama administration's retreat from manned spaceflight. In 2010, Neil Armstrong told the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology that the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama administration's decision to end moon exploration</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and other projects </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">contributes to a "substantial erosion of the United States' historically highly regarded space industrial base</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">," </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which has led to "a reduction in the number of students pursuing advanced engineering degrees."</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">He added, "A lead -- however earnestly and expensively won -- once lost is nearly impossible to regain." Eugene Cernan, the last man to walk on the moon, expressed similar concerns before the same committee.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There will be a space leader in the 21st century. If that leader is China and not the U.S., we will pay a heavy price that will cost us far more than money</span>.

**The US is in a moon race with China---the outcome will alter the balance of power---getting their first is vital to protect our satellites and acquire the resources and skills to facilitate colonization**
Paul <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spudis, 10</span> (Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, 2/9/10, Paul D., SpaceRef.com, “The New Space Race,” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">During the 1990's, we saw a revolution in tactical space - the use of and reliance on space assets on the modern battlefield. The Global Positioning System (GPS) has made the transition to the consumer market, but it was originally designed to allow troops to instantly know their exact positions. A global network of communications satellites carries both voice and data, and interfaces to the partly space-based Internet (another innovation originally built for military technical research). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The entire world is connected and plugged in and spacebridges are now key components of that connection. Fifty years after the beginning of the Space Age, we are now, more than ever, dependent upon our satellite assets</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
Space and the national interest
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most people don't realize how the many satellites in various orbits around the Earth affect their lives. We rely on satellites to provide us with instantaneous global communications that impact almost everything we do</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. We use GPS to find out both where we are and where we are going. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Weather stations in orbit monitor the globe, alerting us to coming storms so that their destructive effects can be minimized. Remote sensors in space map the land and sea, permitting us to understand the distribution of various properties and how they change with time. Other satellites look outward to the Sun, which controls the Earth's climate and "space weather" (which influences radio propagation.) No aspect of our lives is untouched by the satellites orbiting the Earth</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In a real sense, they are the "Skynet" of the Terminator movies - </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they are our eyes (reconnaissance), ears (communications) and brains (GPS and Internet) in Earth orbit. Fortunately, they are not yet self-aware. But the people who operate them are</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">All satellites are vulnerable. Components constantly break down and must be replaced. New technology makes existing facilities obsolete, requiring replacement, at high cost. A satellite must fit within and on the largest launch vehicle we have; satellites thus have a practical size limit, which in turn limits their capabilities and lifetime. Once a satellite stops working, it is abandoned and a replacement must be designed, launched and put into its proper orbit. </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Satellite aging is normal and expected but satellites can also be catastrophically lost or disabled, either accidentally or deliberately. Encounters between objects in space tend to be at very high velocities. The ever-increasing amounts of debris and junk in orbit (e.g., pieces of old rockets and satellites) can hit functioning satellites and destroy them. NORAD carefully tracks the bigger pieces of junk and some spacecraft (e.g., ISS) can be maneuvered out of the path of oncoming debris, but smaller pieces (e.g., the size of a bolt or screw) cannot be tracked and if they collide with a critical part, it can cripple a satellite</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It has long been recognized that satellites are extremely vulnerable to attack and anti-satellite warfare (ASAT) is another possible cause of failure</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Both the US and the USSR experimented with ASAT warfare during the Cold War. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although it sounds exotic, ASAT merely takes advantage of the fragility of these spacecraft to render them inoperative. This can be done with remote affecters like lasers to "blind" optical sensors. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The simplest ASAT weapon is kinetic, i.e., an impactor. By intercepting a satellite with a projectile at high relative velocity, the satellite is rapidly and easily rendered worthless. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Despite the fact that the destruction of satellites is relatively easy, it has seldom happened by accident and never as an act of war. Although most space assets are extremely vulnerable, they are left alone because they are not easy to get to. Some orbiting spacecraft occupy low Earth orbit (LEO) and are accessible to interceptors, but many valuable strategic assets are in the much higher orbits of middle Earth orbit (MEO) 3000 to 35000 km and geosynchronous Earth orbit (GEO) 35786 km. Such orbits are difficult to reach and require long transit times and complex orbital maneuvers which quickly reveal themselves and their purpose to ground-based tracking. </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In 1998, a communications satellite was left in a useless transfer orbit after a booster failure. Engineers at Hughes (the makers of the satellite) devised a clever scheme to send the satellite to GEO using a gravity assist from the Moon. This was the world's first "commercial" flight to the Moon and it saved the expensive satellite for its planned use. One aspect of this rescue is seldom mentioned but attracted the attention of military space watchers everywhere. This satellite approached GEO from an unobserved (and at least partly unobservable) direction. Most trips to GEO travel from LEO upwards; this one came down from the Moon, a direction not ordinarily monitored by tracking systems. This mission dramatically illustrated the importance of what is called "situational awareness" in space</span>.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Our current model of operations in space is well established. Satellites must be self-contained and operated until dead, then completely replaced - a template of design, build, launch, operate, and abandon. With few exceptions, we are not able to access satellites to repair or upgrade them. Sometimes favorable conditions allow us to be clever and rescue an asset that had been written off, but the system is not designed for such operation. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The current spaceflight paradigm is a use and throwaway culture. Yet thirty years of experience with the Shuttle program has shown us that such is not the case by necessity. What is missing is the ability to get people and servicing machines to the various satellites in all their myriad locations: LEO is easy, but MEO and GEO cannot be accessed with existing space systems. Yet from the experience of Shuttle and ISS, we know that if they could, a revolution in the way spaceflight is approached might be possible.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Vision for Space Exploration and its implications</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Vision for Space Exploration (the Vision, or VSE,) announced by President Bush in January 2004, called for returning the Shuttle to flight after the Columbia accident, completion of the International Space Station, a human return to the Moon and eventually voyages to Mars and other destinations. This proposal was subsequently endorsed by two different Congresses (in 2005 and 2008) under the control of different parties; both authorizations passed with large bipartisan majorities. The preface to the founding VSE document states that the new policy is undertaken to serve national "security, economic and scientific interests." </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Subsequent statements and writings elaborated on the purpose of the VSE. Despite concerted efforts to distort its meaning, the goal of lunar return was not to repeat Apollo but to create a long-term, sustained human presence in space by learning to use the material and energy resources of the Moon. The VSE was to be implemented under existing and anticipated budgetary constraints; the guidance given to NASA for this aspect of the mission was to stretch timetables if money became short. The idea was to create this new system with small, incremental, yet cumulative steps.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The intellectual underpinnings of the VSE began to be undermined by NASA almost immediately. The Exploration Systems Architecture Study (ESAS) made lunar return an Apollo redux, with the development of a large, 150-mT-payload heavy lift vehicle becoming the centerpiece and sine qua non of human spaceflight beyond LEO. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An ambitious program to establish an early robotic presence to prospect for resources on the Moon was cancelled</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, along with the incremental approach outlined by the Vision. Thus, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Moon became a distant goal</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, with first arrival of humans occurring well after 2020, if then. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NASA had chosen something familiar, an architecture very similar to Apollo with little effort made to develop reusable, refuelable spacecraft</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (although the Altair lander used LOX-hydrogen, so in principle, it could be modified for refueling).</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Inshort, the purpose of returning to the Moon, i.e., to create a sustainable human presence based on the use of lunar resources, got lost</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the ESAS shuffle. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lunar return became synonymous with "Apollo on Steroids" and heavy-lift rocket building</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> while ESAS (Constellation) became synonymous with the VSE. Project Constellation, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the agency project to develop the new Orion spacecraft and Ares I and Ares V launch vehicles, was a costly, throw-away space system that got us to the Moon with considerable capability, but with little or no thought given to planned surface objectives or activities</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The idea of finding and learning to use the resources of the Moon became an experiment slated for the manifest of some future mission, not the primary driver or objective of lunar return. Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is currently mapping the Moon and sending us data on the extent and nature of lunar resources, but no lander missions are planned to follow up on its findings. The ingenuity of an incremental program was lost and we created no new capability in space.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The goal</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of the VSE </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is to create the capability to live ON the Moon and OFF its local resources with the goals of self-sufficiency and sustainability, including the production of propellant and refueling of cislunar transport vehicles.A system that is able to routinely go to and from the lunar surface is also able to access any other point in cislunar space. We can eventually export lunar propellant to fueling depots throughout cislunar space, where most of our space assets reside. In short, by going to the Moon, we create a new and qualitatively different capability for space access, a "transcontinental railroad" in space. Such a system would completely transform the paradigm of spaceflight. We would develop serviceable satellites, not ones designed to be abandoned after use. We could create extensible, upgradeable systems, not "use and discard." The ability to transport people and machines throughout cislunar space permits the construction of distributed instead of self-contained systems. Such space assets are more flexible, more capable and more easily defended than conventional ones</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The key to this new paradigm is to learn if it is possible to use lunar and space resources to create new capabilities and if so, how difficult it might be. Despite years of academic study, no one has demonstrated resource extraction on the Moon. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is nothing in the physics and chemistry of the materials of the Moon that suggests it is not possible</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, but we simply do not know how difficult it is or what practical problems might arise. This is why </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">resource utilization is an appropriate goal for the federal space program</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As a high-risk engineering research and development project, it is difficult for the private sector to raise the necessary capital to understand the magnitude of the problem. The VSE was conceived to let NASA answer these questions and begin the process of creating a permanent cislunar transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So where do we stand with the creation of such system? Is such a change in paradigm desirable? Are we still in a "space race" or is that an obsolete concept? The answers to some of these questions are not at all obvious. We must consider them fully, as this information is available to all space faring nations to adopt and adapt for their own uses. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A new space race</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The race to the Moon of the 1960's was an exercise in "soft power" projection. We raced the Soviets to the Moon to demonstrate the superiority of our technology, not only to them, but also to the uncommitted and watching world. The landing of Apollo 11 in July 1969 was by any reckoning a huge win for United States and the success of Apollo gave us technical credibility for the Cold War endgame. Fifteen years after the moon landing, President Reagan advocated the development of a missile defense shield, the so-called Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). Although disparaged by many in the West as unattainable, this program was taken very seriously by the Soviets. I believe that this was largely because the United States had already succeeded in accomplishing a very difficult technical task (the lunar landing) that the Soviet Union had not accomplished. Thus, the Soviets saw SDI as not only possible, but likely and its advent would render their entire nuclear strategic capability useless in an instant.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In this interpretation, the Apollo program achieved not only its literal objective of landing a man on the Moon (propaganda, soft power) but also its more abstract objective of intimidating our Soviet adversary (technical surprise, hard power). Thus, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Apollo played a key role in the end of the Cold War</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, one far in excess of what many scholars believe. Similarly, our two follow-on programs of Shuttle and Station, although fraught with technical issues and deficiencies as tools of exploration, had significant success in pointing the way towards a new paradigm for space. That new path involves getting people and machines to satellite assets in space for construction, servicing, extension and repair. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Through the experience of ISS construction, we now know it is possible to assemble very large systems in space from smaller pieces, and we know how to approach such a problem. Mastery of these skills suggests that the construction of new, large distributed systems for communications, surveillance, and other tasks is possible. These new space systems would be much more capable and enabling than existing ones</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Warfare in space is not as depicted in science-fiction movies, with flying saucers blasting lasers at speeding spaceships. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The real threat from active space warfare is denial of assets and access. Communications satellites are silenced, reconnaissance satellites are blinded, and GPS constellations made inoperative. This completely disrupts command and control and forces reliance on terrestrially based systems. Force projection and coordination becomes more difficult, cumbersome and slower</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recently, China tested an ASAT weapon in space, indicating that they fully understand the military benefits of hard space power</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have an interest in the Moon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, probably for "soft power" projection ("Flags-and-Footprints") at some level. Sending astronauts beyond low Earth orbit is a statement of their technical equality with the United States, as among space faring nations, only we have done this in the past. So it is likely that the Chinese see a manned lunar mission as a propaganda coup. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that they also understand the Moon's strategic value, as described above. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They tend to take a long view, spanning decades, not the short-term view that America favors. Thus, although their initial plans for human lunar missions do not feature resource utilization, they know the technical literature as well as we do and know that such use is possible and enabling. They are also aware of the value of the Moon as a "backdoor" to approach other levels of cislunar space, as the rescue of the Hughes communications satellite demonstrated</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The struggle for soft power projection in space has not ended. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If space resource extraction and commerce is possible, a significant question emerges - What societal paradigm shall prevail in this new economy</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many New Space advocates assume that free markets and capitalism is the obvious organizing principle of space commerce, but others might not agree. For example, to China, a government-corporatist oligarchy, the benefits of a pluralistic, free market system are not obvious</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Moreover, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">respect for contract law, a fundamental reason why Western capitalism is successful while its implementation in the developing world has had mixed results, does not exist in China</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. So what shall the organizing principle of society be in the new commerce of space resources: rule of law or authoritarian oligarchy? An American win in this new race for space does not guarantee that free markets will prevail, but </span><span class="Box">an American loss could ensure that free markets would never emerge on this new frontier.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Why are we going to the Moon</span>?
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy laid out the reasons that America had to go the Moon. Among the many ideas that he articulated, one stood out. He said, "whatever men shall undertake, free men must fully share." This was a classic expression of American exceptionalism, that idea that we must explore new frontiers not to establish an empire, but to ensure that our political and economic system prevails, a system that has created the most freedom and the largest amount of new wealth in the hands of the greatest number of people in the history of the world. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is a statement of both soft and hard power projection; by leading the world into space, we guarantee that space does not become the private domain of powers who view humanity as cogs in their ideological machine, rather than as individuals to be valued and protected.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Vision was created to extend human reach beyond its current limit of low Earth orbit. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It made the Moon the first destination because it has the material and energy resources needed to create a true space faring system</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recent data from the Moon show that it is even richer in resource potential than we had thought; both abundant water and near-permanent sunlight is available at selected areas near the poles. We go to the Moon to learn how to extract and use those resources to create a space transportation system that can routinely access all of cislunar space with both machines and people. Such a system is the logical next step in both space security and commerce. This goal for NASA makes the agency relevant to important national interests. A return to the Moon for resource utilization contributes to national security and economic interests as well as scientific ones.</span>
<span class="Box">There is indeed a new space race</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. It is just as important and vital to our country's future as the original one, if not as widely perceived and appreciated. It </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consists of a struggle with both hard and soft power. The hard power aspect is to confront the ability of other nations to deny us access to our vital satellite assets of cislunar space. The soft power aspect is a question: how shall society be organized in space</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">? Both issues are equally important and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">both are addressed by lunar return</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Will space be a sanctuary for science and PR stunts or will it be a true frontier with scientists and pilots, but also miners, technicians, entrepreneurs and settlers? The decisions made now will decide the fate of space for generations. The choice is clear; we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**China is aggressively pursuing the moon---multiple sources prove**
William R. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hawkins, ‘11</span> (3/7, a consultant specializing in international economic and national security issues. He is a former economics professor and Republican Congressional staff member, [[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.8906/pub_detail.asp]])

<span class="Box">Meanwhile, China is positioning itself to lead humankind' further into space</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The state news agency Xinhua reported Friday, "The world's largest design, production and testing base for rockets is being built</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in Tianjin" </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as part of China's expanding space program.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Twenty of the 22 plants have been completed, and some of are ready for operation. The base is designed to meet China's growing demand for space technology for the next thirty years. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By integrating the industrial chain, the base will be able to produce the whole spectrum of rockets for China's lunar missions, its own space station and other ambitious projects according to Liang Xiaohong, deputy head of the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">China is still behind the United States, having only sent its first multi-man orbital mission aloft in 2008, but it has big ideas. Beijing plans 20 space missions this year, and wants to land an unmanned vehicle on the Moon in 2013. China sent a spacecraft to orbit the Moon last October.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The stirring vision of giant space stations, commercial shuttle flights and extensive moon bases given to the public in the classic 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey has become a sad testimony to three decades of lost American opportunities. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">I have seen this once great American spirit of adventure reborn in China. I have been amazed (and alarmed) by displays of Chinese plans to build </span><span class="Box">bases on the Moon</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, then move farther into the solar system. I grew up in a confident America animated by futuristic thinking, but that drive has faded. Beijing is now the home of energy and ambition.</span>
<span class="Box">What happens in space is not divorced from what happens on Earth.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Though clearly helpful to military space projects, NASA is charted as a civilian organization in line with idealist notions about the heavens being a clean slate free of power politics. </span><span class="Box">There are no such illusions in China</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Beijing's manned-space program is placed under the General Armament Department within the Ministry of Defense. The Long March rockets used for space launches are similar in design to China's nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missiles. More important, is the spirit demonstrated in the space effort. </span><span class="Box">History has not been kind to nations that stagnate in the face of a rising competitor</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The desire to succeed is the most important element in any strategy</span>.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The NASA strategic plan claims, "Humanity’s interest in the heavens has been universal and enduring. Humans are driven to explore the unknown, discover new worlds, push the boundaries of our scientific and technical limits, and then push further. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NASA is tasked with developing the capabilities that will support our country’s long-term human space flight and exploration efforts." But where is the higher national leadership with the vision to back these efforts</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">? The frontier spirit that built America has waned. Both political parties are too busy looking at the mud around their feet to look up at the sky.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So much for the "giant leap for mankind" so bravely stated over 40 years ago. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">what can be expected in a country where Buzz Aldrin, who with Neil Armstrong were the first men to walk on the Moon, ends up on "Dancing with the Stars" performing for an audience most of whom had never heard of him. </span><span class="Box">Nothing could better portray the decline of American civilization. </span>


**Abandoning the moon devastates US leadership**
Former Sen. Harrison H. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schmitt, ’10</span> (2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Histories of nations tell us that an aggressive program to return Americans permanently to deep space must form an essential component of national policy. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Americans would find it unacceptable, as well as devastating to liberty, if we abandon leadership in space to the Chinese, Europe, or any other nation or group of nations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Potentially equally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">devastating to billions of people would be loss of freedom's access to the energy resources of the Moon as fossil fuels diminish and populations and demand increase.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In that harsh light of history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is frightening to contemplate the long-term, totally adverse consequences to the standing of the United States in modern civilization if the current Administration's decision to abandon deep space holds.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Even a commitment to maintain the International Space Station using commercial launch assets constitutes a dead-end for Americans in space. At some point, now set at the end of this decade, the $150 billion Station becomes a dead-end and would be abandoned to the Russians or just destroyed, ending America's human space activities entirely.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What, then, should be the focus of national space policy in order to maintain leadership in deep space? Some propose that we concentrate only on Mars. Without the experience of returning to the Moon, however, we will not have the engineering, operational, or physiological insight for many decades to either fly to Mars or land there. Others suggest going to an asteroid. As important as diversion of an asteroid from collision with the Earth someday may be, just going there hardly stimulates łScience and the useful Arts˛ anything like a permanent American settlement on the Moon! Other means exist, robots and meteorites, for example, to obtain most or all of the scientific value from a human mission to an asteroid. In any event, returning to the Moon inherently creates capabilities for reaching asteroids to study or divert them, as the case may be.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Returning to the Moon and to deep space constitutes the right and continuing space policy choice for the Congress of the United States. It compares in significance to Jefferson's dispatch of Lewis and Clark to explore the Louisiana Purchase. The lasting significance to American growth and survival of Jefferson's decision cannot be questioned. Human exploration of space embodies the same basic instincts as the exploration of the West ­ the exercise of freedom, betterment of one's conditions, and curiosity about nature. Such instincts lie at the very core of America's unique and special society of immigrants.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Over the last 150,000 years or more, human exploration of Earth has yielded new homes, livelihoods, know how, and resources as well as improved standards of living and increased family security. Government has directly and indirectly played a role in encouraging exploration efforts. Private groups and individuals take additional initiatives to explore newly discovered or newly accessible lands and seas. Based on their specific historical experience, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Americans can expect benefits comparable to those sought and won in the past also will flow from their return to the Moon, future exploration of Mars, and the long reach beyond. To realize such benefits, however, Americans must continue as the leader of human activities in space. No one else will hand them to us. Other than buying our national debt, China does not believe in welfare for the U.S.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">With a permanent resumption of the exploration of deep space, one thing is certain: our efforts will be as significant as those of our ancestors as they migrated out of Africa and into a global habitat. Further, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a permanent human presence away from Earth provides another opportunity for the expansion of free institutions, with all their attendant rewards, as humans face new situations and new individual and societal challenges.</span>
<span class="Box">Returning to the Moon first</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and as </span><span class="Box">soon as possible</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> meets the requirements for an American space policy that maintains deep space leadership, as well as providing major new scientific returns</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Properly conceived and implemented, returning to the Moon prepares the way to go to and land on Mars.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> This also can provide a policy in which freedom-loving peoples throughout the world can participate as active partners.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Congressionally approved Constellation Program, properly funded, contains most of the technical elements necessary to implement a policy of deep space leadership, particularly because it includes development of a heavy lift launch vehicle, the Ares V. In addition, Constellation includes a large upper stage for transfer to the Moon and other destinations, two well conceived spacecraft for transport and landing of crews on the lunar surface, strong concepts for exploration and lunar surface systems, and enthusiastic engineers and managers to make it happen if adequately supported. The one major missing component of a coherent and sustaining deep space systems architecture may be a well-developed concept for in-space refueling of spacecraft and upper rockets stages. The experience base for developing in-space refueling capabilities clearly exists.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Again, if we abandon leadership in deep space to any other nation or group of nations, particularly a non-democratic regime, the ability for the United States and its allies to protect themselves and liberty will be at great risk and potentially impossible. To others would accrue the benefits ­ psychological, political, economic, and scientific ­ that the United States harvested as a consequence of Apollo's success 40 years ago. This lesson has not been lost on our ideological and economic competitors.</span>


**Abesnt effective u.s. hegemony global wars will ensue**
**Brooks, Ikenberry, and Wohlforth ’13** (Stephen, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, William C. Wohlforth is the Daniel Webster Professor in the Department of Government at Dartmouth College “Don’t Come Home America: The Case Against Retrenchment,” International Security, Vol. 37, No. 3 (Winter 2012/13), pp. 7–51)
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A core premise of </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">deep engagement</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is that it </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">prevents </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">emergence</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a far more </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">dangerous </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">global security</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">environment</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. For one thing, as noted above, the</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> U</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates’ overseas</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> presence gives it </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">leverage</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> to restrain partners from </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">taking</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> provocative action</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Perhaps more important, its core </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">alliance commitments</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">deter states </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">with aspirations to regional hegemony</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> from contemplating expansion</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and make its partners more secure, reducing their incentive to adopt solutions to their security problems that threaten others and thus stoke security dilemmas. The contention that engaged </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">U.S. power dampens the</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">baleful</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">effects of anarchy</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is consistent with influential variants of realist theory. Indeed, arguably the scariest portrayal of the war-prone world that would emerge absent the “American Pacifier” is provided in the works of John</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mearsheimer</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, who </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">forecasts dangerous multipolar regions replete with security competition, arms races, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nuclear proliferation and associated preventive war temptations, regional rivalries, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> even runs at regional hegemony and </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">full-scale great power war.</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 72 How do retrenchment advocates, the bulk of whom are realists, discount this benefit? Their arguments are complicated, but two capture most of the variation: (1) U.S. security guarantees are not necessary to prevent dangerous rivalries and conflict in Eurasia; or (2) prevention of rivalry and conflict in Eurasia is not a U.S. interest. Each response is connected to a different theory or set of theories, which makes sense given that the whole debate hinges on a complex future counterfactual (what would happen to Eurasia’s security setting if the United States truly disengaged?). Although a certain answer is impossible, each of these responses is nonetheless a weaker argument for retrenchment than advocates acknowledge. The first response flows from defensive realism as well as other international relations theories that discount the conflict-generating potential of anarchy under contemporary conditions. 73 Defensive realists maintain that the high expected costs of territorial conquest, defense dominance, and an array of policies and practices that can be used credibly to signal benign intent, mean that Eurasia’s major states could manage regional multipolarity peacefully without the American pacifier. Retrenchment would be a bet on this scholarship, particularly in regions where the kinds of stabilizers that nonrealist theories point to—such as democratic governance or dense institutional linkages—are either absent or weakly present. There are three other major bodies of scholarship, however, that might give decisionmakers pause before making this bet. First is regional expertise. Needless to say, there is no consensus on the net security effects of U.S. withdrawal. Regarding each region, there are optimists and pessimists. Few experts expect a return of intense great power competition in a post-American Europe, but many doubt European governments will pay the political costs of increased EU defense cooperation and the budgetary costs of increasing military outlays. 74 The result might be a </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Europe </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> is incapable of securing itself from</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> various </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">threats that could be destabilizing</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> within the region and beyond (e.g., a regional conflict akin to the 1990s Balkan wars), lacks capacity for global security missions in which U.S. leaders might want European participation, and is vulnerable to the influence of outside rising powers. What about the other parts of Eurasia where the United States has a substantial military presence? Regarding the Middle East, the balance begins to swing toward pessimists concerned that states currently backed by Washington— notably </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Israel, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">might take actions </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">upon U.S. retrenchment </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">that would intensify security dilemmas</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. And concerning East Asia, pessimism regarding the region’s prospects without the American pacifier is pronounced. Arguably the principal concern expressed by area experts is that </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Japan and South Korea </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">are likely to</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">obtain a nuclear capacity</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and increase their military commitments, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">which could stoke a destabilizing reaction from China</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. It is notable that during the Cold War, both South Korea and Taiwan moved to obtain a nuclear weapons capacity and were only constrained from doing so by a still-engaged United States. 75 The second body of scholarship casting doubt on the bet on defensive realism’s sanguine portrayal is all of the research that undermines its conception of state preferences. Defensive realism’s optimism about what would happen if the United States retrenched is very much dependent on its particular—and highly restrictive—assumption about state preferences; once we relax this assumption, then much of its basis for optimism vanishes. Specifically, the prediction of post-American tranquility throughout Eurasia rests on the assumption that security is the only relevant state preference, with security defined narrowly in terms of protection from violent external attacks on the homeland. Under that assumption, the security problem is largely solved as soon as offense and defense are clearly distinguishable, and offense is extremely expensive relative to defense. </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Burgeoning</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> research across the</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> social and other </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">sciences</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">undermines that core assumption</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">states have preferences</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> not only for security but also </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">for prestige, status, and other aims</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and they engage in trade-offs among the various objectives. 76 In addition, they define security not just in terms of territorial protection but in view of many and varied milieu goals. It follows that even states that are relatively secure may nevertheless engage in highly competitive behavior. Empirical studies show that this is indeed sometimes the case. 77 In sum, a bet on a benign postretrenchment Eurasia is a bet that leaders of major countries will never allow these nonsecurity preferences to influence their strategic choices. To the degree that these bodies of scholarly knowledge have predictive leverage, U.S. retrenchment would result in a significant deterioration in the security environment in at least some of the world’s key regions. We have already mentioned the third, even more alarming body of scholarship. Offensive realism predicts that </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the withdrawal of</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">America</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">n pacifier </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">will yield</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> either a competitive regional</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">multipolarity complete with</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> associated insecurity, arms racing, </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">crisis instability, nuclear proliferation, and</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the like, or bids for regional hegemony, which may be beyond the capacity of local great powers to contain (and which in any case would generate intensely competitive behavior, possibly including regional </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">great power war</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">). Hence it is unsurprising that retrenchment advocates are prone to focus on the second argument noted above: that avoiding wars and security dilemmas in the world’s core regions is not a U.S. national interest. Few doubt that the United States could survive the return of insecurity and conflict among Eurasian powers, but at what cost? Much of the work in this area has focused on the economic externalities of a renewed threat of insecurity and war, which we discuss below. Focusing on the pure security ramifications, there are two main reasons why decisionmakers may be rationally reluctant to run the retrenchment experiment. First, overall higher levels of conflict make the world a more dangerous place. Were Eurasia to return to higher levels of interstate military competition, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">one would see</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> overall higher levels of military spending and innovation and a higher likelihood of competitive regional</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">proxy wars and arming of client states</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">—all of which would be concerning, in part because it would promote a faster diffusion of military power away from the United States. Greater regional insecurity could well feed proliferation cascades, as states such as </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Egypt, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Saudi Arabia</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> all </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">might</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> choose to </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">create nuclear forces</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. 78 It is unlikely that proliferation decisions by any of these actors would be the end of the game: they would likely generate pressure locally for more proliferation. Following Kenneth Waltz, many retrenchment advocates are proliferation optimists, assuming that nuclear deterrence solves the security problem. 79 Usually carried out in dyadic terms,</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the debate over the stability of prolif</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">eration </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">changes as the numbers go up</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Proliferation</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> optimism rests on assumptions of rationality </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and narrow security preferences. In social science, however,</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">such assumptions are inevitably probabilistic</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Optimists assume that most states are led by rational leaders, most will overcome organizational problems and resist the temptation to preempt before feared neighbors nuclearize, and most pursue only security and are risk averse. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Confidence </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in such probabilistic assumptions</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> declines if the world were to move from nine to</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> twenty, thirty, or </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">forty nuclear states</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In addition, many of the other dangers noted by analysts who are concerned about the destabilizing effects of nuclear proliferation—including</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the risk of accidents and the prospects that</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> some new nuclear</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">powers will not have</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> truly </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">survivable forces</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">—seem prone to</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> go up </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">as the number of nuclear powers grows. 80 Moreover, the risk of “unforeseen </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">crisis dynamics</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">” that </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">could </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">spin out of control</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is also higher as the number of nuclear powers increases. Finally, add to these concerns the enhanced danger of nuclear leakage, and a world with overall higher levels of security competition becomes yet more worrisome. The argument that maintaining Eurasian peace is not a U.S. interest faces a second problem. On widely accepted realist assumptions, acknowledging that U.S. engagement preserves peace dramatically narrows the difference between retrenchment and deep engagement. For many supporters of retrenchment, the optimal strategy for a power such as the United States, which has attained regional hegemony and is separated from other great powers by oceans, is offshore balancing: stay over the horizon and “pass the buck” to local powers to do the dangerous work of counterbalancing any local rising power. The United States should commit to onshore balancing only when local balancing is likely to fail and a great power appears to be a credible contender for regional hegemony, as in the cases of Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union in the midtwentieth century. The problem is that China’s rise puts the possibility of its attaining regional hegemony on the table, at least in the medium to long term. As Mearsheimer notes, “</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">will </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">have to</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> play a key role in countering China</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, because its Asian neighbors are not strong enough to do it by themselves.” 81 Therefore, unless China’s rise stalls, “the United States is likely to act toward China similar to the way it behaved toward the Soviet Union during the Cold War.” 82 It follows that the United States should take no action that would compromise its capacity to move to onshore balancing in the future. It will need to maintain key alliance relationships in Asia as well as the formidably expensive military capacity to intervene there. The implication is to get out of Iraq and Afghanistan, reduce the presence in Europe, and pivot to Asia— just what the United States is doing. 83 In sum, </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the argument that U.S.</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> **security**</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">commitments are unnecessary</span>****<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> for peace </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is countered by a lot of scholarship</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, including highly influential realist scholarship. In addition, the argument that Eurasian peace is unnecessary for U.S. security is weakened by the potential for a large number of nasty security consequences as well as the need to retain a latent onshore balancing capacity that dramatically reduces the savings retrenchment might bring. Moreover, switching between offshore and onshore balancing could well be difªcult. Bringing together the thrust of many of the arguments discussed so far underlines the degree to which </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the case for retrenchment misses the</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> underlying</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">logic of</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the</span> **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">deep engagement</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">strategy. By supplying reassurance, deterrence, and active management, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the U</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">lowers security competition</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the world’s key regions, thereby </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">preventing </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the emergence of</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a hothouse atmosphere for </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">growing</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> new military capabilities</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Alliance ties dissuade partners from ramping up and also provide leverage to prevent military transfers to potential rivals. On top of all this, the United States’ formidable military machine may deter entry by potential rivals. Current great power military expenditures as a percentage of GDP are at historical lows, and thus far other major powers have shied away from seeking to match top-end U.S. military capabilities. In addition, they have so far been careful to avoid attracting the “focused enmity” of the United States. 84 All of the world’s most modern militaries are U.S. allies (America’s alliance system of more than sixty countries now accounts for some 80 percent of global military spending), and the gap between the U.S. military capability and that of potential rivals is by many measures growing rather than shrinking. 85</span>

**That deterrence is sufficient – Empirics prove**
**Drezner 05**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, perhaps, since our distant forebears realized that a tree limb could be used as a club. But here is something you would never guess from watching the news: War has entered a cycle of decline. Combat in Iraq and in a few other places is an exception to a significant global trend that has gone nearly unnoticed--namely that, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> about </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">15 years, there have been steadily fewer armed conflicts</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> worldwide. In fact, it is possible that a person's chance of dying because of war has, in the last decade or more, become the lowest in human history. Is Easterbrook right? He has a few more paragraphs on the numbers: The University of Maryland </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">studies find</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">number of wars</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and armed conflicts worldwide </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">peaked in 1991 at 51</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which may represent the most wars happening simultaneously at any point in history. Since 1991, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">number has fallen</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> steadily. There were 26 armed conflicts in 2000 and 25 in 2002, even after the Al Qaeda attack on the United States and the U.S. counterattack against Afghanistan. By</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 2004</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Marshall and Gurr's latest study shows, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">number</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of armed conflicts in the world had </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">declined to 20</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, even after the invasion of Iraq. All told, there were less than half as many wars in 2004 as there were in 1991. Marshall and Gurr also have a second ranking, gauging the magnitude of fighting. This section of the report is more subjective. Everyone agrees that the worst moment for human conflict was World War II; but how to rank, say, the current separatist fighting in Indonesia versus, say, the Algerian war of independence is more speculative. Nevertheless, the Peace and Conflict studies name 1991 as the peak post-World War II year for totality of global fighting, giving that year a ranking of 179 on a scale that rates the extent and destructiveness of combat. By 2000, in spite of war in the Balkans and genocide in Rwanda, the number had fallen to 97; by 2002 to 81; and, at the end of 2004, it stood at 65. This suggests the extent andintensity of global combat is now less than half what it was 15 years ago. Easterbrook spends the rest of the essay postulating the causes of this -- the decline in great power war, the spread of democracies, the growth of economic interdependence, and even the peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Easterbrook makes a lot of good points -- most people are genuinely shocked when they are told that even in a post-9/11 climate, there has been a steady and persistent decline in wars and deaths from wars. That said, what bothers me in the piece is what Easterbrook leaves out. First, he neglects to mention </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">biggest</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> reason </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">for</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> why war is on the decline -- </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">there's</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a global hegemon called the U</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates right now. Easterbrook acknowledges that "the most powerful factor must be the end of the cold war" but he doesn't understand why it's the most powerful factor. Elsewhere in the piece he talks about the growing comity among the great powers, without discussing the elephant in the room: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the reason </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">the "great</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> powers" get along is </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the U</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is much</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, much </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more powerful</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> than anyone else. If you quantify power only by relative military capabilities, the U.S. is a great power, there are maybe ten or so middle powers, and then there are a lot of mosquitoes.[If the U.S. is so powerful, why can't it subdue the Iraqi insurgency?--ed. Power is a relative measure -- the U.S. might be having difficulties, but no other country in the world would have fewer problems.] Joshua Goldstein, who knows a thing or two about this phenomenon, made this clear in a Christian Science Monitor op-ed three years ago: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> probably </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">owe this</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> lull to the end of the cold war, and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to a </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">unipolar</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> world order with a </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">single</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> superpower to impose its will</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in places like Kuwait, Serbia, and Afghanistan. The emerging world order is not exactly benign – Sept. 11 comes to mind – and Pax Americana delivers neither justice nor harmony to the corners of the earth. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a unipolar world is </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">inherently</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> more peaceful than the bipolar one</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> where two superpowers fueled rival armies around the world. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> long-delayed "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">peace dividend" has arrived</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, like a tax refund check long lost in the mail. The difference in language between Goldstein and Easterbrook highlights my second problem with "The End of War?" Goldstein rightly refers to the past fifteen years as a "lull" -- a temporary reduction in war and war-related death. The flip side of U.S. hegemony being responsible for the reduction of armed conflict is what would happen if U.S. hegemony were to ever fade away. Easterbrook focuses on the trends that suggest an ever-decreasing amount of armed conflict -- and I hope he's right. But I'm enough of a realist to know that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if the U.S. should find its primacy challenged</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by, say, a really populous non-democratic country on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, all best about the utility of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">economic interdependence</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, U.N. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">peacekeeping, and</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the spread of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">democracy are right out the window</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. UPDATE: To respond to a few thoughts posted by the commenters: 1) To spell things out a bit more clearly -- U.S. hegemony important to the reduction of conflict in two ways. First, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. power can act as a powerful</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> if imperfect </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">constraint on pairs of enduring rivals</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Greece-Turkey, India-Pakistan) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that contemplate war </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">on a regular basis. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It can't stop every conflict, but it can blunt a lot of them</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Second, and more important to Easterbrook's thesis, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. supremacy in conventional military affairs prevents</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> other </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">middle</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">-range </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">states</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- China, Russia, India, Great Britain, France, etc. -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from challenging the U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or each other in a war. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It would be suicide for anyone to fight a war with the U.S</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">., and if any of these countries waged a war with each other, the </span>







===1AC - Stem – New=== 
**STEM on the decline a strategy is needed to change it - Key to leadership biotech nanotech**
**Kay 4/3** - Robson Professor of Politics and Government and Chair, International Studies at Ohio Wesleyan
University and Mershon Associate at the Mershon Center for International Security Studies at the Ohio State
University. His most recent book is Global Security in the Twenty-first Century: The Quest for Power and the Search <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>for Peace, 2nd ed. (Rowman and Littlefield, 2011) ( To cite this article: Sean Kay (2013): America's Sputnik Moments, Survival: Global Politics and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Strategy, 55:2, 123-146)bs

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Failure to adjust to repeated shocks to the system has led to strategic ¶ paralysis at a key moment of systemic international change</span>. America’s <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">¶ economic position has been falling since the turn of the century </span>relative ¶ to China, whose economic capacity has been growing rapidly and consistently. In fact, as University of Chicago Professor Robert Pape <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>has shown, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the decline in America’s share of the gross world ¶ product is only surpassed in modern history by that of Russia ¶ after the collapse of the Soviet Union</span>.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">21 A crucial element of ¶ this trend can be measured in terms of US decline in world ¶ export share of high-tech manufactured good</span>s, which fell <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>between 1995 and 2008 from 21% to 14%.22 <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The irony of this ¶ trend is that many of the key elements that led to America’s ¶ rise in power after Sputnik proved to be among the least expensive. The total amount of US funding for federal research and ¶ development between the 1960s and 2010 ranged between a scant 0.2% and ¶ 0.6% of American GDP.</span>23 Meanwhile, Europe and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China have made continued growth in state funding for research and development a priority while ¶ America has stayed flat</span>. The Battelle Memorial Institute notes that, while in <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>2013 <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China’s overall investment in research and development is half that of ¶ the United States, its ongoing and projected growth would see it surpass ¶ America by 2023</span>; China and India have been increasing investment annually by about 10% or more. Meanwhile, Battelle notes, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the United States cut ¶ its federal funding for research and development in 2012 by 1.4%.</span>24 Since the <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>1950s, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the relationship between federal (then the dominant role) and industry for research and development has inverted – and within the federal ¶ allocations, by 2007, 75.5% was allocated to two areas of which 49.9% went ¶ to the Department of Defense and 25.5% to the National Institute of Health.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Only 3.1% went to DARPA and 0.3% to the Department of Education, which <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Failure ¶ to adjust ¶ has led to ¶ strategic ¶ paralysis has the overall responsibility for generating the future workforce for areas ¶ in science, technology, engineering and math skills.2</span>5<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Rather than becoming a topic for debate and reflection, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this relative ¶ decline has for the most part become a no-go area in US political discourse</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>as if <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to</span> even acknowledge the issue is to somehow show weakness. The irony <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>of the range of challenges, internal and external, which confront American <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>strategic decision-making is that there have been solid recommendations on <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>how to right the course available for well over a decade. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">American decisionmakers have had more than enough warning time, but when they have ¶ invested, they have largely ignored or undersupplied areas which could ¶ have both addressed immediate security concerns and laid a new platform ¶ for sustained American competitiveness</span>. In 1997, the National Science Board <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>stated that ‘<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the presence of global competition, a nation should be strong ¶ in all the facets of technical innovation and should have available a continuously renewed base of knowledge to inform its decisions and those of its ¶ citizens’</span>.26 In early 2001, the Hart–Rudman Commission (after its co-chairs, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>former Senators Gary Hart and Warren Rudman) noted that the entire <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">institutional basis of American national security was ‘in decline and must be ¶ rebuilt’</span> or <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the United States risked ‘losing its global influence and critical ¶ leadership role’.</span> The commission surveyed a range of threats, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">including ¶ catastrophic terrorist attacks against the United States, and concluded that¶ the key factor driving change in America’s national security environment ¶ over the next 25 years will be the acceleration of scientific discovery and its ¶ technological applications</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and the uneven human social and psychological ¶ capacity to harness them … Synergistic developments in information ¶ technology</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">materials science, biotechnology, and nanotechnology will ¶ almost certainly transform human tools more dramatically and rapidly ¶ than at any time in human history</span>.27<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>The authors added that ‘second only to a weapon of mass destruction <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>detonating in an American city, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we can think of nothing more dangerous than a failure to manage properly science</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">technology, and education ¶ for the common good over the next quarter century’.</span> At the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">core of their concern were declining incentives for qualified people to work in science ¶ and technology education and underperformance of qualified Americans ¶ who were able to work in areas of math, science and engineerin</span>g. The study <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>recommended doubling federal investment in science and technology <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>research and development by 2010, to about $160bn. It emphasised that ‘the <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>American education system needs to produce significantly more scientists <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and engineers, including four times the current number of computer scientists’ and to achieve this ‘more than 240,000 new and qualified science and <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>mathematics teachers are needed in our K–12 [primary and secondary education] classrooms over the next decade (out of a total need for an estimated <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>2.2 million new teachers)’.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>

**Biotech solves food security**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martino-Catt and Sachs ‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Susan J. Martino-Catt, Monsanto Company Member of Plant Physiology Editorial Board, Eric S. Sachs Monsanto Company Member of ASPB Education Foundation Board of Directors, “ Editor's Choice Series: The Next Generation of Biotech Crops,” Plant Physiology 147:3-5 (2008)]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Crop genetic modification</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> using traditional methods </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has been essential for improving food quality and abundance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; however, f</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">armers </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">globally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are steadily increasing the area planted to crops improved with modern biotechnology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Breakthroughs in science and genetics have expanded the toolbox of genes available</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for reducing biotic stressors, such as weeds, pests, and disease, which reduce agricultural productivity. Today, plant scientists are leveraging traditional and modern approaches in tandem to increase crop yields, quality, and economic returns, while reducing the environmental consequences associated with the consumption of natural resources, such as water, land, and fertilizer, for agriculture.</span>¶ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The current need to accelerate agricultural productivity on a global scale has never been greater or more urgent.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the same time, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the need to implement more sustainable approaches to conserve natural resources and preserve native habitats is also of paramount importance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the agricultural sector </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is to:</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">deliver twice as much food in 2050 as is produced today</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Food and Agricultural Organization of the World Health Organization, 2002Go); (2) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reduce environmental impacts by producing more from each unit of land, water, and energy invested in crop production</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Raven, 2008Go); (3) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">adapt cropping systems to climate changes that threaten crop productivity and food security on local and global levels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; and (4) encourage the development of new technologies that deliver economic returns for all farmers, small and large. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These are important and challenging goals, and are much more so when real or perceived risks lead to regulatory and policy actions that may slow the adoption of new technology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Optimistically, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the adoption of rational approaches for introducing new agricultural and food technologies should lead to more widespread use that in turn will help address the agricultural challenges and also increase the acceptance of modern agricultural biotechnology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Raven, 2008Go).</span>¶ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the 12 years since commercialization of the first genetically modified (GM) crop in 1996, farmers have planted more than 690 million hectares (1.7 billion acres; James, 2007Go) without a single confirmed incidence of health or environmental harm (Food and Agricultural Organization of the World Health Organization, 2004Go; National Academy of Sciences, 2004Go). In the latest International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications report, planting of biotech crops in 2007 reached a new record of 114.3 million hectares (282.4 million acres) planted in 23 countries, representing a 12.3% increase in acreage from the previous year (James, 2007Go). Farmer benefits associated with planting of GM crops include reduced use of pesticides and insecticides (Brookes and Barfoot, 2007Go), increased safety for nontarget species (Marvier et al., 2007Go; Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2007Go), increased adoption of reduced/conservation tillage and soil conservation practices (Fawcett and Towry, 2002Go), reduced greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural practices (Brookes and Barfoot, 2007Go), as well as increased yields (Brookes and Barfoot, 2007Go).</span>¶ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The first generation of biotech crops focused primarily on the single gene traits of herbicide tolerance and insect resistance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These traits were accomplished by the expression of a given bacterial gene in the crops. In the case of herbicide tolerance, expression of a glyphosate-resistant form of the gene CP4 EPSPS resulted in plants being tolerant to glyphosate (Padgette et al., 1995Go). Similarly, expression of an insecticidal protein from Bacillus thuringiensis in plants resulted in protection of the plants from damage due to insect feeding (Perlak et al., 1991Go). Both of these early biotech products had well-defined mechanisms of action that led to the desired phenotypes. Additional products soon came to market that coupled both herbicide tolerance and insect resistance in the same plants. As farmers adopt new products to maximize productivity and profitability on the farm, they are increasingly planting crops with "stacked traits" for management of insects and weeds and "pyramided traits" for management of insect resistance. The actual growth in combined trait products was 22% between 2006 and 2007, which is nearly twice the growth rate of overall planting of GM crops (James, 2007Go).</span>¶ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The next generation of biotech crops promises to include a broad range of products that will provide benefits to both farmers and consumers,and continue to meet the global agricultural challenges.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These products will most likely involve regulation of key endogenous plant pathways resulting in improved quantitative traits, such as yield, nitrogen use efficiency, and abiotic stress tolerance (e.g. drought, cold). These quantitative traits are known to typically be multigenic in nature, adding a new level of complexity in describing the mechanisms of action that underlie these phenotypes</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. In addition to these types of traits, the first traits aimed at consumer benefits, such as healthier oils and enhanced nutritional content, will also be developed for commercialization</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>¶ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">As with the first generation, successful delivery of the next generation of biotech crops to market will depend on establishing their food, feed, and environmental safety. Scientific and regulatory authorities have acknowledged the potential risks associated with genetic modification of all kinds, including traditional cross-breeding, biotechnology, chemical mutagenesis, and seed radiation, yet have established a safety assessment framework only for biotechnology-derived crops designed to identify any potential food, feed, and environmental safety risks prior to commercial use. Importantly, it has been concluded that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">crops developed through modern biotechnology do not pose significant risks over and above those associated with conventional plant breeding </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Academy of Sciences, 2004Go). The European Commission (2001)Go acknowledged that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the greater regulatory scrutiny given to biotech crops and foods probably make them even safer than conventional plants and foods</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The current comparative safety assessment process has been repeatedly endorsed as providing assurance of safety and nutritional quality by identifying similarities and differences between the new food or feed crop and a conventional counterpart with a history of safe use (Food and Drug Administration, 1992Go; Food and Agricultural Organization of the World Health Organization, 2002Go; Codex Alimentarius, 2003Go; Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2003Go; European Food Safety Authority, 2004Go; International Life Sciences Institute, 2004Go). Any differences are subjected to an extensive evaluation to determine whether there are any associated health or environmental risks, and, if so, whether the identified risks can be mitigated though preventative management.</span>¶ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Biotech crops undergo detaile</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">d phenotypic, agronomic, morphological, and compositional </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">analyses to identify potential harmful effects that could affect product safety.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This process is a rigorous and robust assessment that is applicable to the next generation of biotech crops that potentially could include genetic changes that modulate the expression of one gene, several genes, or entire pathways. The safety assessment will characterize the nature of the inserted molecules, as well as their function and effect within the plant and the overall safety of the resulting crop. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This well-established and proven process will provide assurance of the safety of the next generation of biotech crops and help to reinforce rational approaches that enable the development and commercial use of new products that are critical to meeting agriculture's challenges. </span>

**Food war causes extinction**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CRIBB 2010</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This is the most likely means by which </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the coming famine will affect all citizens of Earth</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, both </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">through the direct consequences of refugee floods for receiving countries and through the effect on global food prices and the cost to public revenues</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of redressing the problem. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Coupled with this is the risk of wars breaking out over local disputes about food</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, land, and water and the dangers that the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">major military powers may be sucked into these vortices</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, that smaller </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nations newly nuclear-armed may become embroiled, and that shock waves propagated by these conflicts will jar the global economy and disrupt trade, sending food prices into a fresh spiral</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Indeed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">an increasingly credible scenario for World War III is</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not so much a confrontation of superpowers and their allies as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a festering</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, self-perpetuating </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">chain of resource conflicts driven by the widening gap between food</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and energy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">supplies and peoples' need to secure them</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Plan creates a butterfly effect – ONLY way to maintain dominance**
**TAVERNEY and RENDLEMAN 11** - THOMAS D. TAVERNEY<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Major General, U.S. Air Force (Retired), Los Angeles, California<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>JAMES D. RENDLEMAN<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), Colorado Springs, Colorado ( Thomas D. Taverney & James D. Rendleman (2011): Engineering Global<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Leadership, Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 9:2-3, 119-139)bs


Many say, tongue in cheek, that the greatest earthbound outcome from the<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>space program was the development of TangTM. However, //the real ‘‘butterfly¶ effect’’// (i.e., the phenomenon whereby a small change at one place in a complex system can have large effects elsewhere) //of the space program can be¶ found in the engineers and scientists it created and inspired//. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The space community and aerospace industry still develops, acquires, operates, and sustains¶ some of the most sophisticated systems in the world</span>. Its <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">research</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">innovation</span>,<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">engineering triumphs over the past century are a child of a technologically and scientifically superior workforce</span>. The United States is clearly the<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>world leader in technology, science, and innovation. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The engineering successes fuel advances in other fields.</span> Unfortunately, //that leadership is always¶ ephemeral and fleeting if not properly nurtured and sustained.// //If the United¶ States is to remain a global power, it must choose to act decisively and¶ preserve the conditions that made it powerful.// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It will not remain a great¶ power only because it considers itself one</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>So where is the United States going as a nation, what path should it<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>take and where should it be at the turn of the next century? How should<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>the United States invest in STEM capabilities for the current generation?<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>How should it compete globally in space activities? Who and what will<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>provide the next inspiration for the balance of the twenty-first century?<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The country is currently not on a path to achieve continued success. The¶ United States must decide whether it wants to go the way of the Roman¶ Empire, which faded away and collapsed, or strive to sustain its leadership¶ position in the world. Unfortunately, the nature of U.S. political institutions¶ is that their diplomatic, cultural (information), military, and economic leadership tend to act only when confronted by a significant event or challenge. In¶ this way, the G.I. Bill, Sputnik and the Space Age, and the Moon Race served¶ as catalysts for dramatic successes.</span>

**Warming now---broader trends prove---it’ll accelerate**
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Nordhaus, ‘12</span> William D, <span style="font-size: 16pt;">Prof</span>essor of Economics <span style="font-size: 16pt;">@ Yale</span> University, "Why the Global Warming Skeptics Are Wrong" March 2012 www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2012/mar/22/why-global-warming-skeptics-are-wrong/
The first claim is that the planet is not warming. More precisely, “Perhaps the most inconvenient fact is the lack of global warming for well over 10 years now.”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is easy to get lost in the tiniest details here. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most people will benefit from </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">stepping back</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and looking at the record of </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">actual temperature measurements</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The figure below shows data from 1880 to 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on global mean temperature averaged </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">three different sources</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.2 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We do not need any complicated statistical analysis to see that </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">temperatures are rising</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and furthermore that they are </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">higher in the last decade than they were in earlier decades</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the reasons that drawing conclusions on temperature trends is tricky is that the historical temperature series is highly volatile, as can be seen in the figure. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The presence of short-term volatility requires looking at </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">long-term trends</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A useful analogy is the stock market. Suppose an analyst says that because real stock prices have declined over the last decade (which is true), it follows that there is no upward trend. Here again, an examination of the long-term data would quickly show this to be incorrect. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The last decade of temperature and stock market data is not representative of the longer-term trends.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The finding that global temperatures are rising over the last century-plus is one of the most </span><span class="Box">robust findings of climate science and statistics</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A second argument is that warming is smaller than predicted by the models:</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The lack of warming for more than a decade</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">—indeed, the smaller-than-predicted warming over the 22 years since the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) began issuing projections—suggests that computer models have greatly exaggerated how much warming additional CO2 can cause.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">What is the evidence on the performance of climate models? Do they predict the historical trend accurately? Statisticians routinely address this kind of question. The standard approach is to perform an experiment in which (case 1) modelers put the changes in CO2 concentrations and other climate influences in a climate model and estimate the resulting temperature path, and then (case 2) modelers calculate what would happen in the counterfactual situation where the only changes were due to natural sources, for example, the sun and volcanoes, with no human-induced changes. They then compare the actual temperature increases of the model predictions for all sources (case 1) with the predictions for natural sources alone (case 2).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This experiment has been performed many times using climate models. A good example is the analysis described in the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (for the actual figure, see the accompanying online material4). Several modelers ran both cases 1 and 2 described above—one including human-induced changes and one with only natural sources. This </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">experiment showed that the projections of </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">climate models are consistent with recorded temperature trends</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> over recent decades only </span><span class="Box">if human impacts are included.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The divergent trend is especially pronounced after 1980. By 2005, calculations using natural sources alone </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">underpredict the actual temperature increases by about 0.7 degrees</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Centigrade, while the calculations including human sources track the actual temperature trend very closely</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reviewing the results, the IPCC report concluded: “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No climate model using </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">natural forcings</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [i.e., natural warming factors] </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">alone</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has reproduced the observed global warming trend in the second half of the twentieth century.”5</span>
**STEM education key to solving warming**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mejia 9</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – * Employment Services Manager at South Bay Workforce Investment Board, City University of New York-Baruch College (education) [Robert T. Mejia, “What’s Old is New: Green Jobs & What America’s Federal Workforce Investment System Can Do Now to Develop a Green Workforce”, 1/14/09, www.southbayresource.net/articles/whatsoldisnew.pdf, tables, charts, and graphs omitted]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In addition to adaptation, science, technology and innovation may prove to be our greatest allies in the battle to defeat </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">global warming. A number of promising eco-tech solutions to our environmental challenges are starting to emerge; they hinge on further research and development, access to capital, and accommodating government regulations</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Innovations such as Bio-char (a stable and rich charcoal produced from biomass) for carbon sequestration, improved soil fertility, sustainable (carbon-negative) energy production, and poverty reduction; the use of algae as an alternative fuel source; and bioorganisms and nano devices that clean up toxic spills and improve solar technology hold great potential for solving some of the world’s most difficult consumption challenges and contamination problems. Sustained advances and U.S. leadership in environmental technologies, not only in terms of global warming, but in terms of competitiveness, will rely on an expansion of the nation’s knowledge workforce, with a strong emphasis on green-centered science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Sadly, the U.S. lags other developed countries in its preparation of technologists, scientists, engineers and mathematicians. The U.S.’ share of the world’s scientists and engineers is projected to fall from 40 percent in 1975 to 15 percent in 2010.22 This trend must be reversed. As reported by the U.S. Department of Labor on January 15, 2008 in the Federal Register: There is a broad consensus that the long-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">term key to continued U.S. competitiveness</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and growth </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in an increasingly global economic environment is the adequate supply</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of qualified Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">STEM) workers capable of translating knowledge and skills into new processes, products and services</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. According to the National Science Foundation (NSF), scientific innovation has produced roughly half of all U.S. economic growth in the last fifty years and the STEM disciplines, including those who work in them, are critical engines to that innovation and growth--one recent estimate, while only five percent of the U.S. workforce is employed in STEM fields, the STEM workforce accounts for more than fifty percent of the nation’s sustained growth (Babco 2004). The National Academy of Sciences study, Rising Above the Gathering Storm (2006), argues that: Absent a serious and rapid response, the U.S. will lose quality jobs to other nations; lowering our standard of living, reducing tax revenues, and weakening the domestic market for goods and services. Once this cycle accelerates, it will be difficult to regain lost pre-eminence in technology-driven innovation and its economic benefits.23 In Thrive: The Skills Imperative, the Council on Competitiveness states that: Looking ahead, skills for sustainability could become a key competitive differentiator. As Joseph Stanislaw has noted: we are at the very beginning of a global race to create dominant green economies.(42) Global warming and competition for resources could very well change the ground rules of globalization-at the very least, the need to reduce carbon footprints and achieve higher resource productivity could alter corporate calculations about where and how to distribute operations and assets globally. America could get out in front of this paradigm shift. But it is not clear that the United States will have enough talent with the right set of skills, or has even defined the path forward on skills for sustainability.24 To defeat global warming, we must focus on developing both the intellectual and physical infrastructure of our country. A national campaign to promote STEM education in environmental technologies, with strong federal financing of community and public sector organizations to provide career and academic support, will make a difference. </span>

**Warming causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Costello, ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change was set up in 1992 to ensure that nations worked together to minimize the adverse effects, but McMichael and Neira noted that, in preparation for the Copenhagen conference in December 2009, only four of 47 nations mentioned human health as a consideration [1]. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With business as usual, global warming caused by rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will threaten mass populations through increased transmission of some infections, heat stress, food and water insecurity, increased deaths from more frequent and extreme climate events, threats to shelter and security, and through population migration [</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">2]. On the one hand </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is necessary</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the media </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to counter climate change sceptics and denialists</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, but on the other </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is also important not to allow climate catastrophists, who tell us it is all too late, to deflect us from pragmatic and positive action.Catastrophic scenarios are possible in the long</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">er </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">term</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and effective action will be formidably difficult, but evidence suggests that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> do </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have the tools, the time and the resources to bring about the changes needed for climate stability. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">2. Climate change evidence and denial </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given the current body of evidence, it is surprising that global warming and its causal relationship with atmospheric GHG pollution is disputed any more than the relationship between acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or lung cancer and cigarette smoking.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The basic principles that determine the Earth’s temperature are, of course, relatively simple. Some of the short-wave solar radiation that strikes the Earth is reflected back into space and some is absorbed by the land and emitted as long-wave radiation (heat). Some of the long-wave radiation is trapped in the atmosphere by ‘greenhouse gases’, which include water vapour, carbon dioxide and methane. Without GHGs the Earth would be on average 33◦C colder. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over the last 150 years, since the Industrial Revolution, humans have been adding more carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere. The result is that the Earth’s atmosphere, ocean and land are indeed warming—due to increased atmospheric ‘greenhouse gas’ concentrations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [3]. Gleick et al. [4], from the US National Academy of Sciences, wrote a letter to Science stating ‘</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is compelling, comprehensive, and consistent objective evidence that humans are changing the climate in ways that threaten our societies and the ecosystems on which we depend’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) [5], amounting to nearly 3000 pages of detailed review and analysis of published research, also declares that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the scientific uncertainties of global warming are</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> essentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">resolved</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. This report states that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there is clear evidence for a 0.75◦C rise in global temperatures and 22 cm rise in sea level during the twentieth century</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The IPCC synthesis also predicts that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">global temperatures could rise further</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> by between 1.1◦C and 6.4◦C by 2100, and sea level could rise by between 28 and 79 cm, or more if the melting of Greenland and Antarctica accelerates. In addition, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">weather patterns will become less predictable and the occurrence of extreme climate events, such as storms, floods, heat waves and droughts, will increase. There is also strong evidence for ocean acidification driven by more carbon dioxide dissolving in the oceans [6]. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Given the current failure of international negotiations to address carbon emission reductions, and that atmospheric warming lags behind rises in CO2 concentration, there is concern that global surface temperature will rise above the supposedly ‘safe limit’ of 2◦C within this century. Each doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration alone is expected to produce 1.9–4.5◦C of warming at equilibrium [7]. Of course, climate modelling is an extremely complex process, and uncertainty with projections relating to future emissions trajectories means that the time scale and magnitude of future climate change cannot be predicted with certainty [8]. These uncertainties are magnified when future climate predictions are used to estimate potential impacts. For example, the environmental impacts of climate change are also uncertain, but could underestimate such impacts because they detrimentally interact with habitat loss, pollution and loss of biodiversity due to other causes. There is also the additional problem that switching from biome to biome may not be directly reversible. For example, rainforest recycles a huge amount of water so it can survive a significant amount of aridification before it burns and is replaced by savannah. But the region then has to get much wetter before rainforest can return, as there is greatly reduced water cycling in savannah [9]. In the policy arena, further uncertainty surrounds the desire for international agreements on emission cuts, and the possible routes to such agreement and implementation. The feasible speed of technological innovation in carbon capture and provision of renewable/low-carbon energy resources is also uncertain. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Denying the causes or the current weight of evidence for anthropogenic climate change is irrational</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, just as the existence of ‘uncertainties’ should not be used to deny the need for proportionate action, when such </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">uncertainties could underestimate the risks and impact of climate change</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. There is no reason for inaction and there are many ways we can use our current knowledge of climate change to improve health provision for current and future generations. 3. Catastrophism At the other end of the scale are doom-mongers who predict catastrophic population collapse and the end of civilization. In the early nineteenth century, the French palaeontologist Georges Cuvier first addressed catastrophism and explained patterns of extinction observed in the fossil record through catastrophic natural events [10]. We know now of five major extinctions: the Ordovician–Silurian extinction (439 million years ago), the Late Devonian extinction (about 364 million years ago), the Permian–Triassic extinction (about 251 million years ago), the End Triassic extinction (roughly 199 million to 214 million years ago) and the Cretaceous– Tertiary extinction (about 65 million years ago). These mass extinctions were caused by a combination of plate tectonics, supervolcanism and asteroid impacts. The understanding of the mass extinctions led Gould & Eldredge [11] to update Darwin’s theory of evolution with their own theory of punctuated equilibrium. Many scientists have suggested that the current human-induced extinction rates could be as fast as those during these mass extinctions [12,13]. For example, one study predicted that 58 per cent of species may be committed to extinction by 2050 due to climate change alone [14], though this paper has been criticized [15,16]. Some people have even suggested that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">human extinction may not be a remote risk</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [17–19]. Sherwood & Huber [7] point to continued </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">heating effects that could make the world largely uninhabitable by humans</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and mammals within 300 years. Peak heat stress, quantified by the wet-bulb temperature (used because it reflects both the ambient temperature and relative humidity of the site), is surprisingly similar across diverse climates and never exceeds 31◦C. They suggest that if it rose to 35◦C, which never happens now but would at a warming of 7◦C, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hyperthermia in humans and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.</span>

**The Moon is the vital internal link—it also solves asteroid deflection**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Sen. Harrison H. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schmitt, ’10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, should be the focus of national space policy in order to maintain leadership in deep space? Some propose that we concentrate only on Mars. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Without the experience of returning to the Moon, however, we will not have the engineering, operational, or physiological insight for many decades to either fly to Mars or land there</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Others suggest going to an asteroid. As important as diversion of an asteroid from collision with the Earth someday may be, just going there hardly stimulates łScience and the useful Arts˛ anything like a permanent American settlement on the Moon!Other means exist, robots and meteorites, for example, to obtain most or all of the scientific value from a human mission to an asteroid. In any event, returning to the </span><span class="Box">Moon inherently creates capabilities</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for reaching </span><span class="Box">asteroids</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to study or </span><span class="Box">divert</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> them, as the case may be</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Returning to the Moon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to deep space </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">constitutes the right and continuing space policy choice for the Congress of the United States. It compares in significance to Jefferson's dispatch of Lewis and Clark to explore the Louisiana Purchase. The lasting significance to American growth and survival</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of Jefferson's decision </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cannot be questioned</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Human exploration of space embodies the same basic instincts as the exploration of the West ­ the exercise of freedom, betterment of one's conditions, and curiosity about nature. Such instincts lie at the very core of America's unique and special society</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of immigrants.</span>
**Asteroids are inevitable and cause extinction unless we get to the moon**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michi </span>**Kaku, 13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(theoretical physicist, the Henry Semat Professor of Theoretical Physics in the City College of New York of City University of New York, a futurist, and a communicator and popularizer of science, 2/26, “Asteroid Apocalypse”, http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2013/02/25/asteroid-apocalypse-why-scientists-worry-about-2036-planet-buster.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Maybe Chicken Little was right after all.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was an amazing spectacle, a rapid succession of giant asteroids blazing across the sky. First, on February 15, Russia was hit with the biggest asteroid in 100 years. Barely a few hours later, an even bigger one made the closest approach to Earth ever recorded for an asteroid of its size. Then the residents of San Francisco, Cuba, and south Florida looked up and saw meteors streak across the sky, rattling their nerves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was a historic display of nature’s cosmic firepower, something I never expected to see in my lifetime. Mother Nature was showing Hollywood who’s boss.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The city of Chelyabinsk in Russia bore the brunt of the celestial fireworks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A piece of rock, about 50 feet across and weighing more than 7,000 tons, came crashing to Earth.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Traveling at a blinding speed of over 40,000 miles per hour, it created a sonic boom and shock wave that shattered windows across the city: 1,200 people were injured, mainly by the flying pieces of glass, and 52 were hospitalized, 2 of them in serious condition. Chelyabinsk, once known as one of the most polluted places in the world due to its storage of nuclear waste, will now be known as “meteor city.”</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The asteroid packed a huge punch, the power of 20 Hiroshima bombs. It was a “city buster,” capable of flattening a modern metropolis and reducing it to rubble. It was a miracle that the asteroid exploded roughly 10 to 15 miles above ground: had there been a ground burst, it would have caused tens of thousands of casualties. If that asteroid had hit just a few seconds later, it would have created a tragedy on Earth</span>.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While Russia was still reeling from the shock of this meteor impact, just a few hours later, 17,200 miles in space, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">an asteroid three times larger than the Russian one came within a whisker of hitting Earth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Called 2012 DA14, it actually sailed about 5,000 miles closer to Earth than our communications satellites (which orbit at 22,000 miles). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If the asteroid had arrived just a few minutes earlier, it might have hit Earth, with truly cataclysmic consequences</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To see what might have happened in the case of a collision with DA14, one can study the 1908 Tunguska impact, which hit Siberia with the force of 1,000 Hiroshima bombs, giving Earth a black eye. That meteorite was about the same size as DA14, i.e., the size of an apartment building. The energy of the impact was so great that it devastated 830 square miles of Siberia, including 80 million trees. Pictures of the area show millions of trees lying on their sides, as if a giant hand came down and flattened every tree in sight. The impact was so spectacular that the blast was heard hundreds of miles away, and strange lights were seen as far away as Europe.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fortunately, the 1908 and 2013 asteroids that hit Russia missed hitting a major metropolitan area like Moscow. However, because of the similarity with nuclear blasts, one can imagine what might happen if such an object had hit, say, New York</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">First, one would see a blinding flash of light as the asteroid smashed into Earth. Midtown Manhattan would be instantly vaporized by the impact, leaving a crater almost a mile wide. Seconds later, the blast wave would spread out from the crater, toppling all the skyscrapers in the city as if they were made of twigs. Minutes to hours later, there would be a rain of fiery meteors falling from the sky, created by debris blown out of the original crater. Then, for hours and days, firestorms would incinerate an area roughly 30 miles from the impact site. Large swaths of Long Island, Connecticut, Westchester County, and New Jersey would be set on fire. At Hiroshima, about 100,000 people died in the opening phase of the blast. An asteroid impact could have casualties numbering in the millions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All this sounds like overheated science fiction, but the reality is actually much worse. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lurking in space are asteroids even bigger than the city busters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—to wit, “nation busters” big enough to destroy Germany or England. The most dangerous one is called Apophis, which is 1,000 feet across and will come dangerously close to Earth in 2029 and again in 2036. The most recent calculations show that Apophis will barely miss Earth in 2029, but will actually graze our atmosphere. But because of the uncertainty of its path as it whizzes past, there is a small possibility that its orbit may be perturbed so it might actually hit Earth in 2036. NASA scientists are reasonably confident it will still miss Earth in 2036, but the head of the Russian space agency takes the threat of a collision seriously, stating that we have to prepare for the worst. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If Apophis hits Earth, it would have the force of approximately 20,000 Hiroshima bombs.</span>
//But of all the threats that face the planet, only one can actually destroy all life on Earth in almost an instant, and this is a “planet buster.”// An object several miles across has enough energy to kill everything on Earth.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most famous planet killer is the asteroid or comet that plowed into the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico 65 million years ago, creating a crater about 110 miles in diameter. The impact created a huge tsunami and firestorms that raged throughout the Caribbean and North and South America. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The impact was so great that the dirt and debris sent into the atmosphere cut off the sun, darkening Earth until temperatures plunged around the world, eventually killing off the dinosaurs.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Some scientists have proposed a rival theory, that volcanic activity near India at around that time might have blackened the skies and killed off the dinosaurs. But other scientists have proposed yet another theory, that perhaps </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the impact was so great that a shock wave went through Earth and blew out the crust on the other side, creating the volcanic activity in India.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In this scenario, the dinosaurs were killed by a one-two punch caused by the original impact.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, as frightening as these scenarios are, these big impacts are extremely rare. Small meteors are actually quite common, but a city buster might hit Earth on a time scale of once every several centuries. A nation buster might hit once every few hundred thousand years. And a planet buster might hit once every few tens of millions of years. But we are clueless to say precisely when the next impact might be. </span>//We are playing Russian roulette with the planet.//
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">How real is this threat? It’s sobering to realize that we live in the middle of a cosmic shooting gallery. There are about a million asteroids that orbit near the path of Earth. Of these, NASA estimated in 2007 that perhaps 20,000 can one day pose a direct threat to Earth.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These asteroids have passed by Earth since the dawn of humanity, yet we were blissfully unaware of them. Many asteroids would land in the oceans or in uninhabited areas, where there was no one to record the impact. Today our instruments are revealing how frequent near misses really are, and the results are deeply disturbing.</span>
What can be done about them?
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sadly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">at present we are sitting ducks. We have no systematic way of detecting these objects, let alone destroying one. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Basically, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we depend on amateurs as our first line of defense to find these threats</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These hobbyists brave the cold every night in hopes of capturing a comet or asteroid in their telescopes. (Only recently have computerized telescopes in Hawaii and the Southwest joined forces with them.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Basically, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we are defenseless.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So it is a no-brainer that our first goal should be to build an early-warning system, a space telescope specifically designed to spot asteroids smaller than a football field. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This could be done with off-the-shelf technology and would cost only a few hundred million dollars, which is pocket change</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> compared with a typical space mission. (Just one space-shuttle launch could cost upwards of $800 million.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With this space telescope, scientists could give a realistic estimate of the true threat posed by these asteroids and identify a handful that might actually hit Earth in the coming decades. Unfortunately, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">every time scientists present this proposal to politicians, they treat us as if we are space cadets. The “giggle factor” is one reason why this proposal has never been taken seriously by Congress. But perhaps the latest Chelyabinsk meteor is a game changer.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, if, one day, the space telescope actually finds an asteroid with our name on it, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there is little we can do with present-day technology.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Forget movies like Deep Impact and Armageddon. The space shuttle has been canceled, and moreover, it was never designed to leave Earth’s orbit and go into deep space. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An entirely new booster rocket would have to be designed to meet this threat.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama, canceling the shuttle and the manned mission to the moon and Mars, left open the possibility of one day landing on an asteroid. To lay the groundwork for this mission, NASA plans to launch a probe in 2016 that will eventually intercept an asteroid and in 2023 return a sample back to Earth. If this paves the way for a manned mission, it could be refocused to intercept and eventually deflect an asteroid.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Numerous proposals have been made. The obvious one of blowing up the asteroid with H-bombs might be a bad idea, since it would only create a fleet of baby asteroids—which would, in turn, do more damage than a single asteroid. A more realistic possibility is to land on the asteroid, put a rocket on it, and then gently push the asteroid out of its trajectory by firing the rocket. Even a gentle push, if done when the asteroid is in deep space, could nudge it off of its Earth-killing course.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, Bruce Willis, watch out!</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Other possibilities include using the gravity field of the rocket to tug on the asteroid so it is deflected. Yet another possibility is to detonate an H-bomb a safe distance away, so the blast wave pushes the asteroid out of its path.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is inevitable that one day we will be hit, and hit hard. It’s not a matter of if, it’s a matter of when. We realize this every time we see</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the pockmarked surface of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the moon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Unfortunately, without an early-warning system, we don’t know when such an impact might take place.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although deflecting a killer asteroid will not be cheap, consider it an insurance policy. There is a historical lesson here. The dinosaurs did not have a space program. That is why we are here and they are not. But without a robust space program, are we next</span>?




===1AC - Solvency=== 
**The Aff is Transportation Infrastructure, the tech is feasible, and only Federal investment in a Public Private Partnership can create sustainable solvency**
**Woodcock and Smitherman 12** (<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>David Smitherman<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>1<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, ED04, Huntsville, Alabama, 35802, U.S.A.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Gordon Woodcock<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Gray Research, Engineering, Science, and Technical Services Contract, “Space Transportation Infrastructure Supported By <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Propellant Depots”, http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20120001435_2012001131.pdf)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The development of this space transportation system based on propellant depots can be phased in over time so </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that the infrastructure can be put in place within constrained budgets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is an important feature with historic </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> precedence. In examining the NASA budget</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 5d</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the Apollo Program it is notable that it grew to ~$33B during </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the peak of development in the mid-1960’s and then dropped to a third of that amount, ~11B, by the end of the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program in the mid-1970’s. The International Space Station program shows no substantial budget peak during its </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> development in the 1990’s and 2000’s because it was broken into segments and developed and assembled in space </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> incrementally over nearly two decades. The NASA budget grew, but at a steady pace from ~$13B to ~$15B during </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that time period. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The apparent problem with the Constellation Program was that two new launch vehicles and all the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> payloads that would fly on them had to be developed nearly simultaneously similar to the Apollo Program </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> experience causing a peak in a flat budget environment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The depot-based transportation infrastructure described in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> this paper does not have to be developed all at once to succeed.It can be developed incrementally, starting in LEO, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and then expanding to L1, the Moon, and then Mars as time and budgets permit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The largest part of the recurring cost for the depot-based infrastructure is the propellant launches required to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> support the reusable in-space vehicles. The propellant and launch vehicles, being the most massive and expensive </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> elements in the infrastructure, can be supported by any commercially available launch vehicle. The attractive </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> features of this delivery approach is that it increases US production of existing launch vehicle systems, it reduces </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> sole source procurements, it promotes competitive bidding, and it generates a higher flight rate which will stimulate </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a demand for the development of new reusable launch vehicle systems.Another recurring cost that the Apollo </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Program faced as did the Constellation Program was generated from the lack of reusability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Everything was </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> expendable and had to be reproduced for each mission. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most of the in-space </span>//transportation infrastructure//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> proposed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in this paper is reusable for many missions because the transportation elements are serviced by the depot </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> infrastructure elements</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These features should have a significant long-term impact for reducing space transportation </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> cost, maintaining steady budgets, and making the overall infrastructure safe and affordable.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another attractive feature of the depot infrastructure is the multi-mission, multi-use capabilities that this </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> transportation system offers.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For example, while lunar missions are ongoing using the LEO and L1 Depots it will be </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possible to plan and execute satellite servicing out of the LEO Depot, and ESL2, Asteroid, and Mars missions out of </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the L1 Depot. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This multi-mission infrastructure approach should realize a significant boost to exploration and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> commercial missions with significant cost savings over time because multiple government and commercial missions </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> can operate simultaneously</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This was a significant problem with the Apollo and Constellation architectures because </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they were single purpose systems designed for lunar exploration and eventual Mars transportation without any </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> commercial opportunities or simultaneous multi-mission capabilities. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Propellant depots can work well with heavy-lift launch vehicles too when there is a real need for larger payloads </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with larger propellant requirements. This could be a capability that should be explored further for Mars missions </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where the reference missions above in Figures 12 and 15 require 14 to 21 Delta IV Heavy launches per mission. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Future SEP vehicles can also help with the number of launches by reducing the propellant requirements for transfer </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of propellant and payloads between LEO and L1, and between L1 and Mars destinations. Small electric thrusters or </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> SEP systems were included in the propellant calculations for all the depot station keeping required for the scenarios </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> described in this paper, but the larger SEP systems for orbit transfer of large payloads were not considered. Another </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aspect that can result from this infrastructure is in the development of new reusable vehicle technologies. An </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> infrastructure like this that emphasizes the development of reusable in-space vehicles and creates a significant </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> market for a variety of launch vehicles should have a significant impact on the commercial development of reusable </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launch vehicles too.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The primary developer of this infrastructure is undefined and an overall cost analysis has not been performed for </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this transportation system. The intent of this study was to stay focused on a technically feasible approach that could </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then be used by others to explore methods for economic viability</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. It seems unlikely that NASA could develop this </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> type of infrastructure when the Agency is science, exploration, and technology focused by law and the infrastructure </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is designed to support both exploration and commercial activities. Also, when cost are applied to all the new </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> reusable systems to be developed, it may be found that NASA cannot afford everything within a reasonable amount </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of time even though incremental development is part of the plan. It seems unlikely that the commercial sector can </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> afford this kind of development either because it is an inherently large and complex infrastructure with high upfront </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> cost that would be difficult to recoup within a reasonable amount of time. There have been many types of quasigovernment/industry organizations proposed in the past for large space system developments that should probably be considered.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some type of new organization that can formulate, manage, and stimulate the development of space </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is probably needed. International seaport and airport developments might be analogs to consider. For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> LEO and L1 depots could be considered airports in space, or Orbital Spaceports</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The facilities would be developed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and maintained through new organizations </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">supported by both government and private investments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Fees and taxes </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would be levied, standards would be developed, regulations put in place, flight operations established, and new </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> organizations developed to manage the complexities of the overall infrastructure. There may be many other </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> development and organizational models to consider too.</span>

**FEDERAL INVESTMENT IS KEY TO INVESTOR CONFIDENCE AND INTERNATIONAL PRESTIGE**
**KISTLER AND CITRON 7** (Walter P. Kistler<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>1<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and Bob Citron.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>2<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Lunar Transportation Systems, Inc. Bellevue, Washington 98004 USA<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Tom Taylor<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>3<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Lunar Transportation Systems, Inc. Las Cruces, New Mexico 88011 USA, Lunar Commercial Logistics Transportation, Rutgers Symposium on Lunar Settlements, 3-8 June 2007 Page 1 of 17, http://www.lunarbase.rutgers.edu/papers/Taylor_paper.pdf)

Conclusion<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commercial operations on the moon’s surface can happen and will happen sooner or later.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 22</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lunar</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> commerce can emerge in parallel with the President’s Space Exploration vision, if government is prepare to join</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with commercial organizations to explore and implement realistic cooperative ventures benefiting both sides.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Public Private Partnership</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may be the method of cooperation between government and commercial</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> organizations, because both sides can benefit. </span>//Before private money flows into exploration activities, investors////<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>// //need to see an open ended “Financial Home Run”//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> much the way big oil developed Prudhoe Bay Oil field.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Figure 2 depicts one method of mining and recovering lunar resources leading to the recovery of resources from</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the moon. Figure 2 depicts a University of Wisconsin-Madison research concept</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for recovering the lunar</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regolith by heating it to drive off the volatiles and recovering those volatiles for further processing and use in</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> propellant sales and for use on the surface of the moon. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The recovered products can be near term consumables</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for the lunar outpost and later the propellants NASA requires to go to Mars and beyond</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The regolith is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> excavated, continuously conveyed into the machine and heated to drive off the volatiles for recovery with the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> processed regolith returned to the surface and/or made into products for use on the moon.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Figure 3 suggests a Public Private Partnership to stimulate private money flow into the recovery of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> resources. It is too early to predict the cost savings resulting from the use of lunar propellant, but for our</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> company such production, once in place, could provide a 60% reduction in our operations cost, because</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> propellant is a large part of the operations cost. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lunar Transportation Systems, Inc. is prepared to work with</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> resource development organizations, willing to be the first customer for lunar produced propellant and abandon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our vehicles on the surface to stimulate their reuse in surface facility cost reductions. Sharing the transportation </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> from Earth to LEO with government may be the first step in cooperating on a large scale within a Public Private</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Partnership providing the underpinning of sustainable commerce supported by private investment.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Remote resource recovery bases on Earth have been on the leading edge of mankind’s quest for resources on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our planet and as we as humans move beyond our planet; resource development is still a major driving force</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> providing the economic and political sustainability for continued exploration.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//The development of the moon is like the North Pole. Early explores want to plant the flag and gain prestige//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When commercial developers came to the Arctic some 50 years later, they were interested in profits thru </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> resource development and recovery. They also brought $20B in private risk capital in the 1970s and after</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finding 18 other oil fields they have invested several hundred addition billions, because that later money comes</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> out of profits.</span>

=Round 2= 

==Strat== 

1NC:
T-Water
Privatization CP
Immigration Politics DA
Gender K

2NR:
Gender K

==1NC K== 

Economic securitization sanctions international intervention and masculine notions of the “extracting value” from lesser bodies
**Neocleous 8** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Critique of Security</span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, p95-]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In other words, the new international order ... of the security strategy proposed.111</span>

These discourses are inherently masculine which creates both overt nuclear destruction and structural violence – vote negative to adapt the position of a feminist separatist – only divorcing from the dominant culture can reflect back social change
**Weedon 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, the Chair of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University, Feminism, theory, and the politics of difference, p. 90-93)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the order of reason which has governed Western thought since the rise of Ancient Greek philosophy, </span>__feminine otherness is denied and reconstituted as a male-defined ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their imaginary, nor their language can exist. (1994: 106; original 1989)</span>

=Round 3= 

Same exact 1ac as round 1

=Round 4= 

vs. gas tax

1NC:
Extra T
TI PIC
Localvore DA
Gender K
Immigration DA

2NR:
Gender K



=Round 5= 

vs. stratford metaphors aff

1NC:
Framework
Gender K
State PIC
Language Impact Turns

2NR:
Framework

=Round 6= 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC – Industrial Base </span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">High launch costs inhibit commercial space development</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coppersmith, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle flights this year, as intended by President Bush, and the cancellation of the overcost and overweight Constellation program, are the promising initiatives to develop and deploy new generations of technology. At the core of the president’s proposed revamping of NASA is the focus on new technologies to reduce the cost and complexity of operating in space. NASA will restart its Institute for Advanced Concepts, eliminated in 2007 to help pay for Constellation cost overruns. Chief technologist Robert D. Braun will head the new Space Technology Program, which will offer research grants to encourage innovative ideas. These steps will revitalize the private, academic, and NASA technology base. The chief flaw of the president’s proposals is they do not address the key constraint limiting human and robotic exploration and exploitation of space, the high cost of reaching orbit. When I fly domestically, I pay about $2 per pound of me for a ticket. To launch a satellite into orbit costs roughly $10,000 a pound. Until that cost dramatically drops, the promise of the final frontier will remain only a promise. These high launch costs restrict access to space to those governments and corporations that can afford tens of millions of dollars to launch a satellite. Consequently, the annual total of all payloads is only a few hundred tons, the equivalent of two 747 freighter flights. The great expense to reach orbit has not only hindered past exploration, but will also restrict the future if unchanged. Imagine how many more businesses would experiment and develop applications in space if the cost of launching a satellite was only in the hundreds of thousands instead of tens of millions of dollars. Making access to space affordable will create vast economic as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Autino, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Patrick and Adriano, Life and Environmental Science, Azabu University and Andromeda, Inc., “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been unequal access to resources. People ﬁght to control the valuable resources on and under the land, and in and under the sea. The natural resources of Earth are limited in quantity, and economically accessible resources even more so. As the population grows, and demand grows for a higher material standard of living, industrial activity grows exponentially. The threat of resources becoming scarce has led to the concept of ‘‘Resource Wars’’. Having begun long ago with wars to control the gold and diamonds of Africa and South America, and oil in the Middle East, the current phase is at centre stage of world events today [37]. A particular danger of ‘‘resource wars’’ is that, if the general public can be persuaded to support them, they may become impossible to stop as resources become increasingly scarce. Many commentators have noted the similarity of the language of US and UK government advocates of ‘‘war on terror’’ to the language of the novel ‘‘1984’’ which describes a dystopian future of endless, fraudulent war in which citizens are reduced to slaves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7.1. Expansion into near-Earth space is the only alternative to endless ‘‘resource wars’’</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As an alternative to the ‘‘resource wars’’ already devastating many countries today, opening access to the unlimited resources of near-Earth space could clearly facilitate world peace and security. The US National Security Space Ofﬁce, at the start of its report on the potential of space-based solar power (SSP) published in early 2007, stated: ‘‘Expanding human populations and declining natural resources are potential sources of local and strategic conﬂict in the 21st Century, and many see energy as the foremost threat to national security’’ [38]. The report ended by encouraging urgent research on the feasibility of SSP: ‘‘Considering the timescales that are involved, and the exponential growth of population and resource pressures within that same strategic period, it is imperative that this work for ‘‘drilling up’’ vs. drilling down for energy security begins immediately’’ [38].</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources on a substantial scale may still be some decades away, it is important to recognise that simply acknowledging its feasibility using known technology is the surest way of ending the threat of resource wars. That is, if it is assumed that the resources available for human use are limited to those on Earth, then it can be argued that resource wars are inescapable [22,37]. If, by contrast, it is assumed that the resources of space are economically accessible, this not only eliminates the need for resource wars, it can also preserve the beneﬁts of civilisation which are being eroded today by ‘‘resource war-mongers’’, most notably the governments of the ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries and their ‘‘neo-con’’ advisers. It is also worth noting that the $1 trillion that these have already committed to wars in the Middle-East in the 21st century is orders of magnitude more than the public investment needed to aid companies sufﬁciently to start the commercial use of space resources.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Industrial and ﬁnancial groups which proﬁt from monopolistic control of terrestrial supplies of various natural resources, like those which proﬁt from wars, have an economic interest in protecting their proﬁtable situation. However, these groups’ continuing proﬁts are justiﬁed neither by capitalism nor by democracy: they could be preserved only by maintaining the pretence that use of space resources is not feasible, and by preventing the development of low-cost space travel. Once the feasibility of low-cost space travel is understood, ‘‘resource wars’’ are clearly foolish as well as tragic. A visiting extra-terrestrial would be pityingly amused at the foolish antics of homo sapiens using longrange rockets to ﬁght each other over dwindling terrestrial resources—rather than using the same rockets to travel in space and have the use of all the resources they need!</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Investment in low-cost orbital access and other space infrastructure will facilitate the establishment of settlements on the Moon, Mars, asteroids and in man-made space structures. In the ﬁrst phase, development of new regulatory infrastructure in various Earth orbits, including property/usufruct rights, real estate, mortgage ﬁnancing and insurance, trafﬁc management, pilotage, policing and other services will enable the population living in Earth orbits to grow very large. Such activities aimed at making near-Earth space habitable are the logical extension of humans’ historical spread over the surface of the Earth. As trade spreads through near-Earth space, settlements are likely to follow, of which the inhabitants will add to the wealth of different cultures which humans have created in the many different environments in which they live.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Success of such extra-terrestrial settlements will have the additional beneﬁt of reducing the danger of human extinction due to planet-wide or cosmic accidents [27]. These horrors include both man-made disasters such as nuclear war, plagues or growing pollution, and natural disasters such as super-volcanoes or asteroid impact. It is hard to think of any objective that is more important than preserving peace. Weapons developed in recent decades are so destructive, and have such horriﬁc, long-term side-effects that their use should be discouraged as strongly as possible by the international community. Hence, reducing the incentive to use these weapons by rapidly developing the ability to use space-based resources on a large scale is surely equally important [11,16]. The achievement of this depends on low space travel costs which, at the present time, appear to be achievable only through the development of a vigorous space tourism industry.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As discussed above, if space travel services had started during the 1950s, the space industry would be enormously more developed than it is today. Hence the failure to develop passenger space travel has seriously distorted the path taken by humans’ technological and economic development since WW2, away from the path which would have been followed if capitalism and democracy operated as intended. Technological know-how which could have been used to supply services which are known to be very popular with a large proportion of the population has not been used for that purpose, while waste and suffering due to the unemployment and environmental damage caused by the resulting lack of new industrial opportunities have increased.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In response, policies should be implemented urgently to correct this error, and to catch up with the possibilities for industrial and economic growth that have been ignored for so long. This policy renewal is urgent because of the growing dangers of unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental pollution, educational and cultural decline, resource wars and loss of civil liberties which face civilisation today. In order to achieve the necessary progress there is a particular need for collaboration between those working in the two ﬁelds of civil aviation and civil space. Although the word ‘‘aerospace’’ is widely used, it is largely a misnomer since these two ﬁelds are in practice quite separate. True ‘‘aerospace’’ collaboration to realise passenger space travel will develop the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8.1. Heaven or hell on Earth?</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As discussed above, the claim that the Earth’s resources are running out is used to justify wars which may never end: present-day rhetoric about ‘‘the long war’’ or ‘‘100 years war’’ in Iraq and Afghanistan are current examples. If political leaders do not change their viewpoint, the recent aggression by the rich ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries, and their cutting back of traditional civil liberties, are ominous for the future. However, this ‘‘hellish’’ vision of endless war is based on an assumption about a single number—the future cost of travel to orbit—about which a different assumption leads to a ‘‘heavenly’’ vision of peace and ever-rising living standards for everyone. If this cost stays above 10,000 Euros/kg, where it has been unchanged for nearly 50 years, the prospects for humanity are bleak. But if humans make the necessary effort, and use the tiny amount of resources needed to develop vehicles for passenger space travel, then this cost will fall to 100 Euros/kg, the use of extra-terrestrial resources will become economic, and arguments for resource wars will evaporate entirely. The main reason why this has not yet happened seems to be lack of understanding of the myriad opportunities by investors and policy-makers. Now that the potential to catch up half a century of delay in the growth of space travel is becoming understood, continuing to spend 20 billion Euro-equivalents/year on government space activities, while continuing to invest nothing in developing passenger space travel, would be a gross failure of economic policy, and strongly contrary to the economic and social interests of the public. Correcting this error, even after such a costly delay, will ameliorate many problems in the world today.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As this policy error is corrected, and investment in proﬁtable space projects grows rapidly in coming years, we can look forward to a growing world-wide boom. Viewed as a whole, humans’ industrial activities have been seriously underperforming for decades, due to the failure to exploit these immensely promising ﬁelds of activity. The tens of thousands of unemployed space engineers in Russia, America and Europe alone are a huge waste. The potential manpower in rapidly developing India and China is clearly vast. The hundreds of millions of disappointed young people who have been taught that they cannot travel in space are another enormous wasted resource.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We do not know for certain when the above scenario will be realised. However, it could have such enormous value that considerable expenditure is justiﬁed in order to study its feasibility in detail [5]. At the very least, vigorous investment by both private and public sectors in a range of different sub-orbital passenger vehicle projects and related businesses is highly desirable. Fortunately, the ambitious and rapid investment by the Indian and Chinese governments in growing space capabilities may ﬁnally jolt the space industries of Russia, America, Europe and Japan out of their long economic stagnation, and induce them to apply their accumulated know-how to economically valuable activities—notably supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">K2 cost reduction – independtly stimulates the commercial markerts </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Woodcock and Smitherman 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (¶ David Smitherman¶ 1¶ NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, ED04, Huntsville, Alabama, 35802, U.S.A.¶ and¶ Gordon Woodcock¶ Gray Research, Engineering, Science, and Technical Services Contract, “Space Transportation Infrastructure Supported By ¶ Propellant Depots”, http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20120001435_2012001131.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The largest part of the recurring cost for the depot-based infrastructure is the propellant launches required to ¶ support the reusable in-space vehicles. The propellant and launch vehicles, being the most massive and expensive ¶ elements in the infrastructure, can be supported by any commercially available launch vehicle. The attractive ¶ features of this delivery approach is that it increases US production of existing launch vehicle systems, it reduces ¶ sole source procurements, it promotes competitive bidding, and it generates a higher flight rate which will stimulate ¶ a demand for the development of new reusable launch vehicle systems. Another recurring cost that the Apollo ¶ Program faced as did the Constellation Program was generated from the lack of reusability. Everything was ¶ expendable and had to be reproduced for each mission. Most of the in-space transportation infrastructure proposed ¶ in this paper is reusable for many missions because the transportation elements are serviced by the depot ¶ infrastructure elements. These features should have a significant long-term impact for reducing space transportation ¶ cost, maintaining steady budgets, and making the overall infrastructure safe and affordable. ¶ Another attractive feature of the depot infrastructure is the multi-mission, multi-use capabilities that this ¶ transportation system offers. For example, while lunar missions are ongoing using the LEO and L1 Depots it will be ¶ possible to plan and execute satellite servicing out of the LEO Depot, and ESL2, Asteroid, and Mars missions out of ¶ the L1 Depot. This multi-mission infrastructure approach should realize a significant boost to exploration and ¶ commercial missions with significant cost savings over time because multiple government and commercial missions ¶ can operate simultaneously. This was a significant problem with the Apollo and Constellation architectures because ¶ they were single purpose systems designed for lunar exploration and eventual Mars transportation without any ¶ commercial opportunities or simultaneous multi-mission capabilities.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depots would be an effective alternative to the SLS—solve launch costs</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gasser 9/24</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Andrew, retired from the Air Force after a 20-year career, co-atuhored with a 35-year veteran aerospace engineer with almost 30 years in advanced programs defining launch and exploration architectures, October 24, 2011, “Propellant depots: the fiscally responsible and feasible alternative to SLS”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1955/1]], ZBurdette)</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The Human Space Flight (HSF) portion of NASA’s budget is consumed by the Space Launch System (SLS). We recognize that by the time SLS flies—if it does, in fact, fly—its estimated cost is well over $18 billion. We must ask ourselves, “is there a better way to perform HSF in America?” We contend there is a better way that is not only fiscally responsible, but also relies heavily upon the free market.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Many inside NASA have quietly pushed for HSF exploration utilizing an architecture of our current roster of Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicles (EELVs) and propellant depots. In fact, former NASA administrator Mike Griffin called propellant depots “the holy grail of deep-space exploration” in testimony before the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee last month during a hearing about future human space flight plans. While many NASA insiders and pundits have claimed that there were studies that showed propellant depots were scientifically possible and a better choice economically, NASA leadership has claimed that they have not seen such evidence. If NASA leadership has not seen the studies on propellant depots, then who is burying the studies like the one that was leaked to NASA Watch on October 12th? We have known about this study for some time and believe that propellant depots are not only scientifically feasible but also that such an approach is the fiscally responsible option for America to regain its lead in HSF exploration.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Griffin, though, is skeptical about using propellant depots, based on last month’s testimony. On heavy-lift, he stated, “Because of economies of scale inherent to the design of launch vehicles, the cost-per-pound of payload to orbit nearly always improves with increasing launch vehicle size. Thus, a heavy-lift vehicle should be designed to be as large as possible within the constraints of the facilities and infrastructure available to build and transport it. This provides the greatest marginal capability at the lowest marginal cost.” While his statement is true based on price trends for Atlas V, Delta IV, and Falcon launch vehicles, the largest vehicles do not provide the lowest cost-per-pound to orbit. Two launch vehicles defined by NASA’s Human Exploration Framework Team (HEFT) had an estimated cost-per-pound to orbit between $8,000 and $11,000 for payloads of 154,000 and 220,000 pounds (70,000 and 100,000 kilograms); the Atlas V and Delta IV families’ price-per-pound to orbit ranges between $5,000 and $9,000 for launch capacity between 22,000 and 55,000 pounds (10,000 and 25,000 kilograms); and posted launch prices Space Exploration Technologies’ (SpaceX) Falcon launch vehicles are $1,000 and $3,000 per pound for 23,000 and 117,000 pounds (10,400 and 53,000 kilograms) payload capacity. Atlas V, Delta IV, and Falcon 9 vehicles are currently in operation while the Falcon Heavy is in development; the two HEFT vehicles, by contrast, are purely conceptual. Estimates for Ares 5 launch cost ranged from $540 million to $1.5 billion to place 280,000 pounds (127,000 kilograms) in LEO, or $2,000 to $5,400 per pound.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> When discussing fuel depots and launch cost, Mike Griffin goes on to say, “Ares 5 offers the lowest cost-per-pound for payload to orbit of any presently known launch vehicle design.” Clearly the values above do not support his claim as existing launch vehicles have costs-per-pound between $3,000 and $9,000 while the conceptual Ares 5 and HEFT launch vehicles have estimated costs between $2,000 and $11,000 per pound to orbit.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> In 2005, shortly after the Exploration Systems Architecture Study was released, Griffin, speaking at an American Astronautical Society meeting in Houston, said that on-orbit propellant was worth $10,000 per kilogram ($4,550 per pound) to NASA. This value is close to the Delta IV Heavy cost per pound to orbit and, one can infer, the expected cost per pound to orbit for Ares 5. At the same time posted launch prices for SpaceX Falcon vehicles were approximately $4,000 per kilogram ($1,814 per pound), significantly less than the stated value of on-orbit fuel.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Estimated launch costs for NASA’s Ares 5 and HEFT vehicles are based on two to four missions to the Moon per year. Atlas V, Delta IV, and Falcon 9 costs reflect launch rates between three (Delta IV) and eight (Falcon 9) per year. Using existing rockets for exploration missions with the two vehicle masses each less than 25,000 kilograms and with over 150,000 kilograms of fuel required per mission would add at least 16 flights to the current manifest for two missions per year. Increasing the launch rate of existing systems can significantly reduce launch cost, especially as rates grow from 1 to 50 per year as shown by Gstattenbauer, Franke, and Livingston in their paper, “Cost Comparison of Expendable, Hybrid, and Reusable Launch Vehicles,” AIAA-2006-7211-801, presented at the AIAA Space 2006 Conference in San Jose, California.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Griffin’s testimony also included the following statement: “Further, a fuel depot requires a presently non-existent technology – the ability to maintain cryogenic fuels in the necessary thermodynamic state for very long periods in space.” While it is true the required technologies have not yet been flown in space, they have been developed, ground-tested, and are ready for space flight tests. In addition, their performance characteristics have been incorporated into upper stage and depot design concepts indicating cryogenic propellants can be maintained in the appropriate thermodynamic state for over a year with zero oxygen boil-off and less than 0.05% per day boil-off of the initial hydrogen mass. By incorporating cryocoolers (cryogenic refrigeration units), it may be possible to eliminate hydrogen boil-off as well. To mature these technologies and make them available for exploration missions, NASA is currently funding four contractors to define an appropriate cryogenic propellant storage and transfer technology demonstration mission with a target launch date in 2016.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> While not addressed by Griffin in his testimony, one typically hears that including fuel depots in exploration missions significantly decreases the probability of mission success since, as the logic goes, the more launches one needs to conduct a mission the less likely it is they will all be successful. Typical launch reliability is around 98%. Therefore, if a mission requires one launch, the probability of having a successful launch is 0.98. If a mission requires 5 launches, then the probability that all five launches will be successful is 0.90 (0.98 x 0.98 x 0.98 x 0.98 x 0.98); for 12 launches, the probability of successfully launching all payloads would be 0.785. But, if fuel transfer is used to conduct that same mission using two hardware launches and 10 fuel launches, the probability of all launches being successful would be 0.71, if and only if, the hardware is launched first followed by 10 sequential launches transferring fuel directly from the fuel tanker into the departure stage. This assumes all launches have a probability of success of 0.98 and the probability of successful fuel transfer is 0.99.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> On the other hand, with a depot, fuel can be launched first followed by mission hardware launch, propellant transfer, and departure. This changes the probability of mission success to the probability of successful hardware launch times the probability of having sufficient fuel on hand times the probability of successfully transferring fuel from the depot to the departure stage. If the probability of successful transfer (docking, transferring, undocking) is 0.99 and only 10 launches are scheduled to provide the required 10 fuel loads, the probability of mission success is 0.701 (0.98 x 0.98 x (0.98 x 0.99)10 x 0.99). However, the probability getting all mission hardware loaded with required propellant can approach 0.95 (0.98 x 0.98 x 0.99 x 0.99996) where 0.99996 is the probability of having 10 or more successful propellant launches and transfers into the depot out of 14 scheduled.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The NASA Ares 5 and HEFT 70 t and 100 t launch vehicle concepts have a higher estimated cost per pound to LEO than existing launch vehicles. Adding additional capability to existing launch vehicles may provide lower marginal cost per increased capability but it does necessarily mean large launch vehicles offer the lowest cost per pound to orbit. Technologies for storing and transferring cryogenic propellants in a low Earth orbit fuel depot exist, have been developed and tested in the lab, and are ready for a planned demonstration space mission in 2016. Conducting exploration missions with fuel depots and smaller launch vehicles offer similar probabilities of launch success as using two or three large launch vehicles and can drive down launch costs as rates increase as well as offering increased flexibility and lower cost per launch failure.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> NASA cannot accurately predict the future flight rate of the SLS or its infrastructure cost. Currently there are only two planned flights for SLS, one in December 2017 and one in 2021. SLS will use many of the now-inefficient system processes used for shuttle. This is not a personal attack on the brilliant men and women who supported shuttle. This is just simply pointing out the bureaucracy that has not allowed NASA to innovate processes and systems in operations in the same fashion as the private sector.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> It is fair to say that SLS will have similar costs to shuttle for infrastructure. If we believe Griffin’s testimony, the shuttle infrastructure costs $2.3 billion a year for the first launch and $300 million for each subsequent launch. This economic model is a fiscally irresponsible position to take in our current political climate. Expending billions of dollars and human resources for infrastructure will limit the exploration and settlement capabilities of the United States.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Depots allow NASA to use existing EELV integration and launch infrastructure that is considerably less expensive. This savings could then be passed on to do other things, like develop a lunar lander or a nuclear propulsion module, both of which are unfunded and off the radar with the SLS option. This is a win/win/win scenario that everyone should get behind.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> NASA wins: They get a modular architecture that allows customization. However, NASA should not fall into the paradigm that depots can only be used for HSF. Depots can be used for science missions as well. NASA can also divert more money to programs that are subjected to SLS pressures. At the September hearing everyone acknowledged that our commercial crew partners would be the first to return Americans to space. At that same hearing former astronaut Gene Cernan stated that America would need nuclear propulsion to go to Mars. Propellant depots allow for both the commercial crew and technology budgets to be bumped up.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The free market wins: By using depots, the free market will also invest their own resources to help develop the technology. Through mechanisms like Space Act Agreements with milestone payments, NASA can have that limited government oversight that everyone would agree we need. Different companies will have different approaches to achieving the requirements set by NASA. Corporations will put their “own skin in the game”. This will drive costs down with multiple options available. Free market competition will spur further innovation that will only benefit the American space program.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The American taxpayer wins: They are wary of government failure. NASA simply cannot afford another Constellation or James Webb Space Telescope. The reasons for program costs overruns and schedule slips is inconsequential. They have happened and we need to recognize and learn from these mistakes. Everyone, from the administrator on down to the engineers in the trenches, needs to understand that we will not get another chance at this. The taxpayers are watching their government more than ever. As a bonus, the many launches required for propellant depots would not only help drive down EELV costs but also provide a reason for vacationers to visit the Space Coast.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The information presented here proves that the propellant depot architecture is a viable alternative to the Space Launch System. Just as importantly, the propellant depot strategy fits within the country’s need for programs that are in sound monetary policy. NASA needs a strategy that NASA leaders and employees can back in private, as well as in public.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A healthy aerospace industry is key to power projection and technological innovation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker et al 2 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">– Chairman of the USAI (Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal govern-ment.2 This translates into two broad missions—Defend America and Project Power—when and where needed. In order to defend America and project power, the nation needs the ability to move manpower, materiel, intelligence information and precision weaponry swiftly to any point around the globe, when needed. This has been, and will continue to be, a mainstay of our national security strategy. The events of September 11, 2001 dramatically demonstrated the extent of our national reliance on aerospace capabilities and related military contribu-tions to homeland security. Combat air patrols swept the skies; satellites supported real-time communica-tions for emergency responders, imagery for recov- ery, and intelligence on terrorist activities; and the security and protection of key government officials was enabled by timely air transport. As recent events in Afghanistan and Kosovo show, the power generated by our nation’s aerospace capa-bilities is an—and perhaps **the—essential ingredient** in **force projection and expeditionary operations**. In both places, at the outset of the crisis, satellites and reconnaissance aircraft, some unmanned, provided critical strategic and tactical intelligence to our national leadership. Space-borne intelligence, com-mand, control and communications assets permitted the rapid targeting of key enemy positions and facilities. Airlifters and tankers brought personnel, materiel, and aircraft to critical locations. And aerial bombardment, with precision weapons and cruise missiles, often aided by the Global Positioning System (GPS) and the Predator unmanned vehicle, destroyed enemy forces. Aircraft carriers and their aircraft also played key roles in both conflicts. Today’s military aerospace capabilities are indeed robust, but at significant risk. They rely on platforms and an industrial base—measured in both human capital and physical facilities—that are aging and increasingly inadequate. Consider just a few of the issues: • Much of our capability to defend America and project power depends on satellites. Assured reli-able access to space is a critical enabler of this capa-bility. As recently as 1998, the key to near- and mid-term space access was the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV), a development project of Boeing, Lockheed Martin and the U. S. Air Force. EELV drew primarily on commercial demand to close the business case for two new launchers, with the U.S. government essentially buying launches at the margin. In this model, each company partner made significant investments of corporate funds in vehicle development and infrastructure, reducing the overall need for government investment. Today, however, worldwide demand for commer-cial satellite launch has dropped essentially to nothing—and is not expected to rise for a decade or more—while the number of available launch platforms worldwide has proliferated. Today, therefore, the business case for EELV simply does not close, and reliance on the economics of a com-mercially-driven market is unsustainable. A new strategy for assured access to space must be found. • The U.S. needs unrestricted access to space for civil, commercial, and military applications. Our satellite systems will become increasingly impor- tant to military operations as today’s information revolution, the so-called “revolution in military affairs,” continues, while at the same time satellites will become increasingly vulnerable to attack as the century proceeds. To preserve critical satellite net-works, the nation will almost certainly need the capability to launch replacement satellites quickly after an attack. One of the key enablers for “launch on demand” is reusable space launch, and yet within the last year all work has been stopped on the X-33 and X-34 reusable launch programs • The challenge for the defense industrial base is to have the capability to build the base force struc-ture, support contingency-related surges, provide production capacity that can increase faster than any new emerging global threat can build up its capacity, and provide an “appropriate” return to shareholders. But the motivation of government and industry are different. This is a prime detrac-tion for wanting to form government-industry partnerships. Industry prioritizes investments toward near-term, high-return, and high-dollar programs that make for a sound business case for them. Government, on the other hand, wants to prioritize investment to ensure a continuing capa-bility to meet any new threat to the nation. This need is cyclical and difficult for businesses to sus-tain during periods of government inactiv-ity. Based on the cyclic nature of demand, the increasing cost/complexity of new systems, and the slow pace of defense modernization, aerospace companies are losing market advantages and the sector is contracting. Twenty-two years ago, today’s “Big 5” in aerospace were 75 separate companies, as depicted by the historical chart of industry con-solidation shown in Chapter 7. • Tactical combat aircraft have been a key compo-nent of America’s air forces. Today, three tactical aircraft programs continue: the F/A-18E/F (in production), the F/A-22 (in a late stage of test and evaluation), and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (just moving into system design and development). Because of the recentness of these programs, there are robust design teams in existence. But all of the initial design work on all three programs will be completed by 2008. If the nation were to con- clude, as it very well may, that a new manned tac- tical aircraft needs to be fielded in the middle of this century, where will we find the experienced design teams required to design and build it, if the design process is in fact gapped for 20 years or more? • More than half of the aerospace workforce is over the age of 404, and the average age of aerospace defense workers is over 50.5Inside the Department of Defense (DoD), a large percent of all scientists and engineers will be retirement eligible by 2005. Given these demographics, there will be an exodus of “corporate knowledge” in the next decade that will be difficult and costly to rebuild once it is lost. There will be a critical need for new engineers, but little new work to mature their practical skill over the next several decades. Further, enrollment in aerospace engineering programs has dropped by 47 percent in the past nine years6, and the interest and national skills in mathematics and science are down. Defense spending on cutting-edge work is at best stable, and commercial aircraft programs are struggling and laying workers off. As the DoD’s recent Space Research and Development (R&D) Industrial Base Study7 concluded, “[s]ustaining a talented workforce of sufficient size and experience remains a long-term issue and is likely to get worse.” In short, the nation needs a plan to attract, train and maintain a skilled, world-class aerospace workforce, but none currently exists. • The current U.S. research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) infrastructure has a legacy dating back to either World War II or the expan- sion during the Space Age in the 1960s. It is now suffering significantly from a lack of resources required for modernization. In some cases, our nation’s capabilities have atrophied and we have lost the lead, as with our outdated wind tunnels, where European facilities are now more modern and efficient. In the current climate, there is inad- equate funding to modernize aging government infrastructure or build facilities that would support the development of new transformational capabil- ities, such as wind tunnels needed to design and test new hypersonic vehicles. The aerospace indus-try must have access to appropriate, modern facil- ities to develop, test and evaluate new systems. Throughout this dynamic and challenging environ-ment, one message remains clear: a healthy U.S. aerospace industry is more than a hedge against an uncertain future. It is one of the primary national instruments through which DoD will develop and obtain the superior technologies and capabilities essential to the on-going transformation of the armed forces, thus maintaining **our position as the world’s preeminent military power**. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moon k2 getting to mars </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">THOMAS **CREMINS**¶ National Aeronautics and Space Administration¶ PAUL D. **SPUDIS**¶ Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory ( Thomas Cremins & Paul D. Spudis (**2007**): Viewpoint: The¶ Strategic Context of the Moon Echoes of the Past, Symphony of the Future,¶ Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 87-104)bs </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Moon is our beachhead for future destinations in space. By¶ //developing a cislunar transportation system//</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">, we give ourselves the¶ inherent ability to go to planets with people and machines. Our ultimate goals in space are to be able to go anywhere</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, with </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">whatever capabilities we need, for as long as we want, to carry out any mission we can imagine. By establishing a foothold on the Moon, we¶ will be another giant step closer to expanding our reach into the¶ universe, ensuring our survival and improving life here on Earth</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch (Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are several reasons that motivate the establishment of a permanent Mars colony. We are a vulnerable species living in a part of the galaxy where cosmic events such as major asteroid and comet impacts and supernova explosions pose a significant threat to life on Earth, especially to human life. There are also more immediate threats to our culture, if not our survival as a species. These include global pandemics, nuclear or biological warfare, runaway global warming, sudden ecological collapse and supervolcanoes (Rees 2004). Thus, the colonization of other worlds is a must if the human species is to survive for the long term. The first potential colonization targets would be asteroids, the Moon and Mars. The Moon is the closest object and does provide some shelter (e.g., lava tube caves), but in all other respects falls short compared to the variety of resources available on Mars. The latter is true for asteroids as well. Mars is by far the most promising for sustained colonization and development, because it is similar in many respects to Earth and, crucially, possesses a moderate surface gravity, an atmosphere, abundant water and carbon dioxide, together with a range of essential minerals. Mars is our second closest planetary neighbor (after Venus) and a trip to Mars at the most favorable launch option takes about six months with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s possible</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">– president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.1-2, originally published in 96)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Some have said that a human mission to Mars is a venture for the far future, a task for the "next generation." On the contrary, we have in hand all the technologies required for undertaking within a decade an aggres­sive, continuing program of human Mars exploration, we can reach the Red Planet with relatively small spacecraft launched directly to Mars by boosters embodying the same technology that carried astronauts to the Moon more than forty years ago. How can this be? Looking at almost any plan for a human mission to Mars, be it from the 1950s or the 1990s, we see enormous spaceships hauling to Mars all the supplies and propellant required for a mission. The size of the spacecraft demands that they be assembled in Earth orbit—they're simply too large to launch from the Earth's surface in one piece. This requires that a virtual parallel universe of gigantic orbiting 'dry docks." hangars, cryogenic fuel depots, power stations, checkout points, and construction crew habitation shacks be placed in orbit to enable assembly of the spaceships and storage of the vast quantities of propellant. Based upon such concepts, it has been endlessly repeated that a mission to Mars would have to cost hundreds of billions ol dol­lars and incorporate technologies that won’t be available for another thirty years. Yet landing humans on Mars requires neither miraculous new technologies nor the expenditure of vast sums of money. We don't need to build //Battlestar Galatica-like// futuristic spaceships to go to Mars. Rather, we simply need to use some common sense and employ technologies we have at hand now to travel light and live off the land, just as was done by nearly every successful program of terrestrial explora­tion undertaken in the past. Living off the land—intelligent use of local resources—is not just the way the West was won; it's the way the Earth was won, and its also the way Mars can be won. The conventional Mars mission plans are impossibly huge and expensive because they attempt to take all the materials needed for a two- to three-year round trip Mars mission with them from Earth. But if these consumables can be pro­duced on Mats instead, the story changes, radically.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC - Cooperation </span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shift away from the moon has Caused space counter balancing against the united states – undermines credibility the ISS and space security –this card is reverse casual </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pace 3/28</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - Director of the Space Policy Institute at the Elliott School of International Affairs in Washington, D.C. He was previously the NASA Associate Administrator for Program Analysis and Evaluation and the Assistant Director for Space and Aeronautics in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. ( Scott 3/28/13 American Space Strategy: Choose to Steer, Not Drift [[http://thediplomat.com/2013/03/28/american-space-strategy-choose-to-steer-not-drift/?all=true)bs]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Making matters worse, over the previous six years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the international space community has been shifting its attention to the Moon in anticipation of that being the next U.S. focus of exploration beyond low Earth orbit. Countries in Asia,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> such as Japan, India, China and South Korea</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">, saw the Moon as a challenging but feasible destination for robotic exploration and a practical focus for human space exploration. The redirection for human space flight in the 2010 National Space Policy was a great surprise to current and prospective international partners</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">The asteroid mission was</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, perhaps unintentionally, //taken as a sign that the United States was not interested in broad international cooperation but would focus on partnerships with the most capable countries//, such as Russia and perhaps Europe. Similarly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">human missions to Mars were seen as a desirable goal but too difficult and expensive as the next step beyond the International Space Station.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The perception that the next steps in human space exploration would be too difficult to allow meaningful participation by most spacefaring countries undercut international support for human space exploration more generally. The lack of U.S. support for a program to return to the Moon made it difficult for advocates of human space exploration in Europe, Japan, India, and elsewhere to gain funding for any efforts beyond the International Space Station (ISS). The ISS is itself under budget pressure to justify its construction and on-going operations costs, a task that has been more difficult by the lack of a clear direction for human space exploration beyond low Earth orbit. </span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The lack of international leadership by the United States provides an opportunity for rising spacefaring countries such as China to play a greater role in the future</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">If China is able to offer pragmatic opportunities for space cooperation on its own space station or as part of efforts to send humans to the Moon, other countries will likely see it attractive to forge closer relationships with China</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. //A shift in international space influence away from the United States and toward China would have the potential to impact a wide range of U.S. national security and foreign policy interests in space//.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A sense of drift in space cooperation carries risks. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">China and Russia have for many years advocated an international treaty barring space weapons as well as the use or the threat of the use of force against space objects. They have introduced a draft treaty at the UN Conference on Disarmament as part of deliberations on</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the “prevention of an arms race in outer space.” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States has consistently opposed such a treaty as unnecessary, unverifiable, and not in the interests of the United States and its allies</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. A </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">major flaw in the draft treaty is the difficulty in defining just what a space weapon is; even if defined, the Chinese-Russian text leaves out ground-based systems such as interceptors and lasers. Consideration of a verifiable agreement, based on behavior, to ban the intentional creation of long-lived orbital debris has not gained much traction due to the impasse over the Chinese-Russian proposal and a lack of interest by other spacefaring countries in possible alternatives.</span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If the United States hopes to move beyond the current stalemate in international space security and reclaim a stronger leadership position, it needs to address the international role of human space exploration</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Historically, the most common strategic approach to human space flight has been one driven by geopolitical interests and objectives. The United States undertook the Apollo program in the 1960s to beat the Soviet Union to the Moon as part of a global competition for Cold War prestige. The Apollo- Soyuz program symbolized a brief period of détente in the 1970s. The Space Station program was established in the 1980s, in part, to bring the developing space capabilities of Europe and Japan closer to the United States and to strengthen anti-Soviet alliances. Russia was invited to join a restructured International Space Station in the 1990s to symbolize a new post-Cold War, post-Soviet relationship with Russia. What might be the geopolitical rationale for the next steps in human space exploration?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space sends a cooperative signal and reverses the trend of isolationism</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pace 3/28</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - Director of the Space Policy Institute at the Elliott School of International Affairs in Washington, D.C. He was previously the NASA Associate Administrator for Program Analysis and Evaluation and the Assistant Director for Space and Aeronautics in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. ( Scott 3/28/13 American Space Strategy: Choose to Steer, Not Drift [[http://thediplomat.com/2013/03/28/american-space-strategy-choose-to-steer-not-drift/?all=true)bs]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even in a tight fiscal environment, the United States can advance is national interests more effectively by taking an integrated approach to its space capabilities and international cooperation. It can and should avoid unrealistic and dangerous hopes that other nations will naturally align their interests with ours in space. The current situation is one in which </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">other nations are drifting away due to failures in leadership. It will take active leadership to repair the damage</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. In a geopolitical and strategic approach to space, political leadership is needed to project a positive vision of the future and not merely one of managing decline gracefully. The most challenging and promising area for expanding international space cooperation to serve the full range of U.S. interests is in the Asia-Pacific region, beginning but not limited to our traditional friends and allies such as Japan and Australia.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Positive, inclusive leadership in space will attract others to us and benefit the United States and its allies in terms of increased security, commerce, and global influence. Without attractive and inclusive space leadership, we will not be able to shape the international environment for the space activities that our economy and security depend on. If we cannot ensure our international security and grow our economy, in the end we will not be able to sustain the social welfare benefits we have now. In shaping the international environment for space activities, hard and soft power can be used to complement each other and build a more secure, stable, and prosperous, world in which taking our interests beyond the Earth can help secure them at home.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, “A World of Our Making,” Spring,[[@http://www.democracyjournal.org/20/a-world-of-our-making.php?page=all]])</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Grand strategy is a set of coordinated and sustained policies designed to address the long-term threats and opportunities that lie beyond the country’s shores. Given the great shifts in the global system and the crisis of liberal hegemonic order, how should the United States pursue grand strategy in the coming years? The answer is that the United States should work with others to rebuild and renew the institutional foundations of the liberal international order and along the way re-establish its own authority as a global leader. The United States is going to need to invest in alliances, partnerships, multilateral institutions, special relationships, great-power concerts, cooperative security pacts, and democratic security communities. That is, the United States will need to return to the great tasks of liberal order building. It is useful to distinguish between two types of grand strategy: positional and milieu oriented. With a positional grand strategy, a great power seeks to diminish the power or threat embodied in a specific challenger state or group of states. Examples are Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan, the Soviet bloc, and perhaps—in the future—Greater China. With a milieu-oriented grand strategy, a great power does not target a specific state but seeks to structure its general international environment in ways that are congenial with its long-term security. This might entail building the infrastructure of international cooperation, promoting trade and democracy in various regions of the world, and establishing partnerships that might be useful for various contingencies. My point is that under conditions of unipolarity, in a world of diffuse threats, and with pervasive uncertainty over what the specific security challenges will be in the future, this milieu-based approach to grand strategy is necessary. The United States does not face the sort of singular geopolitical threat that it did with the fascist and communist powers of the last century. Indeed, compared with the dark days of the 1930s or the Cold War, America lives in an extraordinarily benign security environment. Rather than a single overriding threat, the United States and other countries face a host of diffuse and evolving threats. Global warming, nuclear proliferation, jihadist terrorism, energy security, health pandemics—these and other dangers loom on the horizon. Any of these threats could endanger Americans’lives and way of life either directly or indirectly by destabilizing the global system upon which American security and prosperity depends. What is more, these threats are interconnected—and it is their interactive effects that represent the most acute danger. And if several of these threats materialize at the same time and interact to generate greater violence and instability, then the global order itself, as well as the foundations of American national security, would be put at risk. What unites these threats and challenges is that they are all manifestations of rising security interdependence. More and more of what goes on in other countries matters for the health and safety of the United States and the rest of the world. Many of the new dangers—such as health pandemics and transnational terrorist violence—stem from the weakness of states rather than their strength. At the same time, technologies of violence are evolving, providing opportunities for weak states or nonstate groups to threaten others at a greater distance.When states are in a situation of security interdependence, they cannot go it alone. They must negotiate and cooperate with other states and seek mutual restraints and protections. The United States cannot hide or protect itself from threats under conditions of rising security interdependence. It must **get out in the world and work with other states to build frameworks of cooperation** and leverage capacities for action against this unusually diverse, diffuse, and unpredictable array of threats and challenges. This is why a milieu-based grand strategy is attractive. The objective is to shape the international environment to maximize your capacities to protect the nation from threats. To engage in liberal order building is to **invest in** international cooperative frameworks—that is, rules, institutions, **partnerships,** networks, standby capacities, social knowledge, etc.—in which the United Statesoperates. To build international order is to increase the global stock of “social capital”—which is the term Pierre Bourdieu, Robert Putnam, and other social scientists have used to define the actual and potential resources and capacities within a political community, manifest in and through its networks of social relations, that are available for solving collective problems.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently depots spur cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zegler et al. 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Frank Zegler, Bernard F. Kutter, Jon Barr, ULA, “A Commercially Based Lunar Architecture”, http://ulalaunch.com/site/docs/publications/AffordableExplorationArchitecture2009.pdf,)bs</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The proposed lunar architecture illuminates how the powerful leveraging effects of simple orbital depots can enable small expendable launch vehicles, compatible with existing DoD and commercial payload needs, to establish, support and expand a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">lunar base with a continuous human presence. The costs and protracted schedule associated with the development of extremely large boosters and multiple in-space stages can be eliminated and the resources applied to the lunar lander</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, propellant tankers </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">and depots built around a common in-space stage</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">simplicity of the architecture enables development</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">actually fits within projected budgets which is in sharp contrast to the present approach.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> //The door to lunar exploration is presently shut due being simply unaffordable with the present architecture. The proposed architecture reopens that door.//</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">separating out propellant delivery the architecture not only encourages economic production rates for multiple launch suppliers but provides a commodity task that fosters innovation for new launch suppliers, enables contributions from foreign sources and truly effective international cooperation. In many ways it is the functional equivalent of the establishment of airmail as a commodity activity for the fledgling aircraft and airline industries of the early 20th century.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space cooperation is key to prevent extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hays 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Peter, PhD, Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University, senior policy analyst supporting the plans and programs division of the National Security Space Office, retired Lieutenant Colonel, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Other impediments to further developing space law are exacerbated by a lack of acceptance in some quarters that sustained, cooperative efforts are often the best and sometimes the only way in which humanity can address our most pressing survival challenges. Cosmic threats to humanity's survival exist and include the depletion of resources and fouling of our only current habitat, threats in the space environment such as large objects that could strike Earth and cause cataclysmic damage, and the eventual exhaustion and destruction of the Sun. The message is clear: environmental degradation and space phenomena can threaten our existence, but humanity can improve our odds for survival if we can cooperate in grasping and exploiting survival opportunities. Law can provide one of the most effective ways to structure and use these opportunities. Sustained dialogue of the type this volume seeks to foster can help raise awareness, generate support for better space law, and ultimately nurture the spacepower needed to improve our odds for survival.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depots are key to a sustainable space presence </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Woodcock and Smitherman 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (¶ David Smitherman¶ 1¶ NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, ED04, Huntsville, Alabama, 35802, U.S.A.¶ and¶ Gordon Woodcock¶ Gray Research, Engineering, Science, and Technical Services Contract, “Space Transportation Infrastructure Supported By ¶ Propellant Depots”, http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20120001435_2012001131.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The //propellant depot system// described in this paper shows one way our current commercially available ELV ¶ infrastructure c</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">ould provide for over 90% of the propulsion and propellants required to support simultaneously all of ¶ our commercial and exploration mission needs in the foreseeable future.The ability to place such a large percentage ¶ of the transportation mass into a competitive contracting environment should have tremendous economic impact by ¶ lowering space transportation cost for NASA and new commercial customers</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. The incremental development, high ¶ flight rates, reusability, and the multipurpose/multi-mission characteristics of this propellant depot infrastructure ¶ make it worthy of serious consideration as a part of a long-term development plan for human expansion into space. ¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Establishment of a</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> LEO </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Depot to support satellite servicing and future commercial and exploration missions, and ¶ then expanding quickly with the addition of a L1 Depot for exploration and development out to the Moon and then ¶ to Mars has great potential to permanently expand human presence beyond LEO</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. ¶ The LEO Depot can support satellite servicing missions, new commercial enterprises, and human exploration ¶ missions beyond LEO through the L1 Depot. A typical GEO satellite servicing mission was found to require 4 Delta ¶ IV Heavy launches for crew and propellants utilizing a reusable CTV and RUS based at the LEO Depot. Both these ¶ vehicles have a propellant capacity of ~32 mt and are similar in design with the CTV having an added crew module ¶ and payload bay.¶ //The L1 Depot supports all missions beyond the Earth-Moon L1 orbit including the Moon, ESL2, Asteroids, and ¶ Mars//. The system utilizes the same CTV and RUS, and adds a Lunar Lander and a DSH. The Lunar Lander also ¶ utilized a ~32 mt propellant capacity and has many similarities to the size and design of the CTV and RUS. This ¶ type of commonality was a goal throughout the depot infrastructure development</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">. A typical lunar mission was found ¶ to require 7 Delta IV Heavy launches, ESL2 missions required 9 launches, asteroid missions varied from 6 to 15 ¶ launches, and Mars missions varied from 14 to 21 launches</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> //once the depots and reusable in-space transportation ¶ elements were in place.¶ This reusable depot infrastructure should promote a robust market for existing commercial launch vehicles and ¶ new commercial services in space//. Technology development by NASA focused on reusability and reliability in all ¶ the in-space systems for depots, transfer vehicles, Landers, and habitats has the potential to open up the space ¶ frontier to multiple human space operations conducted simultaneously within NASA and with commercial ¶ developers and international partners. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA’s development of reusable technologies for in-space systems will ¶ further stimulate the commercial market for development of the next generation of reusable launch vehicles. To ¶ accomplish this type of infrastructure NASA and the commercial sector may need to find new organizational ¶ structures because neither appears to have the resources or the mandate to do it alone. Continued analysis of this ¶ approach, defining organizational responsibilities for its development, and integrating complex cost modeling to ¶ analyze the many options, are the next steps needed to move forward with this propellant depot-based space ¶ transportation infrastructure.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That sustains American credibility</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if human space flight has made, and will continue to make, a significant contribution to US national power, that contribution will come in the form of “soft power.” That this could be the case has been recognized from the start of the US human space flight program. For example, the first comprehensive statement of US space policy, approved by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in January 1960, declared, “To the layman, manned space flight and exploration will represent the true conquest of outer space. No unmanned experiment can substitute for manned exploration in its psychological effect on the peoples of the world.” 7 The May 1961 DoD memorandum suggesting to President John F. Kennedy that he set a manned lunar landing as a national goal noted that “Dramatic achievements in space … symbolize the technological power and organizing capabilities of a nation,” that “This nation needs to make a positive decision to pursue space projects aimed at national prestige. Our attainments are a major element in the international competition between the Soviet system and our own. … ‘civilian’ projects such as lunar and planetary exploration are, in this sense, part of the battle along the fluid front of the cold war,” that “such undertakings may affect our military strength only indirectly if at all, but they have an increasing effect on our national posture,” and that “It is man, not machines, that captures the imagination of the world.” 8 The case for the soft power payoffs from human space flight may have most clearly and pungently been stated by former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, who in 1971 was deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Writing to President Richard M. Nixon about recommendations of the OMB staff to cancel the two remaining Apollo flights and to not approve Space Shuttle development decision which would have had the effect of ending the US human space flight program, Weinberger suggested: Recent Apollo flights have been very successful from all points of view. Most important is the fact that they give the American people a much needed lift in spirit, (and the people of the world an equally needed look at American superiority). [Canceling Apollo 16 and 17 and not approving Shuttle development] would be confirming in some respects a belief that I fear is gaining credence at home and abroad: That our best years are behind us, that we are turning inward, reducing our defense commitments, and voluntarily starting to give up our super-power status, and our desire to maintain world superiority. 9 Twelve years later, NASA made much the same argument in the briefing to President Ronald W. Reagan which asked him to approve the development of a space station, saying that “The presence of man is the key to leadership in space.” 10 Unfortunately, neither the Space Shuttle nor the International Space Station (ISS) programs have lived up to their promised performance, and thus it is a fair question to ask whether human space flight as car ried out by NASA over the past quarter century has been a significant contributor to US soft power. The recent contribution of human spaceflight to US national prestige is uncertain, particularly given the uneven record of the international partnership on the ISS. However, the ability to carry non-US astronauts on the space shuttle is a useful foreign policy tool. Even so, space achievements involving direct human presence remain a potent source of national pride, and that such pride is the primary underpinning reason why the US public continues to support human spaceflight. Certainly, space images—an American astronaut on the Moon, a Space Shuttle launch—rank only below the American flag and the bald eagle as patriotic symbols, and such patriotism is a foundation of US soft (and hard) power. The self-image of the United States as a successful nation is threatened when we fail in our space efforts, and catastrophes such as Challenger and Columbia seem to tap deep emotions. Space Exploration and National Power President George W. Bush announced a new US “Vision for Space Exploration” on 14 January 2004; that vision aims at “a sustained and affordable human and robotic partnership to explore the solar system and beyond,” with an initial human return to the Moon and the human missions to Mars. The fundamental goal of the vision is “to advance US scientific, security, and economic objectives.” [emphasis added] 11 In what ways can human exploration of the Moon, Mars, and beyond contribute to space power, and thus to national security? This question has been eloquently addressed by the current NASA administrator, Dr. Michael D. Griffin: “The most enlightened, yet least discussed, aspect of national security involves being the kind of nation and, doing the kinds of things, that inspire others to want to cooperate as allies and partners rather than to be adversaries. And in my opinion, this is NASA’s greatest contribution to our Nation’s future in the world.” He added, Today, and yet not for much longer, America’s ability to lead a robust program of human and robotic exploration sets us above and apart from all others. It offers the perfect venue for leadership in an alliance of great nations, and provides the perfect opportunity to bind others to us as partners in the pursuit of common dreams. And if we are a nation joined with others in pursuit of such goals, all will be less likely to pursue conflict in other arenas. Griffin went even further in his analysis: “Imagine if you will a world of some future time—whether it be 2020 or 2040 or whenever—when some other nations or alliances are capable of reaching and exploring the Moon, or voyaging to Mars, and the United States cannot and does not. Is it even conceivable that in such a world America would still be regarded as a leader among nations, never mind the leader?” He asked “Are we willing to accept those consequences?” 12 These remarks have been quoted at some length because they sum up the core argument of this essay—that human space flight, well conceived and well executed, is a valuable source of soft power for the United States. Whether or not direct military or economic benefits flow from having the ability to send people to orbit and beyond, human space flight will continue to make an important contribution to having the rest of the world see the United States as a great country.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And it makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can get everything it wants or that it has no need for others. American power is very great, but it is still subject to two familiar limitations: it is harder to build than to destroy, and success usually depends on others’ decisions. This is particularly true of the current system because of what the U.S. wants. If Hitler had won World War II, he might have been able to maintain his system for some period of time with little cooperation from others because “all” he wanted was to establish the supremacy of the Aryan race. The U.S. wants not only to prevent the rise of a peer competitor but also to stamp out terrorism, maintain an open international economic system, spread democracy throughout the world, and establish a high degree of cooperation among countries that remain juridically equal. Even in the military arena, the U.S. cannot act completely alone. Bases and overflight rights are always needed, and support from allies, especially Great Britain, is important to validate military action in the eyes of the American public. When one matches American forces, not against those of an adversary but against the tasks at hand, they often fall short.54 Against terrorism, force is ineffective without excellent intelligence. Given the international nature of the threat and the difficulties of gaining information about it, international cooperation is the only route to success. The maintenance of international prosperity also requires joint efforts, even leaving aside the danger that other countries could trigger a run on the dollar by cashing in their holdings. Despite its lack of political unity, Europe is in many respects an economic unit, and one with a greater gdp than that of the U.S. Especially because of the growing Chinese economy, economic power is spread around the world much more equally than is military power, and the open economic system could easily disintegrate despite continued unipolarity. In parallel, on a whole host of problems such as aids, poverty, and international crime (even leaving aside climate change), the unipole can lead and exert pressure but cannot dictate. Joint actions may be necessary to apply sanctions to various unpleasant and recalcitrant regimes; proliferation can be stopped only if all the major states (and many minor ones) work to this end; unipolarity did not automatically enable the U.S. to maintain the coalition against Iraq after the first Gulf War; close ties within the West are needed to reduce the ability of China, Russia, and other states to play one Western country off against the others. But in comparison with the cold war era, there are fewer incentives today for allies to cooperate with the U.S. During the earlier period unity and close coordination not only permitted military efficiencies but, more importantly, gave credibility to the American nuclear umbrella that protected the allies. Serious splits were dangerous because they entailed the risk that the Soviet Union would be emboldened. This reason for avoiding squabbles disappeared along with the USSR, and the point is likely to generalize to other unipolar systems if they involve a decrease of threats that call for maintaining good relations with the superpower. This does not mean that even in this particular unipolar system the superpower is like Gulliver tied down by the Lilliputians. In some areas opposition can be self-defeating. Thus for any country to undermine American leadership of the international economy would be to put its own economy at risk, even if the U.S. did not retaliate, and for a country to sell a large proportion of its dollar holding would be to depress the value of the dollar, thereby diminishing the worth of the country’s remaining stock of this currency. Furthermore, cooperation often follows strong and essentially unilateral action. Without the war in Iraq it is not likely that we would have seen the degree of cooperation that the U.S. obtained from Europe in combating the Iranian nuclear program and from Japan and the PRC in containing North Korea. Nevertheless, many of the American goals depend on persuading others, not coercing them. Although incentives and even force are not irrelevant to spreading democracy and the free market, at bottom this requires people to embrace a set of institutions and values. Building the world that the U.S. seeks is a political, social, and even psychological task for which unilateral measures are likely to be unsuited and for which American military and economic strength can at best play a supporting role. Success requires that others share the American vision and believe that its leadership is benign. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The moon is vital to sustain hegemony---government action is key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mark R. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Whittington, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (1/15, “Prominent American Scientist Warns About Chinese Moon Effort”, the author of Children of Apollo and The Last Moonwalker. He has written on space subjects for a variety of periodicals, including The Houston Chronicle, The Washington Post, USA Today, the L.A. Times, and The Weekly Standard, http://voices.yahoo.com/prominent-american-scientist-warns-chinese-moon-10838399.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paul </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis, a scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Science Institute,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the author of "The Once and Future Moon," and a leading advocate for a return to the moon, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">has weighed in on the prospect of the Chinese returning to the moon.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The threat of a Chinese return to the moon, according to Spudis, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">is that its ideology would dominate the governance of space, including space commerce. That ideology, while capitalistic, is also authoritarian</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> which, according to Spudis, is "--</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">one with scant regard for the rule of contract law, copyright, private property and western notions of free market dynamics</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">."</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That is of crucial concern for anyone who believes that private enterprise can operate in space in such an environment. Simply put, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">if the Chinese are operating on the moon and the United States is not, anyone else who proposes to operate in space will only do so at Chinese sufferance.The moon contains resources, such as water, necessary for the large scale economic exploitation of space. If China controls those resources, China will make the rules</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Some space analysts, such as Rand Simberg, who purport to be libertarian </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">suggest that a Chinese lunar effort is "irrelevant" and that private bases on the moon will make all government efforts so</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">It's a quaint vision, considering that Bigelow is not yet able to deploy and maintain a low Earth orbit private space station and SpaceX is focused on chasing government subsidies and contracts to resupply the space station.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> In any event, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the CEO of Bigelow Aerospace is one of the leading voices warning about Chinese space efforts toward the moon.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Equally insidious is a Time Magazine piece by Jeff Kluger </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">that suggests that since the United States lacks that Apollo era mojo, we should just root for the Chinese as representatives</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of Homo Sapiens going forth to explore those strange new worlds that we are no longer willing to bother with. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">That is the declinest view of America, simply accepting the replacement of the United States by China as the premier space power and, shortly, world super power</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis suggests that instead </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the United States needs to realize that it is in a race, not just for the moon, but for the future. It is not a sprint, but a marathon. To the winner goes-everything</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abesnt effective u.s. hegemony global wars will ensue</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks, Ikenberry, and Wohlforth ’13 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Stephen, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, William C. Wohlforth is the Daniel Webster Professor in the Department of Government at Dartmouth College “Don’t Come Home America: The Case Against Retrenchment,” International Security, Vol. 37, No. 3 (Winter 2012/13), pp. 7–51)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">A core premise of **deep engagement** is that it prevents the **emergence** of a far more dangerous global securityenvironment. For one thing, as noted above, the United States’ overseas presence gives it the **leverage** to restrain partners from taking provocative action. Perhaps more important, its core **alliance commitments** also deter states with aspirations to regional hegemony from contemplating expansion and make its partners more secure, reducing their incentive to adopt solutions to their security problems that threaten others and thus stoke security dilemmas. The contention that engaged **U.S. power dampens the** baleful **effects of anarchy** is consistent with influential variants of realist theory. Indeed, arguably the scariest portrayal of the war-prone world that would emerge absent the “American Pacifier” is provided in the works of JohnMearsheimer, who forecasts dangerous multipolar regions replete with security competition, arms races, nuclear proliferation and associated preventive war temptations, regional rivalries, and even runs at regional hegemony and **full-scale great power war.** 72 How do retrenchment advocates, the bulk of whom are realists, discount this benefit? Their arguments are complicated, but two capture most of the variation: (1) U.S. security guarantees are not necessary to prevent dangerous rivalries and conflict in Eurasia; or (2) prevention of rivalry and conflict in Eurasia is not a U.S. interest. Each response is connected to a different theory or set of theories, which makes sense given that the whole debate hinges on a complex future counterfactual (what would happen to Eurasia’s security setting if the United States truly disengaged?). Although a certain answer is impossible, each of these responses is nonetheless a weaker argument for retrenchment than advocates acknowledge. The first response flows from defensive realism as well as other international relations theories that discount the conflict-generating potential of anarchy under contemporary conditions. 73 Defensive realists maintain that the high expected costs of territorial conquest, defense dominance, and an array of policies and practices that can be used credibly to signal benign intent, mean that Eurasia’s major states could manage regional multipolarity peacefully without the American pacifier. Retrenchment would be a bet on this scholarship, particularly in regions where the kinds of stabilizers that nonrealist theories point to—such as democratic governance or dense institutional linkages—are either absent or weakly present. There are three other major bodies of scholarship, however, that might give decisionmakers pause before making this bet. First is regional expertise. Needless to say, there is no consensus on the net security effects of U.S. withdrawal. Regarding each region, there are optimists and pessimists. Few experts expect a return of intense great power competition in a post-American Europe, but many doubt European governments will pay the political costs of increased EU defense cooperation and the budgetary costs of increasing military outlays. 74 The result might be a Europe that is incapable of securing itself from various threats that could be destabilizing within the region and beyond (e.g., a regional conflict akin to the 1990s Balkan wars), lacks capacity for global security missions in which U.S. leaders might want European participation, and is vulnerable to the influence of outside rising powers. What about the other parts of Eurasia where the United States has a substantial military presence? Regarding the Middle East, the balance begins to swing toward pessimists concerned that states currently backed by Washington— notably Israel, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia—might take actions upon U.S. retrenchment that would intensify security dilemmas. And concerning East Asia, pessimism regarding the region’s prospects without the American pacifier is pronounced. Arguably the principal concern expressed by area experts is that Japan and South Korea are likely toobtain a nuclear capacity and increase their military commitments, which could stoke a destabilizing reaction from China. It is notable that during the Cold War, both South Korea and Taiwan moved to obtain a nuclear weapons capacity and were only constrained from doing so by a still-engaged United States. 75 The second body of scholarship casting doubt on the bet on defensive realism’s sanguine portrayal is all of the research that undermines its conception of state preferences. Defensive realism’s optimism about what would happen if the United States retrenched is very much dependent on its particular—and highly restrictive—assumption about state preferences; once we relax this assumption, then much of its basis for optimism vanishes. Specifically, the prediction of post-American tranquility throughout Eurasia rests on the assumption that security is the only relevant state preference, with security defined narrowly in terms of protection from violent external attacks on the homeland. Under that assumption, the security problem is largely solved as soon as offense and defense are clearly distinguishable, and offense is extremely expensive relative to defense. **Burgeoning** research across the social and other sciences, however, undermines that core assumption: states have preferences not only for security but also for prestige, status, and other aims, and they engage in trade-offs among the various objectives. 76 In addition, they define security not just in terms of territorial protection but in view of many and varied milieu goals. It follows that even states that are relatively secure may nevertheless engage in highly competitive behavior. Empirical studies show that this is indeed sometimes the case. 77 In sum, a bet on a benign postretrenchment Eurasia is a bet that leaders of major countries will never allow these nonsecurity preferences to influence their strategic choices. To the degree that these bodies of scholarly knowledge have predictive leverage, U.S. retrenchment would result in a significant deterioration in the security environment in at least some of the world’s key regions. We have already mentioned the third, even more alarming body of scholarship. Offensive realism predicts that **the withdrawal of** the **America**n pacifier **will yield** either a competitive regional **multipolarity complete with** associated insecurity, arms racing, **crisis instability, nuclear proliferation, and** the like, or bids for regional hegemony, which may be beyond the capacity of local great powers to contain (and which in any case would generate intensely competitive behavior, possibly including regional **great power war**). Hence it is unsurprising that retrenchment advocates are prone to focus on the second argument noted above: that avoiding wars and security dilemmas in the world’s core regions is not a U.S. national interest. Few doubt that the United States could survive the return of insecurity and conflict among Eurasian powers, but at what cost? Much of the work in this area has focused on the economic externalities of a renewed threat of insecurity and war, which we discuss below. Focusing on the pure security ramifications, there are two main reasons why decisionmakers may be rationally reluctant to run the retrenchment experiment. First, overall higher levels of conflict make the world a more dangerous place. Were Eurasia to return to higher levels of interstate military competition, one would see overall higher levels of military spending and innovation and a higher likelihood of competitive regional **proxy wars and arming of client states**—all of which would be concerning, in part because it would promote a faster diffusion of military power away from the United States. Greater regional insecurity could well feed proliferation cascades, as states such as Egypt, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Saudi Arabia all might choose to create nuclear forces. 78 It is unlikely that proliferation decisions by any of these actors would be the end of the game: they would likely generate pressure locally for more proliferation. Following Kenneth Waltz, many retrenchment advocates are proliferation optimists, assuming that nuclear deterrence solves the security problem. 79 Usually carried out in dyadic terms, the debate over the stability of proliferation changes as the numbers go up. Proliferation optimism rests on assumptions of rationality and narrow security preferences. In social science, however,such assumptions are inevitably probabilistic. Optimists assume that most states are led by rational leaders, most will overcome organizational problems and resist the temptation to preempt before feared neighbors nuclearize, and most pursue only security and are risk averse. Confidence in such probabilistic assumptions declines if the world were to move from nine to twenty, thirty, or forty nuclear states. In addition, many of the other dangers noted by analysts who are concerned about the destabilizing effects of nuclear proliferation—including the risk of accidents and the prospects that some new nuclearpowers will not have truly survivable forces—seem prone to go up as the number of nuclear powers grows. 80 Moreover, the risk of “unforeseen crisis dynamics” that could **spin out of control** is also higher as the number of nuclear powers increases. Finally, add to these concerns the enhanced danger of nuclear leakage, and a world with overall higher levels of security competition becomes yet more worrisome. The argument that maintaining Eurasian peace is not a U.S. interest faces a second problem. On widely accepted realist assumptions, acknowledging that U.S. engagement preserves peace dramatically narrows the difference between retrenchment and deep engagement. For many supporters of retrenchment, the optimal strategy for a power such as the United States, which has attained regional hegemony and is separated from other great powers by oceans, is offshore balancing: stay over the horizon and “pass the buck” to local powers to do the dangerous work of counterbalancing any local rising power. The United States should commit to onshore balancing only when local balancing is likely to fail and a great power appears to be a credible contender for regional hegemony, as in the cases of Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union in the midtwentieth century. The problem is that China’s rise puts the possibility of its attaining regional hegemony on the table, at least in the medium to long term. As Mearsheimer notes, “The United States will have to play a key role in countering China, because its Asian neighbors are not strong enough to do it by themselves.” 81 Therefore, unless China’s rise stalls, “the United States is likely to act toward China similar to the way it behaved toward the Soviet Union during the Cold War.” 82 It follows that the United States should take no action that would compromise its capacity to move to onshore balancing in the future. It will need to maintain key alliance relationships in Asia as well as the formidably expensive military capacity to intervene there. The implication is to get out of Iraq and Afghanistan, reduce the presence in Europe, and pivot to Asia— just what the United States is doing. 83 In sum, **the argument that U.S.** **security****commitments are unnecessary for peace** is countered by a lot of scholarship, including highly influential realist scholarship. In addition, the argument that Eurasian peace is unnecessary for U.S. security is weakened by the potential for a large number of nasty security consequences as well as the need to retain a latent onshore balancing capacity that dramatically reduces the savings retrenchment might bring. Moreover, switching between offshore and onshore balancing could well be difªcult. Bringing together the thrust of many of the arguments discussed so far underlines the degree to which **the case for retrenchment misses the** underlying **logic of** the **deep engagement** strategy. By supplying reassurance, deterrence, and active management, the United States lowers security competition in the world’s key regions, thereby preventing the emergence ofa hothouse atmosphere for growing new military capabilities. Alliance ties dissuade partners from ramping up and also provide leverage to prevent military transfers to potential rivals. On top of all this, the United States’ formidable military machine may deter entry by potential rivals. Current great power military expenditures as a percentage of GDP are at historical lows, and thus far other major powers have shied away from seeking to match top-end U.S. military capabilities. In addition, they have so far been careful to avoid attracting the “focused enmity” of the United States. 84 All of the world’s most modern militaries are U.S. allies (America’s alliance system of more than sixty countries now accounts for some 80 percent of global military spending), and the gap between the U.S. military capability and that of potential rivals is by many measures growing rather than shrinking. 85</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That deterrence is sufficient – Empirics prove </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drezner 05</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, perhaps, since our distant forebears realized that a tree limb could be used as a club. But here is something you would never guess from watching the news: War has entered a cycle of decline. Combat in Iraq and in a few other places is an exception to a significant global trend that has gone nearly unnoticed--namely that, for about 15 years, there have been steadily fewer armed conflicts worldwide. In fact, it is possible that a person's chance of dying because of war has, in the last decade or more, become the lowest in human history. Is Easterbrook right? He has a few more paragraphs on the numbers: The University of Maryland studies find the number of wars and armed conflicts worldwide peaked in 1991 at 51, which may represent the most wars happening simultaneously at any point in history. Since 1991, the number has fallen steadily. There were 26 armed conflicts in 2000 and 25 in 2002, even after the Al Qaeda attack on the United States and the U.S. counterattack against Afghanistan. By 2004, Marshall and Gurr's latest study shows, the number of armed conflicts in the world had declined to 20, even after the invasion of Iraq. All told, there were less than half as many wars in 2004 as there were in 1991. Marshall and Gurr also have a second ranking, gauging the magnitude of fighting. This section of the report is more subjective. Everyone agrees that the worst moment for human conflict was World War II; but how to rank, say, the current separatist fighting in Indonesia versus, say, the Algerian war of independence is more speculative. Nevertheless, the Peace and Conflict studies name 1991 as the peak post-World War II year for totality of global fighting, giving that year a ranking of 179 on a scale that rates the extent and destructiveness of combat. By 2000, in spite of war in the Balkans and genocide in Rwanda, the number had fallen to 97; by 2002 to 81; and, at the end of 2004, it stood at 65. This suggests the extent andintensity of global combat is now less than half what it was 15 years ago. Easterbrook spends the rest of the essay postulating the causes of this -- the decline in great power war, the spread of democracies, the growth of economic interdependence, and even the peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Easterbrook makes a lot of good points -- most people are genuinely shocked when they are told that even in a post-9/11 climate, there has been a steady and persistent decline in wars and deaths from wars. That said, what bothers me in the piece is what Easterbrook leaves out. First, he neglects to mention the biggest reason for why war is on the decline -- there's a global hegemon called the United States right now. Easterbrook acknowledges that "the most powerful factor must be the end of the cold war" but he doesn't understand why it's the most powerful factor. Elsewhere in the piece he talks about the growing comity among the great powers, without discussing the elephant in the room: the reason the "great powers" get along is that the United States is much, much more powerful than anyone else. If you quantify power only by relative military capabilities, the U.S. is a great power, there are maybe ten or so middle powers, and then there are a lot of mosquitoes.[If the U.S. is so powerful, why can't it subdue the Iraqi insurgency?--ed. Power is a relative measure -- the U.S. might be having difficulties, but no other country in the world would have fewer problems.] Joshua Goldstein, who knows a thing or two about this phenomenon, made this clear in a Christian Science Monitor op-ed three years ago: We probably owe this lull to the end of the cold war, and to a unipolar world order with a single superpower to impose its will in places like Kuwait, Serbia, and Afghanistan. The emerging world order is not exactly benign – Sept. 11 comes to mind – and Pax Americana delivers neither justice nor harmony to the corners of the earth. But a unipolar world is inherently more peaceful than the bipolar one where two superpowers fueled rival armies around the world. The long-delayed "peace dividend" has arrived, like a tax refund check long lost in the mail. The difference in language between Goldstein and Easterbrook highlights my second problem with "The End of War?" Goldstein rightly refers to the past fifteen years as a "lull" -- a temporary reduction in war and war-related death. The flip side of U.S. hegemony being responsible for the reduction of armed conflict is what would happen if U.S. hegemony were to ever fade away. Easterbrook focuses on the trends that suggest an ever-decreasing amount of armed conflict -- and I hope he's right. But I'm enough of a realist to know that if the U.S. should find its primacy challenged by, say, a really populous non-democratic country on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, all best about the utility of economic interdependence, U.N. peacekeeping, and the spread of democracy are right out the window. UPDATE: To respond to a few thoughts posted by the commenters: 1) To spell things out a bit more clearly -- U.S. hegemony important to the reduction of conflict in two ways. First, U.S. power can act as a powerful if imperfect constraint on pairs of enduring rivals (Greece-Turkey, India-Pakistan) that contemplate war on a regular basis. It can't stop every conflict, but it can blunt a lot of them. Second, and more important to Easterbrook's thesis, U.S. supremacy in conventional military affairs prevents other middle-range states -- China, Russia, India, Great Britain, France, etc. -- from challenging the U.S. or each other in a war. It would be suicide for anyone to fight a war with the U.S., and if any of these countries waged a war with each other, the </span>


===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC – Plan </span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should increase its investment in lunar depots through a Public Private Partnership in the United States.</span>**

===1AC – Solvency=== 
**Same as above** 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]