[[toc]]
=Round 1 vs. Carriers Aff= 

1nc -- south korea counterplan

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase Republic of Korea investment in United States aircraft carriers. Contracts to the Republic of Korea will include a provision that requires United States aircraft carriers as the top priority.**

**The CP solves the case better and more efficiently**
**Truscott 10** (William Truscott, Cadet, Virginia Military Institute, “The Jones Act and Its Effect on International Trade,” December 9, 2010, pg. 2)
The most affordable form of…, and lower transportation costs.

**Specifically, the ROK can and should build carriers --- the US has __zero__ expertise and __South Korea is the best__**
**Truscott 10** (William Truscott, Cadet, Virginia Military Institute, “The Jones Act and Its Effect on International Trade,” December 9, 2010, pgs. 4-5)
Additionally driving up costs for American firms are …. know American shipping firms must buy from them.

2nc -- at: perm do the cp

**Perm severs --- “in” means inclusion within --- “investment” must occur within the US**
**Random House 12** (Unabridged Dictionary, “in”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t)
In [in] Show IPA preposition…, a place, or limits): walking in the park.

**That requires infrastructure __construction__**
**Collenette 99** – Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual report[[http://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf]]
Whether made by business or ….on existing infrastructure, machinery and equipment.

1nc -- carrier tradeoff disad

**Navy is focusing on investment in clean energy now but costs are rising --- __holding the line__ for the budget is critical to success**
**Cassata 11/28** (Donna Cassata, Associated Press, “Pentagon's Clean Energy Investment Given Green Light By The Senate,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/29/pentagon-clean-green-alternative-energy_n_2207052.html)
During the debate, Udall pointed out …. cuts the Pentagon can't afford spending money on green energy projects.

**The Senate has green-lighted the investment --- solves oil dependence**
**Cassata 11/28** (Donna Cassata, Associated Press, “Pentagon's Clean Energy Investment Given Green Light By The Senate,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/29/pentagon-clean-green-alternative-energy_n_2207052.html)
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Senate on … sources in the next decade to ease dependence on foreign oil.

**But the plan __trades-off__ --- even just __building__ a __single__ carrier costs 20% of the __entire__ budget**
**Borchgrave 11** – Arnaud de Borchgrave, an American journalist who specializes in international politics, editor for Washington Times and United Press International, and project director for Transnational Threats and Senior Advisor for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Shining citadel redux; US can’t afford to spend as much as rest of world combined on defense,” The Washington Times, 31 May 2011)
Now at $14.3 trillion, the national debt … This would save about $100 billion. The Navy's current budget: $150 billion.

**Extinction**
**Riddoch 04** (Malcolm, Faculty of Communications and Creative Industries at Edith Cowan University, 6/19/2004, http://www.melbourne.indymedia.org/news/2004/06/72000_comment.php)
There are lots of recent 2004 reports … mean the extinction of the human species through global nuclear war and its companions famine and pestilence.

**2nc -- at: japan alliance add-on**

**Aircraft carriers destroy the alliance --- results in broader kickout --- which internal link turns their deterrence impact**
**Auslin 10** (Michael, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute, “The Real Futenma Fallout” 6/22/10[[http://www.aei.org/article/102196]])
Japanese military officials worry that this year's protests in …. aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters.

**They don’t access their own impact --- alliance is resilient**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Okamoto 2</span>** (Yukio, President – Okamoto Associates, Washington Quarterly, Spring, Lexis)
Given the magnitude of the danger …. between two democratic states is well-nigh unbreakable -- because there are no acceptable alternatives.

**1nc -- buy america disad**

**The world is on the brink of protectionism --- new policies could push us over the edge**
**FT, 4/15** (Citing the director-general of the WTO “FINANCIAL TIMES: Beware rising protectionism,” 2013, Business Day Live, http://www.bdlive.co.za/opinion/editorials/2013/04/15/financial-times-beware-rising-protectionism)
WITH only a few months left before his term as director-….reported that protectionist policies are rising.

**The plan’s US investment in the U.S. requires contractors to abide with __“Buy America” provisions__**
**Morton**, 5/10/**12** (Peter, “Buy America spectre rises again” Hamilton Spectator, lexis)
Canadian companies hoping to bid on …. $787-billion economic stimulus bill.

**This threatens __global protectionism__ and __economic collapse__**
**Oppenheimer, 9** (2/5/, Andres – Latin America correspondent for the Miami Herald, Reject ‘Buy American’ clause or risk a trade war, The Salt Lake Tribune, p. Lexis)
Forget about Iraq, the Middle East or searching for a new …. it sends to the rest of the world.

**Global nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Panzner 8</span>—25-year veteran of the markets who has worked for for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and J.P. Morgan Chase. New York Institute of Finance faculty member and a graduate of Columbia University. (Michael, Financial Armageddon, 136-8)
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and … stepped-up confl icts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

2nc -- at: no link

**Federal aviation projects have ‘Buy American’ restrictions**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Canada International No Date</span> (Government of Canada, “Buy American Act and Aviation Projects” [[http://www.canadainternational.gc.ca/sell2usgov-vendreaugouvusa/procurement-marches/aviation.aspx?lang=eng&view=d]])
The vast majority of …. While not an outright prohibition, these requirements are a significant barrier.

**Airports are under ‘Buy American’**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Waldron et al. 9</span> (Roger Waldron , Carol J. Bilzi and Simeon M. Kriesberg, President at The Coalition for Government Procurement, Counselor of International Trade Law and Regulations, Top Lawyer on US Export Laws and Partner at Mayer Brown, Mondaq, “United States: Meeting the Recovery Act's Buy American Standards: US and Foreign Firms Face Complicated Regulatory Guidelines,” May 12, 2009, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T15212025822&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T15212025826&cisb=22_T15212025825&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=149522&docNo=1]])
Apart from the Recovery Act… Act-funded projects.

2nc -- at: link uniqueness

**Past TI projects that included Buy America were __shut down__ --- no new Buy America will be forwarded --- __only the plan links__**
**Rayner**, 5/8/**2012** (Martin – independent consultant working in the customs brokerage and international trade logistics field, held executive-level positions in the trade logistic industry, “Buy America” Exceptionalism, International Trade Compliance Strategies, p. [[http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/]])
Following defeat of the …. procurement agreements already in place.
=Round 2= 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its Space Elevator investment in the United States.**
==1ac – asteroids== 

<span class="Underline">**The plan enables better detection and deflection capabilities to asteroids**</span>

**a. __Detection__**
**Edwards and Ragan, 6** (“Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator”, Bradley Ph.D. is the president of Carbon Designs Inc., the Director of Research at the Institute for Scientific Research and Philip, pg. 160)
__Protection from asteroids__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __in place today.__

<span class="Underline">**b. Deflection**</span>
**Swan and Swan, 6** (Peter A. Swan Teaching Science and Technology, Cathy W. Swan South West Analytic Network 4/26/2006 “Why do we need a space elevator?” Space Policy volume 22, issue 2 p.86-91 http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science/article/pii/S0265964606000166)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today t</span>he Earth <span class="Underline">…in a timely manner. </span>

**c.** **__Investing__ in the Space Elevator is key to __prioritization__ and __mission focus__**
**Edwards** and Ragan, **6** (“Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator”, Bradley Ph.D. is the president of Carbon Designs Inc., the Director of Research at the Institute for Scientific Research and Philip, pg. 89)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA priorities shift </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> compete for it.</span>

**The plan also expands the budget**
**Lee 12** (John D. Lee, “The Space Elevator: An Increasingly Feasible Proposal,” Scienceray, May 14, 2012, http://scienceray.com/technology/the-space-elevator-an-increasingly-feasible-proposal/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, once … of human resources.</span>

**This is important for maintaining asteroid detection and deflection programs as well**
**National Academies, 09** (National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council have earned a good reputation as the nation's premier source of independent, expert advice on scientific, engineering, and medical issues. “Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12738)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Currently, </span>__the U.S. government …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to achieve them. </span>

**NASA also has operations experience in this field**
**NAC 10** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
__For more than … threatening an impact<span class="Underline">.</span>__

**It’s an existential risk**
**McGuire 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events … in our direction. </span>

**There is a discontinuity between 99% and 100% extinction**
**Matheny, 7** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)
Even if extinction <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of mitigating them.20</span>

**Being wrong just once could potentially result in extinction**
**Barbee 09** (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)//DT
__It is generally … defense against NEOs.__

<span class="Underline">**Studies prove that asteroids are a threat**</span>
**Easterbrook, 8** (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Breakthrough ideas have … on the plane.”</span>

**We need better detection --- status quo leaves too many undetected**
**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
__Several recent events … pose to humanity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**We’re entering a __new cycle__ now --- two cycles ago was a minor impact that put an end to the dinosaurs --- it increases the risk by a factor of ten**
**DG 10** (“A Deadly Orbit?” http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/a-deadly-orbit-the-solar-systems-journey-through-the-milky-way.html)
__Is there a …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> up on re-entry.</span>

**The scarcity of life in the universe makes it likely that the probability of an asteroid strike and its impact is high**
**KAZAN 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, __[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)//DT]]__</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Stephen Hawking believes … in Cambridge, Mass.</span>

<span class="Underline">**An advocacy role in the context of asteroids is important**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morrison et al, 2** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(NASA Astrobiology Institute, David, Alan W. Harris, Geoff Sommer, Clark R. Chapman, Andrea Carusi “ Dealing with the Impact Hazard”</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.disastersrus.org/emtools/spacewx/NEO_Chapter_1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is only … and governmental response.</span>

**Raising the threat level is important as well**
**Kirby 03** (Prof. David A. is a Lecturer in Science Communication at the University of Manchester – Molecular Interventions 3:54-60 –200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span> – http://molinterv.aspetjournals.org/cgi/content/full/3/2/54)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, many advisors perceive fictional film as a way to promote their science in the hope of convincing the public that their research is worthy of increased research funding. Often, advisors will proclaim that the film on which they are working highlights an issue that needs more "attention" from the American public. For example, Near-Earth-Objects (NEOs) permeated the scientific and cultural climate in 1997, the year </span><span class="underline0">Deep Impact and Armageddon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1998), … more research support. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Political discussions alert society of the threat**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morrison et al, 2** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(NASA Astrobiology Institute (David, Alan W. Harris, Geoff Sommer, Clark R. Chapman, Andrea Carusi “ Dealing with the Impact Hazard”</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.disastersrus.org/emtools/spacewx/NEO_Chapter_1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span class="Underline">it is …prediction and prevention.</span>

**Asteroids are __real threats__ that are __not constructed__ and __cannot be answered by philosophy__**
**Zizek, 9** (Slavoj, senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia, and a professor at the European Graduate School, “Zizek! – Full transcript,” http://beanhu.wordpress.com/2009/12/07/zizek/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let’s show them … questions and so on.</span>

**Political policy solutions __come first__ – it’s the __best internal link__ to solving problems**
**Walt, 10** (Stephen M., Professor of International Affairs @ Harvard University, Phd in Political Science @ Cal Berkeley, “What's the matter with the world today?”, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/19/whats_the_matter_with_the_world_today)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">People like me … prefer to avoid. </span>

**Disaster representations are necessary and good**
**Kurasawa 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Fuyuki, Professor of Sociology York University of Toronto.. From Constellations Vol. 11. No.4. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Independently of this …</span><span class="Underline"> **here and now.**</span>

**__Simulating__ government action __spurs action__, __critical thinking__, and stops __elite techno-science__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaminski 12</span> – Amy Paige Kaminski, Senior Policy Advisor to the Chief Scientist at NASA Headquarters and Ph.D. Candidate in Science and Technology Studies at Virginia Tech, “Can the Demos Make a Difference? Prospects for Participatory Democracy in Shaping the Future Course of US Space Exploration”, Space Policy, 28(4), November, p. 227-229
<span class="Underline">Critics</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of such … members of </span><span class="Underline">the public</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


**Space impacts require __specific technical expertise__ to disprove --- __theoretical__ critique means nothing**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yudkowsky 8</span> – Eliezer, Research Fellow and Director of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment of Global Risks”, Global Catastrophic Risks, p. Google Books

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Every true idea …eye off the ball.</span>


**Fixing space policy as a point of stasis enables every benefit of debate --- spurs topic education, critical thinking, decision-making skills --- __uniquely__ encourages student involvement**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snider 4</span> – Alfred C. Snider, Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Vermont, “Space Utilization as a Subject of Academic Debates”, http://er.jsc.nasa.gov/seh/debate.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I. Academic Debate as Interdisciplinary Education</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">on college</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>
=Round 3 vs. Reparations Aff= 

reparations pic -- 1nc (2nr)

**Nate and I advocate that: the United States federal government should substantially increase its uncompensated railroad infrastructure labor reparation investment in the United States.**

**The Aff confuses the term “reparation” with the plural form “reparationS” --- this is an ENTIRELY DIFFERENT process that requires the disenfranchised to PAY the aggressor --- this LINK TURNS the entirety of the Aff because it breeds injustice and means ONLY the CP solves**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Osabu-Kle 00</span> – Daniel, Carleton University, “The African Reparation Cry: Rationale, Estimate, Prospects
and Strategies”, Journal of Black Studies, January, v30, i3, ProQuest
The special history of captive slavery and the …. discriminated against and are justified in taking retaliatory measures against the perpetrators at any time.

gun politics disad -- 1nc

<span class="Underline">**Laws restricting gun-violence research will be done as a result of the aff --- it erodes law enforcement and ensures gun violence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Robertson 4/8/13** (Tod Roberston, writer for Dallas Morning News. "Gun Lobby's Use of Riders to Sneak Past Past Legislative Debate". Dallas News. dallasmorningviewsblog.dallasnews.com/2013/04/23809.html/)</span>
We might have a serious problem with illegal gun …. that would enable law enforcers to trace these guns, that’s where you run into the legal mess that the gun lobby has deliberately created.

<span class="Underline">**to be complicit with gun violence is to be complicit with a culture of violence and catastrophic social destruction - it’s a prior question because it determines the society we seek to become**</span>
**Krieger 12** (David Krieger, founder of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, and has served as President of the Foundation since 1982. 12/21/12. "The Newtown Challenge to America". Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/db_article.php?article_id=430|www.wagingpeace.org/articles/db_article.php?article_id=430]])
The loss of innocent lives to gun violence is a common …. kind of society we choose to be. In our democracy, however imperfect, the future is in our hands.

topicality -- infrastructure

**Interpretation --- transportation infrastructure investment refers to physical __additions__ to transportation --- they have to increase new transportation infrastructure**
**RITA 12** (Research and Innovative Technology Administration, United States Department of Transportation, Patricia Hu, Director, Bureau of Transportation Statistics, “Measuring Transportation Investment: Challenges and Opportunities,” February 9, 2012, http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/Proceedings/InfrastructureInv/HU.pdf)
“Transportation investment is defined as ….. that are used in the provision of transportation services for more than one year.”

**That means the aff not’s topical --- that’s because it’s __financing__ not __investment__**
**Chan et al 09** [March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]
Investment can be regarded as an act of …. (or which might not otherwise have occurred).
=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 
==1ac -- cnt advantage== 

**Current __cost__ and __material availability__ prevents __widespread adoption__ of carbon nanotube technology**
**aerospace-technology.com, 12** ("Carbon nanotube technology -- Q&A with TE Connectivity's Stefanie Harvey", Stephanie Harvey is a principal scientist at TE Connectivity, a Fortune 500 company that provides data communication solutions, www.aerospace-technology.com/features/featurecarbon-nanotube-technology-cnt-military)
JT: Carbon nanotubes have been used in ….. and a slightly slower decrease in cost improvement.

**But, space elevator development __necessitates large scale production__**
**Zyga, 9** ("Long, Stretchy Carbon Nanotubes Could Make Space Elevators Possible", Lisa, January 23, phys.org/news151938445.html)
NASA and its partner, the Spaceward Foundation, … making elastic smoke, which we can then wind up into a fiber." 

**The __only barrier__ is investment**
**Edwards, 9** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies, “Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson”, 12/1/2009, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)
Question: How much of an improvement …. but rather economic and political.

**And, the internal link is __short term__ – investors are __most interested__ in nanotube development**
**Walburn, 3** ("Space Elevators, Chameleon and Robotic Coke Cans", Steve, Atlanta Magazine February 2003 p. 78)
Edwards, who left his job at Los Alamos …. the elevator itself. Carbon nanotube composite could be used in everything to airplanes and buildings.

**Investing in the Space Elevator is critical to carbon nanotube development**
**Smitherman 2k** (DV Smitherman, manager, Advanced Space Infrastructure Workshop on Geostationary Orbiting Tether Space Elevator Concepts, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, “Space Elevators An Advanced Earth-Space Infrastructure for the New Millennium,” NASA, August 2000, http://www.spaceelevator.com/docs/elevator.pdf)
The space elevator concept is …..improved product developments (see 3.1 Materials).
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**First is solar cells ---**</span>

**Carbon nanotube solar cells are __feasible__ apart from __economic barriers__**
**Science Daily, 9** ("Carbon Nanotubes Could Make Efficient Solar Cells", September 11, www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/09/090910151927.htm)
The researchers fabricated, tested ….. University of Michigan, and Ken Bosnick, of the National Institute for Nanotechnology at University of Alberta.

**Solar energy is the __most promising solution__ to __CO2 emissions__** 
**Wang, 12** ("Carbon Nanotube Hybrid Solar Cells", Huiliang, November 19, submitted of Department of Physics graduate program at Stanford University, large.stanford.edu/courses/2012/ph240/wang-hu1/)
Introduction Burning coal and natural gas …. efficient intermedium for the interchain transport. [4]

**Reducing carbon emissions is critical to solve extinction from ocean acidification**
**Romm 12** (Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre)
The world’s oceans may be turning acidic faster today …. oxygen concentration. That is a recipe for mass extinction.

**Even if some species can adapt, coral reefs are __uniquely vulnerable__ --- also causes extinction**
**Leahy 06** (Stephen Leahy, environmental journalist, cites John Guinotte, marine scientist at the Marine Conservation Biology Institute in Washington State, “Climate Change Shattering Marine Food Chain,” Inter Press Service, April 10, 2006, http://www.ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=32843)
BROOKLIN, Canada, Apr 10, 2006 (IPS) - Vast swaths of …. and are unlikely to adapt in time," Guinotte told IPS.

**Independent of ocean acidification, unchecked carbon emissions alone cause __carbon pump explosions__ which cause __extinction__**
<span class="Heading2Char">Brandenberg and Paxon 99</span> (John E. and Monica Rix, Physicist Rocket Scientist, Mars expert, Investigator – MET Project, NASA Technical Advisor, Former Member of Space Transport Subcommittee, Writer and Scientific Editor, Dead Mars, Dying Earth, p. 182-183)
Barring earthquakes, meteor strikes, or a …. catastrophe on a planetary scale.

**Unchecked CO2 increases causes oxygen depletion --- __extinction__**
**Brandenberg 99** (Dr. JohnBrandenberg, Physicist, “Dead Mars, Dying Earth,” p. 209-211)
I had been trying to model Mars’ …. to call Keeling at Scripps, then hung up.

**Second is semiconductors ---**

**Development of carbon nanotubes bolsters semiconductors** 
**Tune, 3** ("UM Physicists Create Best Semiconductor With Nanotube", Lee, December 3, www.newsdesk.umd.edu/archive/release.cfm?year=2003&articleid=848)
COLLEGE PARK, Md. - University of … had to be developed in order to locate the nanotubes on the chip so that wires could be connected to them.

**Reviving semiconductors is key to stop EMP attacks** 
**Spring 94** (Baker Spring, Researcher – Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder, http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/BG987.cfm)
In addition to ensuring the reliability of the existing stockpile, testing …. Swiderek, "Evaluating the Viability of Rad-Hard Fab Lines," Military & Aerospace Electronics, September 20, 1993, pp. 4, 14-15.)

**Extinction** 
**Pry 10** (Peter Vincent, director of the U.S. Nuclear Strategy Forum, “What America Needs to Know About EMPs” http://wethearmed.com/index.php?topic=8450.0)
EMP is not just a threat to computers and electronic gadgets, but to all …. implementation of the EMP Commission's recommendations. 

==2ac -- at: immigration politics disad== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PC not key </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drum 4/22</span> (Kevin, political blogger, “Maureen Dowd and Presidential Leverage”, http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2013/04/maureen-dowd-and-presidential-leverage)
Still and all, maybe this is a good …. a kiss of death with the party's base.

**Executive actions solves** 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kumar 3/19</span> (Anita, “Obama turning to executive power to get what he wants”, 2013, [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2013/03/19/186309/obama-turning-to-executive-power.html#storylink=cpy|http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2013/03/19/186309/obama-turning-to-executive-power.html#storylink=cpy]]
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama came …. not to do it,” the former constitutional professor told The New Republic magazine.

**Boston, Public Approval, Guns, Same-Sex Marriage kills PC and take obama’s attention**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peek 4/22</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Liz, Is Obama already a lame duck?, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/04/22/is-obama-already-lame-duck/#ixzz2RXFNJ9yR|http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/04/22/is-obama-already-lame-duck/#ixzz2RXFNJ9yR]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>
The recent terror attack in Boston is tragic … duck. If it quacks like a lame duck…

**Obama doesn’t get the blame** 
**Tobin, 12** , Jonathan S. Senior Online Editor of //Commentary// magazine with responsibility for managing the editorial content of the website as well as serving as chief politics blogger, he has won more than 50 journalism awards for commentary and editorial writing,10/3/12 http://www.commentarymagazine.com/2012/10/03/obamas-the-real-teflon-president-hampton-university-speech-tape/
In 2008, Americans eager to believe in a post-…. him few cared about it because it contradicted their desire to view the future president as someone who was above such behavior.

**Won’t pass – House, citizenship, election**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McAuliff 4/25</span> (Michael, “House Unveils Immigration Reform Piecemeal Plan; Senators Warn It Is 'Not Going To Work'”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/04/25/immigration-reform-house_n_3155908.html]],
WASHINGTON -- House lawmakers rolled out a …. say that it is far more important that we get this right this time ... than that we live by any particular timetable," Goodlatte said.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New immigrants not key---immigration and visas already increasing</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Porter 2-5 – </span>Eduardo Porter, writer for the New York Times, February 5th, 2013, "Immigration Reform Issue: The Effect on the Budget" [[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/06/business/immigration-reform-issue-the-effect-on-the-budget.html?pagewanted=all&pagewanted=print|www.nytimes.com/2013/02/06/business/immigration-reform-issue-the-effect-on-the-budget.html?pagewanted=all&pagewanted=print]]
Yet immigration reform today means …. of immigration at the University of California, San Diego. “The flow of new immigrants is not the story anymore.”
=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]