[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Evacuation
=Round 2= 
Immigration DA, Case
=Round 3= 
Immigration DA, F-35 DA, Nuclear Testing + move carriers CP
=Round 4= 
Evacuation
=Round 5= 
Alaska CP, Immigration DA, Case
=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1AC Solvency</span>
**Contention (1) is Natural Disasters –** 
**Natural Disasters are increasing and are inevitable – consensus of experts and scientific studies prove** 
**Hays 7/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Report shows increase in natural disasters Email Print Report shows increase in natural disasters Wed, 11 Jul 2012 6:21p.m. Natural disasters are on the increase, says scientists (Reuters) By Samantha Hayes Read more: http://www.3news.co.nz/Report-shows-increase-in-natural-disasters/tabid/1160/articleID/260986/Default.aspx#ixzz2GTTIVQez</span>
2011 was the year of extreme …was 60 times more likely.

**Empirics prove they are inevitable – non-unique spending based DA’s**
**Davenport 2/8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Coral Davenport is the energy and environment correspondent for National Journal. Prior to joining National Journal in 2010, Davenport covered energy and environment for Politico, and before that, for Congressional Quarterly. In 2010, she was a fellow with the Metcalf Institute for Marine and Environmental Reporting. From 2001 to 2004, Davenport worked in Athens, Greece, as a correspondent for numerous publications, including the Christian Science Monitor and USA Today, covering politics, economics, international relations and terrorism in southeastern Europe. She also covered the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, and was a contributing writer to the Fodor’s, Time Out, Eyewitness and Funseekers’ guidebook series. Davenport started her journalism career at the Daily Hampshire Gazette in Northampton, Massachusetts, after graduating from Smith College with a degree in English literature. ]The Scary Truth About How Much Climate Change is Costing You While policymakers fiddle, the threat of economic harm posed by rising sea levels, devastating storms, and drought is growing every day. This article appeared in print as The Cost Of Inaction By Coral Davenport Updated: February 8, 2013 | 2:10 p.m. February 7, 2013 | 4:36 p.m. </span>
In the United States, 2011 and 2012 … if not higher, than doing something about it.”

**Status quo evacuation policies leave many groups vulnerable and unprotected** 
**Associated Press** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">8/31 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees By CAIN BURDEAU | Associated Press http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html</span>
When Hurricane Isaac whirled into the … scientists warn that more will follow.

**Advanced preparation solves and sends a key signal to the public** 
**Hoffman 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Co-Director of Law-Medicine Center, Professor of Law, and Professor of Bioethics, Case Western Reserve University School of Law; Member, The Center for Child Health and Policy at Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio. B.A., Wellesley College; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M. in Health Law, University of Houston Law Center Sharona, "Article: Preparing for Disaster: Protecting the Most Vulnerable in Emergencies," http://lawreview.law.ucdavis.edu/issues/42/5/articles/42-5_Hoffman.pdf</span>
Inadequate preparation for the needs of …that such initiatives are undertaken.

**Absent transportation infrastructure, evacuation fails** 
**Litman et al. 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Todd Litman, Victoria Transport Policy John L. Renne, Ph.D., AICP, University of New Orleans Thomas W. Sanchez, Ph.D., University of Utah Institute National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review http://planning.uno.edu/docs/CarlessEvacuationPlanning.pdf</span>
Public transit is important for …roles that transit agencies can play:

**The federal government is key**
**Renne et al., 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)</span>
Much of the current evacuation literature …emergency response and evacuation plans be multimodal.

**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in optional evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United States.** 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1AC International Credibility</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> </span>
**Contention (2) is International Credibility –** 
**Current disaster response destroys Americans reputation – reverse causal**
**Gaines-Ross 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Leslie Gaines-Ross is a chief reputation strategist and leads public relations firm Weber Shandwick’s global reputation consulting services and proprietary thought leadership development. Dr. Gaines-Ross is also the author of two books, CEO Capital: A Guide to Building CEO Reputation and Company Success (2003) and Corporate Reputation: 12 Steps to Safeguarding and Recovering Reputation (2008). 2012. “Reputation Matters” http://www.europeanbusinessreview.com/?p=356)</span>
A Tipping Point On August 29, 2005, America … are taken, reputation restoration is likely.

**Destroys international credibility and shows lack of competence – plan solves**
**Walt 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in political science and professor of International Affairs Stephen Walt, “The world watches as America attempts its restoration,” 10-19-05</span>
The hurricanes that struck America's Gulf … is watching; we had better not blow it.

**That is necessary to deal with every global threat**
**Jervis 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, professor of international politics at Columbia University. Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009]</span>
To say that the system is unipolar … and believe that its leadership is benign.

**AND it is key to effective foreign policy** 
**Rieffel 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> REACHING OUT: AMERICANS SERVING OVERSEAS By Lex Rieffel Visiting Fellow The Brookings Institution 1775 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20036-2103 December 2005 http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2005/12/07volunteering%20rieffel/20051207rieffel</span>
Arguably the most powerful soft instrument … far beyond the scope of this study.

**AND it’s can deescalate tensions**
**Gowan 1/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Gowan is the associate director for Crisis Management and Peace Operations at New York University’s Center on International Cooperation and a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. His new column for World Politics Review, Diplomatic Fallout, will focus on diplomats, international officials and the crises they manage. It will appear every Monday. Diplomatic Fallout: Obama, Kerry Face Global Diplomacy Shortage By Richard Gowan, on 07 Jan 2013, Column http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/12600/diplomatic-fallout-obama-kerry-face-global-diplomacy-shortage</span>

Ultimately, diplomats and foreign ministers …arguably even more urgent -- and harder.

**These changes affect every part of our global image** 
**Farazmand 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ali Farazmand is a professor of public administration at Florida Atlantic University, where he teaches courses on theory and behavior, personnel, bureaucratic politics, ethics, governance, and globalization. His research and publications include more than 18 authored and edited books and handbooks on topics such as civilization and administration, bureaucratic politics, administrative theory, privatization, globalization, sound governance, organization theory and behavior, strategic personnel administration, administrative reform, and crisis and emergency management. He is the founding editor of the refereed journal Public Organization Review, now in its seventh volume. Learning from the Katrina Crisis: A Global and International Perspective with Implications for Future Crisis Management</span>
Katrina: A Global Case of Grand Failure in Governance …situation during and after the Katrina crisis.

**It solves multiple scenarios for extinction** 
**Barlow 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley, 2K2 (Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values, http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editorial.php#6)</span>
Much of Nye’s analysis is intended to make … of state autonomy in a networked

**Its reverse causal – a lack of adaptation ensures extinction** 
**Farer and Sisk 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Dean of the School of International Studies @ University of Denver & Professor of international and comparative politics @ University of Denver [Tom Farer (Former president of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States (OAS), Former special assistant to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, and Former senior fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) & Timothy D. Sisk (Director of the Center for Sustainable Development and International Peace (SDIP) and Associate fellow of the Geneva Centre for Security Policy), “Enhancing International Cooperation: Between History and Necessity,” </span>__Global Governance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 16 (2010), 1–12]</span>
Among scholars, practitioners, and political leaders …recognizable and morally tolerable form.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1AC Domestic Credibility</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> </span>
**Contention (3) is Domestic Credibility –** 
**Lack of response disrupts legitimacy – destroys government and causes revolutions**
**Farazmand 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ali Farazmand is a professor of public administration at Florida Atlantic University, where he teaches courses on theory and behavior, personnel, bureaucratic politics, ethics, governance, and globalization. His research and publications include more than 18 authored and edited books and handbooks on topics such as civilization and administration, bureaucratic politics, administrative theory, privatization, globalization, sound governance, organization theory and behavior, strategic personnel administration, administrative reform, and crisis and emergency management. He is the founding editor of the refereed journal Public Organization Review, now in its seventh volume. Learning from the Katrina Crisis: A Global and International Perspective with Implications for Future Crisis Management</span>
Throughout history, governments have been … And then the situation worsened.

**It is reverse causal, the plan solves**
**Hoffman 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Co-Director of Law-Medicine Center, Professor of Law, and Professor of Bioethics, Case Western Reserve University School of Law; Member, The Center for Child Health and Policy at Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio. B.A., Wellesley College; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M. in Health Law, University of Houston Law Center Sharona, "Article: Preparing for Disaster: Protecting the Most Vulnerable in Emergencies," http://lawreview.law.ucdavis.edu/issues/42/5/articles/42-5_Hoffman.pdf</span>
A critically important mechanism for … of the disadvantaged during disasters.

**That’s key to democracy and effective government policy**
**Miller and Rivera 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[DeMond Shondell Miller is a Professor of Sociology and Environmental Studies and Director of the Liberal Arts and Sciences Institute for Research and Community Service at Rowan University (Glassboro, New Jersey). His primary area of specialization is environmental sociology (disaster studies and the study of the social construction of place), community development and community organizing, and social impact assessment. Jason David Rivera, M.P.A., is a doctoral student in the program for public affairs and a research assistant at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey – Camden. His research focuses on social vulnerability to natural and manmade disasters with an emphasis on ethnic minority and low-income experiences.] GUIDING PRINCIPLES: REBUILDING TRUST IN GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC POLICY IN THE AFTERMATH OF HURRICANE KATRINA DeMond Shondell Miller, Ph.D. Jason David Rivera, M.P.A. http://jcia.aciajj.org/files/2012/02/Miller-and-Rivera-2.pdf</span>
The trust of a government’s citizens is essential … save the whiter parts of the city” (The Associated Press, 2005, p. 2).

**That solves war – studies prove our impact**
**Lappin 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">phd candidate at the centre for peace research and strategic studies at the catholic university of leuven in belgium under the supervision of prof. Dr. Luc reychler</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Lappin, What Democracy? Exploring the Absent Centre of Post-Conflict Democracy Assistance, Journal of Peace, Conflict and Development, Issue 14, July 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/JPCD_ExploringAbsentCentrePostConflictDemocracyAssistance.pdf]]</span>
Security The relationship between democracy … 24 which, according to Ted Gurr, ―inhibits communal rebellion<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">‖</span> 25 .

**Independently, solves civic engagement** 
**Biladeau 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pamela, Metropolitan State University & Roseville Fire Department, Thesis for the Masters of Arts in Security Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, “STRENGTHENING AND EXPANDING THE CITIZEN CORPS”, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445335&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
Restoring social connections, mores, and trust … various stakeholders can be achieved.

**That can solve multiple existential risks**
**Small 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>
What will be the challenges of the new …specific and political meaning in this context.

**There is statistical support for our impacts**
**Paffenholz and Spurk 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PAPERS Conflict Prevention and Reconstruction Paper No. 36 / October 2006 Civil Society, Civic Engagement, and Peacebuilding Thania Paffenholz Christoph Spurk [Thania Paffenholz teaches peace and development studies at the University of Geneva and Berne/Switzerland and has vast field experience in different conflict zones in Africa and Asia. She received her Ph.D. in international relations focusing on the theory and practice of mediation and peacebuilding in civil wars from the University of Frankfurt, Germany (1996). She has been peacebuilding advisor for the European Commission in the Horn of Africa for four years, has participated in different UN missions, and is currently an advisor to a variety of different governments and agencies, including the UN. She is also a member of the Executive Committee of the International Studies Association’s Peace Studies Section. Her recent books include Peacebuilding: A Field Guide and Community-based Bottom-up Peacebuilding. She can be contacted at: paffenholz@ipw.unibe.ch.] [Christoph Spurk teaches media and development at the Institute of Applied Media Studies at the Zurich University of Applied Sciences Winterthur (ZHW), Switzerland, and heads the research unit Media in International Cooperation. He holds an M.A. in agricultural economics, has worked for many years as a journalist, and later as consultant in the field of media and communication in development cooperation, with field experience in Africa and the South Caucasus. He is also author of Media and Peacebuilding: Concepts, Actors and Challenges. He can be contacted at: spu@zhwin.ch.] http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTCPR/Resources/WP36_web.pdf</span>
Civil society has important roles to … bridging ties across divided societies.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]