[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
1AC - Poetry Aff
1NC - F/W, Gendered Language, Author PIK,
Counter-Poem
2NR - F/W / Counter-Poem

=Round 2= 
plan the united states federal government should substantially increase its investment in port and waterway infrastructure in the united states

1ac – economy

**ports and waterways are constrained and filled with congestion and higher costs --- these impedes economic competitiveness**
**O’Hare, 1/28 –** (Kerry, Transportation Journal “US risks falling behind competition,” [[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2013/01/ports-matter-too.php#2294228|http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2013/01/ports-matter-too.php#2294228]])

Ports are indeed integral to the U.S. economy. Trade between the U.S. and other countries increased by 13 percent a year between 2003 and 2008. Our freight transportation system was not built for the explosive growth of coast-to-coast shipping and international trade experienced over the past two decades, and our economically vital gateways and corridors – our primary port, road, and rail routes for shipping goods in and out of the country – now operate at or over capacity. Congestion plagues our freight corridors and acts as a drag on the American economy as a whole. In Chicago, the nation’s biggest rail center, congestion is so bad that it takes a freight train longer to get through the city limits than it does to get to Los Angeles. Freight moving by water is slowed by similar constraints on capacity and limitations of aging infrastructure. Many of our ports were built for the last century’s economy, without sufficient intermodal access for increased container traffic. And only two East Coast ports can currently accommodate the post-Panamax ships that will become more common with the widening of the Panama Canal. As described in our Falling Apart and Falling Behind report, our inland waterways are similarly overburdened as dozens of locks along major inland shipping routes are past their 50-year lifespan, and some are more than a century old and showing their age. The bottom line is that delays in freight movement impose real costs on businesses that reduce productivity, impede our economic competitiveness and increase prices for consumers. It is clearly time for policymakers to get serious about modernizing the nation’s infrastructure policy. We need a long term strategy that prioritizes investment in our economically vital gateways and corridors and on projects that will provide the greatest economic returns. MAP-21 has started to lay the groundwork for much needed policy reforms with regard to surface transportation but more needs to be done. For example, it has been roughly five years since Congress approved that last WRDA bill. This looks to change in the 113th Congress as both Chairmen Shuster and Boxer have made passage of a new WRDA a bill a priority for both of their committees. That is welcome news.

**these inefficiencies deck export and import pricing --- it causes significant gdp losses and jacks up prices of goods**
**ASCE, 1/29 –** (Army Society of Engineer, Every four years, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) publishes The Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, which grades the current state of the nation’s infrastructure categories, “Failure to Act,” [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Failure_to_Act/Failure_to_Act_Report.pdf]])

The U.S. inland waterway system consists of over 12,000 miles of inland and intracoastal waterways, with over 240 lock chambers, along with over 300 commercial harbors. Domestically, this system accounts for 10% of all tonnage moved in the United States and almost 20 percent of the total value of all freight transported over the entire U.S. transportation system. This includes approximately 56% of all crude petroleum, 15% of all coal, and 24% of other fuel oils, which alone affect the efficiency of all economic sectors that rely on energy. In addition, 70% of U.S. imports arrive by water, including 86% of crude petroleum imports, as well as approximately 76% of U.S. exports (by tonnage), accounting for approximately 35% of total exports by value. If America’s current level of investment in its inland waterways and marine ports continues, the losses to its economy will increase shipping costs. The toll of these impacts will be seen in GDP losses that will accumulate every year— from a loss of almost $95 billion in 2020 to over $255 billion by 2040. The cumulative loss in national GDP through 2040 will be over $4.0 trillion—driven by the rising costs to import and export goods and declining competitiveness. In turn, these effects will result in over 738,000 fewer jobs in 2020. By 2040, the job losses will grow to over 1.3 million—jobs that will be lost by the nation’s lack of competitiveness in global trade and because households and businesses will be spending more for commodities that move within the U.S. on inland waterways and for goods that are imported

**This also drives the US out of the global market for trade**
**ASCE, 1/29 –** (Army Society of Engineer, Every four years, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) publishes The Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, which grades the current state of the nation’s infrastructure categories, “Failure to Act,” [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Failure_to_Act/Failure_to_Act_Report.pdf]])

the u.S. economy relies on low transportation costs and the reliable delivery of clean water and electricity to businesses and households to offset higher wage levels and costs of production when compared with many of america’s competitors. However, this report series shows that business costs and therefore prices will increase if surface transportation systems worsen; ports and inland waterways become outdated or congested; and if water, wastewater, and electricity infrastructure systems deteriorate or fail to keep up with changing demand. Greater costs to transport the wide array of imported goods that supply u.S. domestic manufacturers and rising costs for exports will affect the nation’s ability to compete in global markets for goods produced in the u.S., while irregular delivery of water and wastewater services and electricity will make production processes more expensive and divert household disposable income to these basic necessities.

**We control the structural underpinnings of the economy --- growth is impossible with underinvestment in infrastructure --- it affects every major sector and the innovative potential of the economy**
**ASCE, 1/29 –** (Army Society of Engineer, Every four years, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) publishes The Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, which grades the current state of the nation’s infrastructure categories, “Failure to Act,” [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Failure_to_Act/Failure_to_Act_Report.pdf]])

By 2020, the economy is expected to lose almost 3.5 million jobs, and mounting impacts from underinvestment in infrastructure will result in nearly 7 million jobs lost by 2040.4 Tables 5 and 6 show that the economic benefits of infrastructure investment **reverberate** through every sector of the economy and are exacerbated over time as needed investments are deferred.5 Tables 5 and 6 show that the impacts by sector will shift by 2040, as the gaps between infrastructure needs and investment widens and the economy has time to adjust to lower levels of services. Large, labor-intensive industries such as retail, medical services, and restaurants will be particularly hard hit by 2040. This is the long-term result of households earning less disposable income and reducing purchases (restaurant meals, home improvements, consumer electronics, new furniture for examples), deferring services (medical care), and the long-term reduction in business sales that will particularly affect construction spending. By 2040, the key sectors related to America’s innovation and knowledge base—including aerospace, air transportation, business services, professional services, and finance—will all be among the hardest-hit in terms of sales and industry sales. Primarily, these impacts are due to: (1) fewer purchases for higher priced goods and services by both households and businesses in adjusting to declining business sales and lower disposable personal income; (2) higher production costs, transportation costs and a less efficient supply chain reduces the competitiveness of U.S. produced exports; (3) supply-chain impediments, including the costs of transportation, inefficiencies at ports that increase the costs of products; and (4) a redistribution of business revenues from R&D, major purchases and higher priced business services in order to pay for higher costs of transportation, water and energy. Even though net job impacts are counted in millions of jobs lost from the U.S. due to insufficient infrastructure investment, overall economic impacts in dollars lost in the economy, measured by business sales and GDP will be more dramatic than impacts on overall number of jobs. Job losses in part will be mitigated by more people working for less money. Many of these jobs will replace technology-based and education industry jobs that are the basis of long-term economic development. In 2020, the United States population is predicted to exceed 340 million people and the national population is expected to grow to more than 400 million by 2040. Workers will still be needed to provide basic and a reduced level of luxury products and services to this population. The impact of declining business productivity due to inefficient infrastructure may add some jobs to the economy even as income is declining. As an example, in 2020 and 2040, deficient infrastructure is expected to negatively affect the value of agriculture sales and exports as shipping costs rise. However, even though this sector’s sales and exports will fall, more workers will be needed in 2020 to produce and supply its products, as shown in table 7. Other sectors that will increase job shares by 2020 are automobile repair services, truck driving, and highway passenger services. These findings are consistent with those of the previous Failure to Act study on surface transportation, because poor pavement conditions and deficient roads will cause more damage to vehicles, slower travel times will require more drivers and crews, and a degrading inland waterway system and congested air space will lead more people to travel by car and more goods to be shipped by truck.

**Public sector unemployment increasing --- that hampers the recovery**
**Callahan, 13-**
(David, senior fellow at Demo, 1/4/13, “Madness In December Employment Numbers,” [[http://prospect.org/article/madness-december-employment-numbers]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The new job numbers are out</span> and, at first glance, there is nothing surprising here. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Job growth continued to inch upward in December, with 155,000 new jobs added.</span> Of course, with several million young people joining the labor force every year, numbers like <span style="text-decoration: none;">these don't actually amount to growth. </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">We are just running in place</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. </span>
But here's a statistic that jumped out at me: <span style="text-decoration: none;">89,000 public sector workers </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">lost</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> their jobs</span> in October, November, and December—with most of those losses, 66,000, occurring in October.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">These numbers are revised figures that are much higher than what appeared in the past BLS employment releases</span>, so for some reason the BLS tends to lag behind in capturing the full scope of government layoffs in a timely fashion.
Anyway, back to the main point: <span style="text-decoration: none;">Large-scale layoffs of government workers </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">continue</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> across the United States</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Such layoffs </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">undermine</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> local economies and </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">stymie</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> the recovery</span>. For every five workers who were hired in the past three months, one was laid off by government.
This doesn't make sense. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Government</span> may not always do such a great job of stimulating employment growth through fiscal and monetary policy, but it sure as heck <span style="text-decoration: none;">can bolster the job market by continuing to employ those people who do have jobs. Instead, thanks to </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">austerity policies</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, government has been doing the </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">exact opposite.</span>//
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Many of these laid off workers will get on unemployment and perhaps collect other government benefits such as food stamps</span>, the EITC, or SCHIP. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They also, obviously, will no longer be paying taxes</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">So quite apart from the human costs and economic costs, in terms of </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">depressed consumer spending</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">layoffs</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> of public workers don't deliver all of the </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">fiscal gains</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> imagined because the unemployed cost government money while no longer contributing to the tax base.</span>


**Infrastructure stimulus is uniquely key to the economy – it has a high multiplier and productivity effect, and creates many of jobs – comparatively outweighs other forms of stimulus**
Han, 3/14-
(Xue, Luxembourg Garden Fellow, Global Infrastructure Asset Management LLC, “Public Policy: Why Invest in Infrastructure?,” [[http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Publication-Why_Invest_In_Infrastructure.html]])

This research paper examines the necessities and benefits of <span style="text-decoration: none;">investments in infrastructure under the current condition of deficient infrastructure and contractive economic climate in the United States</span>. The first section of this paper reviews the insufficient infrastructure investment during recent years, and carefully examines the poor conditions of major infrastructure. Due to a falling investment rate from 1980 to the present, a 2.7% annual average growth rate compares unfavorably to the 4.0% growth rate during the period 1950-79. <span style="text-decoration: none;">As a consequence, the country's infrastructure has deteriorated badly over the past generation and has received an average grade of D in the 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). Such deficit in infrastructure is costing the U.S. economy $129 million a year</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This paper further assesses the additional investments needed for maintenance or improvement of the core economic infrastructure</span>, which include transportation, public school building, water and energy infrastructure, and reaches the conclusion that additional spending of between $73 billion and $132 billion is needed per year to maintain and improve these infrastructure assets. The second section explores the anticipated benefits of these investments including (a) substantial increases in the productivity of the economy, (b) a highly beneficial fiscal multiplier effect to increase wealth, and (c) improved employment effects. With the economy still in the prolonged slump after the financial crisis in 2008, the stimulating effects of //<span style="text-decoration: none;">infrastructure investments on economic growth becomes even more important for speeding up the recovery.</span>// Conclusion //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Productivity Effect</span>//. Both <span style="text-decoration: none;">fundamental theories and statistical evidences indicate that investments in public infrastructure improve private-sector productivity</span>, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">leading to a "crowding-in" instead of "crowding-out" of private investments.</span>// More specifically, as suggested by Heintz, Pollin and Peltier, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a sustained one-percentage point increase in the growth rate of core public economic infrastructure leads to an increase in the growth rate of private sector GDP of 0.6 percentage points. </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Multiplier Effect</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Due to its relatively larger multiplier effects compared to other types of spending, infrastructure investment provides a strong stimulus to economic growth even without consideration of its productivity impact.</span> Using the reliable estimates on employment generated from an Input-Output model in How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy (Heintz, Pollin and Peltier, 2009) and a solid assumption on the relationship between GDP increase and employment effects made by Romer and Bernstein, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">we estimate the multiplier effect featured by investment specifically in infrastructure at 2.8</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, meaningfully larger than the general multiplier of all forms of fiscal stimulus of 1.88</span>, as estimated in my previous research Deficit Reduction and Multiplier Effects. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Employment Effect</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The employment effects of infrastructure investment come in three ways: direct effects, indirect effects and induced effects</span>. As estimated in How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy (Heintz, Pollin and Peltier, 2009), <span style="text-decoration: none;">each $1 billion in infrastructure investment will generate between 9,819 and 17,784 jobs if we consider only direct and indirect effects and between 14,515 and 23,784 jobs if we account for induced effects</span>, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">which is far beyond the number of jobs created with the same amount of investment in tax cuts.</span>//

**If states do it, they collapse the economy**
Oliff, 6/27-
(Phil <span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">Policy Analyst with the State Fiscal Project, “States continue to feel Recession’s impacts”, Center for budget and policy priorities, </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=711]]</span>)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In states facing budget gaps, the consequences are severe</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> in many cases — for residents as well as the economy. To date, budget </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">difficulties</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> have </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">led</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> at least </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">46 states to reduce services</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> for their residents, including some of their most vulnerable families and individuals.<span style="color: #003466;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=711#_ftn4|[4] ]]</span></span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">More than 30 states have raised taxes</span>//<span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> to at least some degree, in some cases quite significantly. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">If revenues remain depressed</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">, as is expected in many states, ad</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ditional spending and service cuts are likely</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">. Indeed, a number </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">of states have made substantial cuts</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> to balance their budgets for fiscal year 2013. While data are not yet available that would show the mix of state actions to resolve their budget gaps for 2013, the data through 2012 show that states have enacted more and more spending cuts every year since 2008. Federal aid and state tax increases have played diminishing roles in addressing the gaps, as the emergency federal aid ended and the elections of 2010 changed the political leadership in a number of states.<span style="color: #003466;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=711#_ftn5|[5] ]]</span> Spending </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">cuts</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> are problematic during an economic downturn because they </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">reduceoverall demandand</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> can </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">make the downturn deeper</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">When states cut spending, they lay off employees, cancel contracts with vendors, eliminate or lower payments to businesses and nonprofit organizations that provide direct services, and cut benefit payments to individual</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">s. In all of these circumstances, the companies and organizations that would have received government payments have less money to spend on salaries and supplies, and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">individuals</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> who </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">would have</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> received salaries or benefits have </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">less money for consumption</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;">. This directly removes demand from the economy. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Tax increases</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> also </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">remove demand</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> from the economy </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">by reducing the amount of money people have to spend.</span><span style="color: #434749; font-family: Arial;"> However, to the extent these increases are on upper-income residents, that effect is minimized. This is because these residents tend to save a larger share of their income, and thus much of the money generated by a tax increase on upper income residents comes from savings and so does not diminish economic activity. At the state level, a balanced approach to closing deficits — raising taxes along with enacting budget cuts — is needed to close state budget gaps in order to maintain important services while minimizing harmful effects on the economy. Ultimately, the actions needed to address state budget shortfalls place a considerable number of jobs at risk. The roughly $55 billion shortfall that states have faced for fiscal year 2013 equals about 0.36 percent of GDP. Assuming that economic activity declines by one dollar for every dollar that states cut spending or raise taxes, and based on a rule of thumb that a one percentage point loss of GDP costs the economy 1 million jobs, the state </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">shortfalls projected to date could prevent the creation of 360,000 public- and private-sector jobs next year. </span>//
**Jobs and decrease consumer spending is the most proximate cause to a double dip**
Tyson, 11-
(Laura, Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">jobs deficit</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, </span>not the budget deficit. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Nearly 14 million Americans are unemployed, another 8.4 million are working part time because they cannot find full-time jobs</span>, and yet another 2.8 million want a job and are available to work but have given up an active search. <span style="text-decoration: none;">At 64 percent, the labor force participation rate is lower than it has been in nearly three decades. The magnitude of this jobs crisis we’re in is best measured by the jobs gap</span>—the number of jobs the U.S. economy needs to add in order to return to its pre 2008-2009 employment level and absorb new entrants to the work force since then. T<span style="text-decoration: none;">he jobs gap at the end of August was more than 12 million jobs. Even at double the rate of employment growth realized during the last year, </span>it would take more than 12 years for the U.S. economy to close this gap. The U.S. labor market, long admired for its flexibility and strength, is badly broken. Most American jobs are in the private sector, and private sector jobs have in fact been growing for 17 consecutive months; indeed, the private sector added about 1.8 million nonfarm payroll jobs during the last year. This pace of job creation is faster than during the previous recovery in the early 2000s and in line with the recovery of the early 1990s. But there’s one major problem: <span style="text-decoration: none;">Private-sector job losses were more than twice as large in the recent recession as in the previous two, and job growth has fallen far short of what is necessary</span> to offset these losses. In addition, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">public-sector employment has been declining in this recovery</span>//—this in contrast to other postwar recovery periods, in which such employment has increased. <span style="text-decoration: none;">We’ve lost 550,000 public-sector positions in the last year alone, making the jobs crisis even more severe. </span>Since the private sector creates (and eliminates) most jobs in the United States, and since <span style="text-decoration: none;">budget constraints will likely mean more painful cuts in public-sector employment for the foreseeable future</span>, Americans are understandably looking to business for solutions to the jobs crisis. To uncover the business solutions that could work, however, we first must acknowledge <span style="text-decoration: none;">the fundamental cause of the problem: </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">the dramatic collapse in aggregate demand</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> that began with the 2008 financial crisis and that triggered huge job losses. </span>Even with unprecedented amounts of monetary and fiscal stimulus, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the recovery has been weak because </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">consumers</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> have </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">curbed their spending</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, increased their saving and started to reduce their personal debt</span>. And they still have a long way to go. Business surveys confirm that for both large and small companies, the primary constraint on job growth is weak demand, not regulation or taxation. In the apt words of a small business owner, “<span style="text-decoration: none;">If you don’t have the demand, you don’t hire the people.”</span>

**US fuels the global economy**
Perry 12 – PhD, professor of economics and finance in the School of Management at the Flint campus of the University of Michigan
Mark, “U.S. Emerges As A Main Engine of Global Growth,” http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/04/us-emerging-as-main-engine-of-global.html
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">The U.S.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> once again</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> may be emerging as a </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">//<span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">main engine</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> for global growth</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> -- </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">and at an opportune time, as Europe slides</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> into recession </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">and China’s economy decelerates. An improving job market, rising stock prices and easier credit are combining to lift U.S. consumer confidence and spending</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, with optimism measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index near a four-year high. Personal-consumption expenditures increased by the most in seven months in February, rising 0.8 percent, the Commerce Department said last week. “</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">We’re entering a sweet spot for the economy</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">,” said Allen Sinai, president of Decision Economics Inc. in New York. “</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">We’re in a self-reinforcing cycle,” where faster employment growth leads to higher household income and increased consumer spending</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">The U.S. is </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">//<span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">taking the lead</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> in global growth</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, thanks in part to a domestic glut of natural gas, Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays in New York, wrote in a March 22 report. Natural-gas futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to 10-year lows last week, helping to blunt the impact of higher oil prices on the economy. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">U.S. manufacturers are benefiting</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">, with the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index climbing to 53.4 (NAPMPMI) last month, beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, from 52.4 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The recovery “has been an emerging-market -- really a Chinese-led -- story, with the U.S. having lagged the cycle,” Kantor said. “Now, however, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">the U.S. has reasserted its traditional role, and the current pickup in growth is </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">//<span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">clearly being led </span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">by the U.S.”</span>

Economic decline triggers nuclear war --- causes terrorism, protectionism and war over resources
Harris and Burrows 9<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (</span>Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]) </span>
Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, <span style="text-decoration: none;">history may be more instructive than ever</span>. While we continue to believe that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Great Depression</span> is not likely to be repeated, the <span style="text-decoration: none;">lessons</span> to be drawn from that period <span style="text-decoration: none;">include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies</span> (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) <span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span> on the <span style="text-decoration: none;">sustainability of multilateral institutions</span> (think League of Nations in the same period). <span style="text-decoration: none;">There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century.</span> For that reason, the ways in which <span style="text-decoration: none;">the potential for greater conflict could grow</span> would seem to be even more apt <span style="text-decoration: none;">in a constantly volatile economic environment</span> as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced.</span> For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Terrorist groups</span> in 2025 <span style="text-decoration: none;">will</span> likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that <span style="text-decoration: none;">become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">in an economic downturn</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would</span> almost certainly <span style="text-decoration: none;">be the Middle East</span>. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, <span style="text-decoration: none;">worries</span> about a nuclear-armed Iran <span style="text-decoration: none;">could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions</span>. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity <span style="text-decoration: none;">conflict</span> and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella <span style="text-decoration: none;">could lead to an **unintended escalation** and broader conflict</span> if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals</span> combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also <span style="text-decoration: none;">will produce inherent difficulties</span> in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, <span style="text-decoration: none;">short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty </span>of Iranian intentions <span style="text-decoration: none;">may place more focus on preemption</span> rather than defense, potentially <span style="text-decoration: none;">leading to **escalating** **crises**.</span> 36 Types of <span style="text-decoration: none;">conflict</span> that the world continues to experience, such as <span style="text-decoration: none;">over resources, could reemerge</span>, particularly if <span style="text-decoration: none;">protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions</span> of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this <span style="text-decoration: none;">could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources,</span> for example, to be <span style="text-decoration: none;">essential for</span> maintaining domestic stability and the <span style="text-decoration: none;">survival of their regime</span>. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">fiscal stimulus focus for</span> these <span style="text-decoration: none;">countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional</span> naval <span style="text-decoration: none;">capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves</span>, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. <span style="text-decoration: none;">With water</span> also <span style="text-decoration: none;">becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war**
**Gartzke 11** – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” are dominated by powerful, militarily capable countries. These countries could fight each other, but are not inclined to [fight] do so. At the same time, weaker developing nations that continue to exercise force in traditional ways are incapable of projecting power against the developed world, with the exception of unconventional methods, such as terrorism. The world is thus divided between those who could use force but prefer not to (at least not against each other) and those who would be willing to fight but lack the material means to fight far from home. Warfare in the modern world has thus become an activity involving weak (usually neighboring) nations, with intervention by powerful (geographically distant) states in a policing capacity. So, the riddle of peace boils down to why capable nations are not fighting each other. There are several explanations, as Mack has pointed out. The easiest, and I think the best, explanation has to do with an absence of motive. Modern states find little incentive to bicker over tangible property, since armies are expensive and the goods that can be looted are no longer of considerable value. Ironically, this is exactly the explanation that Norman Angell famously supplied before the World Wars. Yet, today the evidence is abundant that the most prosperous, capable nations prefer to buy rather than take. Decolonization, for example, divested European powers of territories that were increasingly expensive to administer and which contained tangible assets of limited value. Of comparable importance is the move to **substantial** consensus among powerful nations about how international affairs should be conducted. The great rivalries of the twentieth century were ideological rather than territorial. These have been substantially resolved, as Francis Fukuyama has pointed out. The fact that remaining differences are moderate, while the benefits of acting in concert are large (due to economic interdependence in particular) means that **nations prefer to deliberate rather than fight**. Differences remain, but for the most part the capable countries of the world have been in consensus, while the disgruntled developing world is incapable of acting on respective nations’ dissatisfaction. While this version of events explains the partial peace bestowed on the developed world, it also poses challenges in terms of the future. The rising nations of Asia in particular have not been equalbeneficiaries in the world political system. These nations have benefited from economic integration, and this has proved sufficient in the past to pacify them. The question for the future is whether the benefits of tangible resources through markets are sufficient to compensate the rising powers for their lack of influence in the policy sphere. The danger is that established powers may be slow to accommodate or give way to the demands of rising powers from Asia and elsewhere, leading to divisions over the intangible domain of policy and politics. Optimists argue that at the same time that these nations are rising in power, their domestic situations are evolving in a way that makes their interests more similar to the West. Consumerism, democracy, and a market orientation all help to draw the rising powers in as fellow travelers in an expanding zone of peace among the developed nations. Pessimists argue instead that capabilities among the rising powers are growing faster than their affinity for western values, or even that fundamental differences exist among the interests of first- and second-wave powers that cannot be bridged by the presence of market mechanisms or McDonald’s restaurants. If the peace observed among western, developed nations is to prove durable, it must be because warfare proves futile as nations transition to prosperity. Whether this will happen depends on the rate of change in interests and capabilities, a difficult thing to judge. We must hope that the optimistic view is correct, that what ended war in Europe can be exported globally. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Prosperity has made war expensive</span>//, while the fruits of conflict, both in terms of tangible and intangible spoils have declined in value. These forces are not guaranteed to prevail indefinitely. Already, research on robotic warfare promises to lower the cost of conquest. If in addition, fundamental differences among capable communities arise, then warfare over ideology or policy can also be resurrected. We must all hope that the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.

**Protectionism snowballs and causes nuclear war**
**Panzner 8** – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to **full-scale military encounters,** often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles **soaked in blood**. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.



1ac – navy

**Without port dredging, kills the maritime industry --- light-loading**
Weakley, 8-
(President, Lake Carriers´ Association, “Realize America's Maritime Promise Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition,” [[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/49/102.shtml
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Port-related jobs are critical to augment our economy</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Direct and indirect jobs generated by ports result in the employment of more than 8 million Americans who earned and spent $314.5 billion in 2006. Every $1 billion in exports alone creates an estimated 15, 000 new jobs</span>. In Texas alone one in every four jobs is linked to trade. <span style="text-decoration: none;">America´s deep-draft navigation system is at a crossroads, with a future that can be bright or bleak</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Our waterways´ ability to support</span> the Nation?s <span style="text-decoration: none;">continuing growth in trade and in the defense of our Nation, hinges on</span> much-needed <span style="text-decoration: none;">Federal attention to unresolved funding needs that are derailing critical channel maintenance and deep-draft construction projects of the water highways to our ports.</span> Because most <span style="text-decoration: none;">ports</span> do not <span style="text-decoration: none;">have naturally deep harbors</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">they must be regularly dredged to allow ships to move safely through Federal navigation channels</span>. Also, as <span style="text-decoration: none;">modern vessels increase in size, navigation channel depths must increase accordingly</span>, if we are to continue to be a player on the international marketplace. A recent U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study reports that almost <span style="text-decoration: none;">30 percent of the 95, 550 vessel calls at U.S. ports are constrained due to inadequate channel depths</span>. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the things that cause port directors nightmares. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Without a channel dredged</span> to its authorized depth, <span style="text-decoration: none;">nothing else comes into play</span>. Attracting new customers, dealing with labor issues, environmental concerns, and the public - all go away - because <span style="text-decoration: none;">without a properly-dredged channel, </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">business goes away</span>//. Public ports are at a critical state in keeping their channels open for business. <span style="text-decoration: none;">We are losing existing business and potential new business to ports outside of the United States ? and </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">once lost, it is rarely regained. Dredging can literally make or break our industry</span>//, and a <span style="text-decoration: none;">lack of dredging is an issue throughout the United States</span>. In fact, it is not an overstatement to say that in <span style="text-decoration: none;">many parts of the United States, we face a dredging crisis.</span> On the Great Lakes, as Chairman James L. Oberstar of this Committee and Chairman David R. Obey of the Appropriations Committee well know, <span style="text-decoration: none;">decades of inadequate funding for dredging have left a backlog of 18 million cubic yards of sediment</span>. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates <span style="text-decoration: none;">removing the backlog will cost more than $230 million on the Great Lakes alone</span>. In some cases, <span style="text-decoration: none;">ports on the Great Lakes have actually shutdown due to inadequate dredging</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">There are similar examples of dredging problems in ports and harbors on all coasts of our Nation. </span>In many cases, <span style="text-decoration: none;">vessels must ?load light? because of dredging shortfalls</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The economic implications of light loading are </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">enormous</span>//. On the Great Lakes, for example, <span style="text-decoration: none;">vessels lose between 50 to 270 tons of cargo for each inch they must reduce their draft </span>and, in some areas, the lost draft is measured in feet, not inches. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Light loading because of inadequate dredging impacts everyone. A ship that is light-loaded reduces its efficiencies in the same way that a commercial airplane that is required to set aside seats with no passengers would </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">quickly lose its efficiencies.</span>//

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Maritime industry is key to naval primacy—it affects every sector of the Navy </span>**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">NLUS 5/7 **(Navy League of the United States, Since 1902, the NLUS has sought to provide a stronger sea voice to Congress and to the American people, “America’s Maritime Industry: the foundation of American seapower.”, 2012, http://www.navyleague.org/files/americas-maritime-industry.pdf)**</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The American Maritime Industry also contributes to our national defense by sustaining the shipbuilding and repair sector of our national defense industrial base upon which our standing as a seapower is based</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">History has proven that without a strong maritime infrastructure — shipyards, suppliers, and seafarers — no country can hope to build and support a Navy of sufficient size and capability to protect its interests on a global basis. Both our commercial and naval fleets rely on U.S. shipyards and their numerous industrial vendors for building and repairs. The U.S. commercial shipbuilding and repair industry also impacts our national economy by adding billions of dollars to U.S. economic output annually. </span>In 2004, there were 89 shipyards in the major shipbuilding and repair base of the United States, defined by the Maritime Administration as including those shipyards capable of building, repairing, or providing topside repairs for ships 122 meters (400 feet) in length and over. This includes six large shipyards that build large ships for the U.S. Navy. Based on U.S. Coast Guard vessel registration data for 2008, in that year U.S. shipyards delivered 13 large deep-draft vessels including naval ships, merchant ships, and drilling rigs; 58 offshore service vessels; 142 tugs and towboats, 51 passenger vessels greater than 50 feet in length; 9 commercial fishing vessels; 240 other self- propelled vessels; 23 mega-yachts; 10 oceangoing barges; and 224 tank barges under 5,000 GT. 11 Since the mid 1990’s, the industry has been experiencing a period of modernization and renewal that is largely market-driven, backed by long-term customer commitments. Over the six-year period from 2000-05, a total of $2.336 billion was invested in the industry, while in 2006, capital investments in the U.S. shipbuilding and repair industry amounted to $270 million.12 The state of the industrial base that services this nation’s Sea Services is of great concern to the U.S. Navy. Even a modest increase in oceangoing commercial shipbuilding would give a substantial boost to our shipyards and marine vendors. Shipyard facilities at the larger shipyards in the United States are capable of constructing merchant ships as well as warships, but often cannot match the output of shipyards in Europe and Asia. On the other hand, U.S. yards construct and equip the best warships, aircraft carriers and submarines in the world. They are unmatched in capability, but must maintain that lead.13 <span style="text-decoration: none;">No nation can support and sustain a capable and sizeable Navy and merchant marine without a strong and sustaining industrial base. </span>Navy League of the United States Maritime Policy 2011-12 18 America’s Maritime Industry The foundation of American seapower. Defense Industrial Base: Seafarers & Shipyard Labor <span style="text-decoration: none;">Maintaining a strong industrial base supporting the seagoing elements of the U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Navy includes having the trained and experienced manpower necessary to crew the vessels comprising the commercial merchant fleet and the skilled shipyard workers needed to build and repair both Navy and commercial ships. Thus seafarers and shipyard labor are key elements in maintaining U.S.</span>
**Shipbuilding is key to naval power**
Batsford et. Al, 11-
(Marc CDR Marc Batsford, Canadian Navy, Spring, “Final Report Shipbuilding Industry,” [[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2011/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2011.pdf]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States is a maritime nation, reliant on the world‘s vast oceans and waterways for transportation, resources, and defense</span>. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Shipbuilding and repair have historically been an essential domestic industry supporting both military and commercial interests</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The defense shipbuilding industry has provided warships and support vessels that are </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">vital to maintaining America‘s maritime supremacy</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> and protecting its national security interests and key partners abroad</span>.1 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The unprecedented economic challenges facing the shipbuilding industry </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">threaten the sustainability</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> of America‘s </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">primacy on the seas</span>//. The current US national debt profile is unsustainable and a clear threat to not only the national fiscal health but also the national defense maritime industry. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Sustainment of a stable and healthy defense shipbuilding industry is </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">critical to this nation maintaining its position as a global superpower</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, for which dominance of the maritime domain is so important</span>. US warships are acknowledged to be the best in the world. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The American fleet is capable of missions centered on influencing events ashore by countering both land- and sea-based military forces of potential regional threats</span>—<span style="text-decoration: none;">including non-state terrorist organizations</span>—using world class precision-guided air delivered weapons, tomahawk-capable ships, sophisticated C4ISR systems and networks, and unmanned vehicles.2 Clearly, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">defense shipbuilding remains a key element of our military instrument of power, making the viability of the shipbuilding and repair industry a vital national security interest.</span>//
**Naval power is key to deterring all major conflict**
Vego, 8-
(Milan, Professor of Operations in the
Joint Military Operations Department at the Naval
War College, Navy, 3rd Quarter, “Executive Summary,” [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces can be employed in support of foreign policy, </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">military</span>// (theater) <span style="text-decoration: none;">strategy, and peace operations</span>. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Navies are an ideal tool for providing support of foreign policy</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Their main advantages are flexibility, mobility, and political symbolism</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces have diverse capabilities that can be quickly tailored to the situation at hand. </span>They are also largely self-sufficient and d not require extensive land support. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces can be employed in support of the country’s diplomatic initiatives in peacetime and time of crisis, or for naval diplomacy</span>— actions aimed to create a favorable general and military image abroad, <span style="text-decoration: none;">establish one’s rights in areas of interest, reassure allies and other friendly countries, influence the behavior of other governments, threaten seaborne interdiction, and, finally, </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">threaten the use of lethal force</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Deployment of naval forces during times of tension or crisis to back up diplomacy and thereby pose an unstated but clear threat is an example of naval diplomacy</span>, which can also help in coalition-building. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Navies are</span> generally much <span style="text-decoration: none;">more effective than armies or air forces in terms of their international acceptability </span>and capacity to make the desired impact. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They can be used symbolically to send a message to a specific government.</span> When a stronger message is required, <span style="text-decoration: none;">naval diplomacy can take the form of employment of carefully tailored forces with a credible offensive capability</span>, signaling that a much more capable force will follow, or it can give encouragement to a friendly country by providing reinforcement. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The threat of the use of limited offensive action or coercion might be designed to deter a possible aggressor</span> or to compel him to comply with a diplomatic demarche or resolution. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces can be used in conflict prevention, coercive diplomacy, and peace operations.</span> Conflict prevention includes diverse military activities conducted either unilaterally or collectively under Chapter VI of the UN Charter and aimed at either preventing escalation of disputes into armed conflict or facilitating resolution of armed violence. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These actions range from diplomatic initiatives to preventive deployment of naval forces</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The main purpose of the forward presence of U.S. naval forces</span> in the western Pacific, Arabian Sea, Persian (Arabian) Gulf, and Mediterranean //<span style="text-decoration: none;">is to prevent the outbreak of large-scale hostilities that might affect the national interests of the United States and its allies or friends</span>//. Naval forces deployed in forward areas should be of sufficient size and combat power to defeat opposing forces quickly and decisively. Under the UN Charter, conflict prevention should be conducted with strict impartiality because all sides in a dispute have to agree to involve other countries as mediators. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces can be deployed in the proximity of a country where hostilities threaten to break out</span>. Aircraft carrier groups and amphibious task forces in particular have a greater chance of success in disputes among nation-states than in ethnic conflict or civil war. To be effective, <span style="text-decoration: none;">such a deployment should be accompanied by a clear willingness on the part of the international community to use overwhelming force if necessary</span>. Otherwise, the preve<span style="text-decoration: none;">ntive deployment of naval forces, regardless of size and capability, will rarely produce the desired effect. Naval forces are one of the most effective and flexible tools in applying </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">coercive diplomacy</span>// (popularly called gunboat diplomacy), which is the use or threat of limited naval force <span style="text-decoration: none;">aimed at securing advantage or averting loss,</span> either in furtherance <span style="text-decoration: none;">of an international dispute</span> or against foreign nationals within the territory or jurisdiction of their own state. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Coercive diplomacy is conducted both in peacetime and during operations short of war</span>. Methods used are “show the flag,” retaliatory raids, rescue operations, or direct attack to achieve a specific military objective. Visits of warships to foreign ports are one of the most common methods of showing the flag. The aim of such visits can range from demonstrating continuing interest in the area to showing resolve in support of a friendly state against threats by a neighboring state. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">The ships then act as ambassadors. </span>//Normally, the main purpose of such visits is to make a favorable impression on the local populace. The degree to which a show of force can be introduced depends on the political message to be communicated. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Sometimes it can be carried out as a warning to leaders or hostile states</span>. At other times, a show of force by ships can act as a sign of reassurance and a token of support. For example, the United States sent a powerful signal of support to Turkey and Greece by sending the battleship USS Missouri (BB–63) for a visit to Istanbul and Piraeus in April 1946. This was followed by a visit of the aircraft carrier USS Franklin D. Roosevelt (CVB–42) to Greece in September of the same year. Both countries were under enormous pressure from the aggressive policies of Moscow. The Soviets strongly supported the Greek communists in their civil war and issued demands to Turkey to grant a naval base in the Dodecanese Islands and joint control of the Turkish Straits. 6 However, in some cases, a show of force has failed to achieve its intended objectives. For example, the employment of three U.S. aircraft carriers in the Sea of Japan after the intelligence ship USS Pueblo (AGER–2) with its 83 crew members was captured off Wonsan in January 1968 apparently did not offer a great advantage to the United States in subsequent negotiations. 7 In March 1996, the Chinese carried out extensive missile firings and exercises off the coast of Taiwan. However, that show of force only hardened the Taiwanese posture and forced the United States to move its naval forces in the Taiwan Strait. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Naval forces are most extensively used in support of peace operations</span>//, which are military operations to support diplomatic efforts to reach a long-term political settlement. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These actions are conducted in conjunction with diplomacy as necessary to negotiate a truce and resolve a conflict</span>. They may be initiated in support of diplomatic activities before, during, or after the conflict. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Peacekeeping and peace enforcement are the principal types of peace operations.</span> Peacekeeping operations are designed to contain, moderate, or terminate hostilities between or within states, using international or impartial military <span style="text-decoration: none;">forces and civilians to complement political conflict-resolution efforts and restore and maintain peace</span>. These actions take place after the sides in a conflict agree to cease hostilities; impartial observers are normally sent to verify the implementation of the ceasefire or to monitor the separation of forces. Peace-enforcement operations involve diverse tasks as authorized by Chapter VII of the UN Charter. The objective is to compel compliance with resolutions or sanctions that have been adopted to maintain or restore peace or order. The tasks of peace enforcement include implementation of sanctions, establishment and supervision of exclusion zones, intervention to restore order, and forcible separation of belligerents. The aim is to establish an environment for a truce or ceasefire. In contrast to peacekeeping operations, peace-enforcement operations do not require the consent of the warring factions involved in a conflict. When used for peace enforcement, naval forces should have at least limited power projection capabilities and be ready to engage in combat


**Industry collapsing now—impact is SCS conflict**
Seth Crospey, Hudson Institute, 4/18/12, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan:Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=4949056c-5547-47ba-9039-a0bee34c8ef0

Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But accelerating cost, an ageing workforce, reduced orders for warships, and an uncertain future risk the nation’s ability to turn out sufficient numbers of vessels at affordable prices and profitably enough to keep shipbuilding companies alive. The <span style="text-decoration: none;">destabilization of the American shipbuilding industrial base is one reason that the cost of warships is outpacing</span> the rate of <span style="text-decoration: none;">inflation</span>. The Navy’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">reduced procurement</span> of ships over the past twenty years has <span style="text-decoration: none;">caused the industry to contract</span>, lay off workers, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and in general to become less reliable</span>. This has driven up the cost of labor and the cost of construction materials. The fewer ships the Navy buys, the less lucrative the industry is for skilled workers. As the cost of labor rises shipbuilders are increasingly pressed to attract and train qualified personnel. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The negative trends reinforce each other</span>. As younger workers are dissuaded from seeking employment or remaining in the industry by the prospects of sporadic employment those who remain—the existing workers—age. The cycle is self-defeating. Paying older workers increases overhead costs and makes it increasingly expensive to invest in the training and education of a younger workforce. The destabilization of the industrial base also causes costs to rise since many of the materials and products that go into building Navy ships are not useful for other purposes. Since the Navy is buying far fewer ships now than it did in the 1980s, many shipyards rely on a single source for necessary materials. With a virtual monopoly on these products, the suppliers have in large part the ability to name their price. The inefficient manner in which the shipyards acquire these materials drives up labor and overhead costs. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The solution lies in stabilizing the American shipbuilding industr</span>y. This means that the Navy must either increase its orders of ships and/or improve its business practices, for example disciplining the changes it requires of shipbuilders once orders have been placed and vessels are under construction. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Buying</span> and stockpiling spare parts for <span style="text-decoration: none;">ships</span> that are already in service and whose need for regular maintenance and repair is well known would also <span style="text-decoration: none;">help provide stability for the American shipbuilding industry. </span>In a study conducted on the subject in 2006, the RAND Corporation concluded that the rising costs of building ships is the result of a combination of unsteady U.S. Government procurement rates and a “monopsony relationship” between the government and the shipbuilders. In a monopsony a single purchaser is faced with a host of sellers. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Because there is so little American shipbuilding</span> outside of what the Navy purchases, U<span style="text-decoration: none;">.S. firms are at the commercial mercy of the</span> 9 percent of the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Navy budget</span> devoted to buying ships. A 2005 Government Accountability Office report attributed <span style="text-decoration: none;">cost increases in shipbuilding to instability in the entire industry,</span> the difficulty in recruiting and training qualified personnel, high rates of skilled personnel turnover <span style="text-decoration: none;">and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base. </span>Finally <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are the consequences if U.S. seapower continues to decrease</span> and proves unable to meet even the reduced goals it has set for itself. <span style="text-decoration: none;">History is a good guide. Nations in the middle like to side with the winner</span>. During our Civil War British political leadership considered recognizing the Confederacy but was eventually dissuaded by Union military success. In World War II Sweden declared neutrality but grew increasingly amenable to Allied requests as Germany’s military position worsened. Romania initially sided with Germany in the same war but changed sides following U.S. attacks on their oil fields and a coup that deposed the proGerman dictator, Antonescu. Bulgarians followed a similar path from siding with the Nazis to switching their allegiance to the Allies in 1944. Saudi Prince Bandar, acknowledging China’s increasing international prominence and power visited Beijing last year and met with President Hu. <span style="text-decoration: none;">American weakness at sea, especially in the Indo-Pacific will change the current military, diplomatic, and commercial character of the region.</span> Whether the U.S. fleet shrinks because of too little funding or because unreformed procurement practices have raised the price of ships or because ships have been called home to save on operational expense, the result is the same. <span style="text-decoration: none;">While we were once present in strength, we would be no</span> more. A nation burdened with massive debt whose ability to shape world events has been limited in tandem with its capacity to invest in research and technology will have more and more trouble finding markets. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China’s potential hegemony would not only force its neighbors’ to reconsider whether the U.S. is a reliable ally. It would also become an increasingly powerful magnet for trade in the region—at the expense of U.S. commerce. Unlike the U.S. whose seapower has protected global sea lanes that other states have used to their benefit China has a different set of values. It views with suspicion a liberal trading system</span> notwithstanding the benefits received from it. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China’s friends include Iran and North Korea. Beijing is a poor candidate to support the international order that has been the keel of U.S. foreign and security policy for a century</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Waning U.S. seapower is an invitation that China will regard as a complement to its rising military and navy</span> in particular. <span style="text-decoration: none;">It</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">foreshadows a coercive resolution of territorial disputes in the South China Sea</span>//, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">the likelihood of an increased regional arms race,</span>// <span style="text-decoration: none;">and the </span>troubling international <span style="text-decoration: none;">perception that the U.S. is</span>—or has—<span style="text-decoration: none;">abandoned its role as a great power.</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">American seapower is the strategic keel of our foreign and security policy.</span>// <span style="text-decoration: none;">Reducing it would be an exercise of history-making shortsightedness</span>. Restoring it would be an act of statesmanship from which Americans and all who cherish political liberty would benefit for the remainder of this century. Thank you.

**Extinction**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Wittner 11</span>
(Lawrence S. Wittner, Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany, Wittner is the author of eight books, the editor or co-editor of another four, and the author of over 250 published articles and book reviews. From 1984 to 1987, he edited Peace & Change, a journal of peace research., 11/28/2011, "Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?", www.huntingtonnews.net/14446)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">While nuclear weapons exist, there remains a danger that they will be used</span>. After all, <span style="text-decoration: none;">for centuries national conflicts have led to wars, with nations employing their deadliest weapons</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The current deterioration of U.S. relations with China might end up providing us with yet another example of this phenomenon</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The gathering tension between the United States and China is clear</span>enough. Disturbed by China’s growing economic and military strength, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. government recently challenged China’s claims in the South China Sea, increased</span> the U.S. <span style="text-decoration: none;">military presence</span> in Australia, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and deepened U.S. military ties with other nations in the Pacific region</span>. According to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the United States was “asserting our own position as a Pacific power.” But <span style="text-decoration: none;">need this lead to nuclear war</span>? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Not necessarily</span>. And <span style="text-decoration: none;">yet</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are signs that it could.</span> After all, <span style="text-decoration: none;">both the United States and China possess large numbers of nuclear weapons. The U.S. government threatened to attack China with nuclear weapons during the Korean War and, later, during the conflict over the future of China’s offshore islands, Quemoy and Matsu</span>. In the midst of the latter confrontation, President Dwight Eisenhower declared publicly, and chillingly, that U.S. nuclear weapons would “be used just exactly as you would use a bullet or anything else.” Of course, China didn’t have nuclear weapons then. Now that it does, perhaps the behavior of national leaders will be more temperate. But the loose nuclear threats of U.S. and Soviet government officials during the Cold War, when both nations had vast nuclear arsenals, should convince us that, even as the military ante is raised, nuclear saber-rattling persists. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Some pundits argue that nuclear weapons prevent wars between nuclear-armed nations</span>; and, admittedly, there haven’t been very many—at least not yet. <span style="text-decoration: none;">But the Kargil War</span> of 1999, <span style="text-decoration: none;">between</span> nuclear-armed <span style="text-decoration: none;">India and</span> nuclear-armed <span style="text-decoration: none;">Pakistan</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">should convince us that such wars can occur</span>. Indeed, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in that case, the conflict almost slipped into a nuclear war.</span> Pakistan’s foreign secretary threatened that, if the war escalated, his country felt free to use “any weapon” in its arsenal. During the conflict, Pakistan did move nuclear weapons toward its border, while India, it is claimed, readied its own nuclear missiles for an attack on Pakistan. At the least, though, <span style="text-decoration: none;">don’t nuclear weapons deter a nuclear attack</span>? Do they? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obviously</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">NATO leaders didn’t feel deterred</span>, for, <span style="text-decoration: none;">throughout the Cold War, NATO’s strategy was to respond to a Soviet conventional military attack on Western Europe by launching a Western nuclear attack on the nuclear-armed Soviet Union</span>. Furthermore, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if U.S. government officials really believed that nuclear deterrence worked, they would not have resorted to championing “Star Wars</span>” and its modern variant, national missile defense. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Why are these vastly expensive</span>—and probably unworkable—<span style="text-decoration: none;">military defense systems needed if other nuclear powers are deterred from attacking by U.S. nuclear might</span>? Of course, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the bottom line for those Americans convinced that nuclear weapons safeguard them from a Chinese nuclear attack might be that the U.S. nuclear arsenal is far greater than its Chinese counterpart.</span> Today, it is estimated that the U.S. government possesses over five thousand nuclear warheads, while the Chinese government has a total inventory of roughly three hundred. Moreover, only about forty of these Chinese nuclear weapons can reach the United States. Surely the United States would “win” any nuclear war with China. But what would that “victory” entail? <span style="text-decoration: none;">A nuclear attack by China would immediately slaughter at least 10 million Americans </span>in a great storm of blast and fire, while leaving many more dying horribly of sickness and radiation poisoning. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Chinese death toll in a nuclear war would be far higher</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Both nations would be reduced to smoldering, radioactive wastelands</span>. Also, <span style="text-decoration: none;">radioactive debris sent aloft by the nuclear explosions would blot out the sun and bring on a “nuclear winter” around the globe—destroying agriculture, creating worldwide famine, and generating chaos and destruction.</span>

**Territorial disputes will cause escalating wars—the US is key**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Webb</span> 9/20/<span style="text-decoration: none;">12</span>
(Jim, Sen. Foreign Relations Committee, Former Secretary of the Navy, also served as the first Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, “Hearing on Maritime Territorial Disputes and Sovereignty Issues in Asia” Opening Remarks, September 20, 2012, Congressional Testimony)

Today, the East Asian and Pacific Affairs Subcommittee will consider the impact of //<span style="text-decoration: none;">recent and ongoing</span>// maritime <span style="text-decoration: none;">territorial disputes and sovereignty in Asia, one of the most critical issues of strategic importance for the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">and for the entire</span> Pacific <span style="text-decoration: none;">region</span>. I have written and spoken about this issue for many years, since long before I entered the Senate. It was the subject of the first substantive hearing I held as chairman of this subcommittee, in July 2009 and it probably will be the subject of the last substantive hearing that I am holding as the chairman of this subcommittee. Unfortunately, since that time the disagreements over sovereignty and the potential for conflict have only increased. In addition to the much-publicized “pivot” into East Asia, it is imperative that the United States policy be based on a clear set of principles that everyone here at home and in the region can understand, and from which our enduring relationships can continue to grow. Throughout my entire professional life I have worked to emphasize the importance of a strong United States presence in East and Pacific Asia. To state the obvious, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">has strong, enduring, vital interests in East Asia, and</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">East Asia would be a far more volatile place if the U</span>//nited //<span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>//tates //<span style="text-decoration: none;">were to recede from the region.</span>// Since World War II, our country has proved to be the essential guarantor of stability in this region, even as the power cycle shifted from Japan to the Soviet Union and most recently to China. Economically and politically, all of East Asia and the Pacific has benefited from the stability that has been made possible by our involvement in this region. I reiterate this point in order to emphasize that neither this hearing nor any other comments and writings that have been made over the years by me are intended to diminish or discourage the evolution of our larger relations with China. The great value that the United States has added to the complex historical mix of East Asia transcends any one country. The concerns that are raised today would have been raised just as quickly if they were directed at Japan during the 1930s, or the Soviet Union when I was a Department of Defense executive in the 1980s. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">does not seek hegemony in this region, nor does it seek containment.</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">Its vital interest is stability</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">, which allows countries of all different populations and sizes the opportunity to resolve their differences without fear of intimidation or the tragic consequences of war</span>. And //<span style="text-decoration: none;">history teaches us that when stability is lost in East Asia, violence replaces it. </span>//The //<span style="text-decoration: none;">strong presence</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> of the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">in the Pacific</span> Asia <span style="text-decoration: none;">region</span> since World War II <span style="text-decoration: none;">has been invaluable in the</span> economic <span style="text-decoration: none;">development</span> and growth <span style="text-decoration: none;">of</span> more mature political systems throughout <span style="text-decoration: none;">the region</span>. This was true even in our frequently misunderstood effort in Vietnam. As Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore commented in his memoir From Third World to First, “Although American intervention failed in Vietnam, it bought time for the rest of Southeast Asia….America’s action enabled non-communist Southeast Asia to put their own houses in order….Had there been no U.S. intervention, the will of these countries to resist would have melted, and Southeast Asia would have most likely gone communist. The prosperous emerging market economies of ASEAN were nurtured during the Vietnam War years.” During the Cold War, American policy encouraged a stronger relationship with China partly as a way to counter Soviet influence in East Asia. But massive American investment in China, coupled with the abrupt fall of the Soviet Union, helped enable a rapid and continuing power shift in favor of China, at the same time that American concerns in Pacific Asia were placed on the back burner due to the manner in which our attention was distracted by the volatility of events in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Muslim world. In April 2001, following the collision of a Chinese fighter with a U.S. reconnaissance aircraft in international airspace, I warned of this development in an article in The Wall Street Journal, noting that “China engaged in a massive modernization program, fueled largely by purchases of Russian weaponry and bolstered by the acquisition of American technology,” which was having an impact on sovereignty claims in the East China Sea and the South China Sea. I warned in that article that China “has laid physical claim to the disputed Paracel and Spratly Island groups, thus potentially straddling one of the most vital sea lanes in the world… has made repeated naval excursions into Japanese territorial waters, a cause for long-term concern as China still claims Japan’s Senkaku Islands … and has never accepted the legitimacy of Okinawa’s 1972 reversion to Japan.” In 2006, in the final debate of my campaign for the United States Senate, I was allowed to ask my opponent one question. I asked him what he thought we should do about the sovereignty disputes in the Senkaku Islands. For a region in relative peace compared to the rest of the world, <span style="text-decoration: none;">East Asia has a significant number of open territorial disputes, mostly with maritime borders. China and Japan both claim the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia, and Taiwan all claim sovereignty over all or part of the Spratly Islands</span>, also in the South China Sea. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan and Korea claim sovereignty over the Liancourt Islands</span>, also known as Takeshima by Japan and Dokdo by Korea. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan and Russia claim the Kuril Islands</span>. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">These are open, active disputes</span>//. They involve not only claims to the land features but also claims to surrounding waters. <span style="text-decoration: none;">And as all</span> of <span style="text-decoration: none;">these Asian nations have grown more prosperous, their sovereignty claims have become more fierce. It is the policy</span> and the desire <span style="text-decoration: none;">of the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">to pursue</span> harmonious relations with each of these countries. We also recognize that these countries have long and complicated histories with each other which impact these claims. We take no sides in the resolution of such historical disputes. But we should not refrain from <span style="text-decoration: none;">using our influence to discourage the use of military force or the unilateral expansion of claims of sovereignty</span>. And it should be within the creative energy of our leadership to seek proper venues for the resolution of these disputes, <span style="text-decoration: none;">particularly in the</span> area of the <span style="text-decoration: none;">South China Sea</span>. What we have been witnessing over the past several years is not simply a series of tactical disputes. They are an accumulation of tactical incidents designed to pursue a larger strategic agenda. Virtually every country in the region understands that. //<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is the duty of the U</span>//nited //<span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>//tates //<span style="text-decoration: none;">to respond, carefully and fully, to it.</span>// //<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the past week</span>//, our most important ally in Asia—<span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan</span>—<span style="text-decoration: none;">has come to the brink of open conflict with </span>our largest creditor—<span style="text-decoration: none;">China—over claims to the Senkaku Islands. This latest incident represents years of growing tension</span>. In 2008, Japan and China agreed to develop oil and gas resources in waters near the Senkaku Islands, in an effort to focus on the benefits of economic cooperation. This cooperation was cut short in 2010 when a Chinese fishing captain rammed a Japanese coast guard vessel near the islands. Last week, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan’s government announced that it would purchase land on the Senkaku Islands</span> from its private Japanese owner, in an attempt prevent the governor of Tokyo from purchasing this land and perhaps using it to stoke further controversy. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A move that the Japanese government expected to relieve tensions was met with widespread misunderstanding, including a blast by China. Last Friday, China sent six maritime surveillance ships into waters around the islands—the </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">largest-ever intrusion by China into this area</span>//. Anti-Japanese protests in China have reached a new height. These protests, abetted by the Chinese government, have damaged Japanese-owned businesses and caused considerable harm. On Tuesday, following a meeting with Secretary of Defense Panetta in Beijing, <span style="text-decoration: none;">China’s defense minister stated that China reserves the right to act further against Japan in this dispute—which can only be read as a threat of the use of force. </span>This threat has direct consequences for the United States. In 2004, the Bush administration stated clearly that the Japanese-U.S. Security Treaty obligations extended to the Senkaku Islands, which according to accepted principles of international law, are under the administrative control of Japan. Secretary Clinton reiterated this position in 2010 following the incident with the Chinese fishing boat. Given the recent incursion by China into waters around the Senkaku Islands, it is vital that we continue to state clearly our obligations under this security treaty. For several years, <span style="text-decoration: none;">China has</span> also <span style="text-decoration: none;">demonstrated an </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">increased willingness to use force</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> in the South China Sea</span>. Its claims in this area are <span style="text-decoration: none;">based upon a roughly defined “9-dashed line”,</span> the so-called “cow’s tongue,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">encircling the South China Sea</span>. In 2009, Chinese vessels harassed a U.S. maritime surveillance ship, the USNS Impeccable, and then a Chinese submarine collided with the sonar cable of the guided-missile destroyer USS John S. McCain while it was operating in the South China Sea. Last year on three separate occasions in March, May and June, <span style="text-decoration: none;">China interfered with the maritime surveillance activities</span> of Vietnamese and Filipino <span style="text-decoration: none;">ships by cutting their cables</span>. Following those incidents, I introduced a Senate resolution deploring the use of force by China and reaffirming U.S. support for the peaceful resolution of maritime territorial disputes. This resolution passed the Senate unanimously. This year in April, tensions in the Scarborough Shoal—an area less than 200 miles from the Philippines coast—escalated as a Filipino coast guard vessels investigated illegal fishing by China. In response, Chinese maritime enforcement ships, backed by PLA naval vessels, roped off the mouth of the lagoon denying access to the territory. China also retaliated through trade measures by blocking Filipino banana exports. In June, Filipino ships withdrew from the standoff due to weather concerns, but Chinese ships remained and are there today. In July, the Chinese government began implementing a decision to assert administrative control over this entire region. It established a prefectural-level government called Sansha on Woody Island located in the Paracel Islands chain, and appointed 45 legislators, a Standing Committee, a mayor and a vice mayor. Woody Island, also called Yongxing, has no indigenous population, no natural water supply. The jurisdiction of this new prefecture extends to more than 200 islets and over 2 million square kilometers of water—in other words, virtually the entire South China Sea. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This political shift has been matched by economic and military expansion</span>. In late June, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) opened bidding on oil blocks that fall within Vietnam’s exclusive economic zone and establishing overlap with oil blocks that Vietnam itself is developing—some in partnership with United States firms. Within days of the Sansha prefecture, China’s Central Military Commission announced that it would deploy a garrison of soldiers to guard the area, and conduct regular combat-readiness patrols in the South China Sea. Other countries in the South China Sea have been actively working to reinforce their claims in the face of such developments. In June, Vietnam passed a new Maritime Law that restates Vietnam’s claim to the Paracel Islands and Spratly Islands. The Philippines has been working through the United Nations Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf to delimit its expanded continental shelf and clearly define its maritime boundaries. All countries are seeking to benefit from the resources in the region, claiming mineral development rights or fishing rights. However, China’s actions this past year go a step farther in attempting to expand administrative and physical control over areas in the South China Sea previously out of its internationally recognized jurisdiction. These incidents have coincidentally been occurring near the anniversary of Japan’s September 18, 1931, invasion of Manchuria. Historian Barbara Tuchman noted that the failure of the international community, and particularly the League of Nations to respond to the Mukden incident at that time “brewed the acid of appeasement that…opened the decade of descent to war” in Asia and beyond. The precedent for Munich was set in Manchuria and China lived through the consequences of the international community’s failure to address the unilateral actions taken against its territory. One hopes the present government of China will appreciate the usefulness of international involvement in finding solutions to the increasingly more hostile sovereignty issues in Northeast Asia and in the South China Sea. All of East Asia is watching the United States’ response to these recent Chinese actions in the South China Sea and East China Sea, particularly the countries of ASEAN, with whom we have shared expanding relations, and Japan and the Philippines, two countries with whom we share the solemn commitment of being treaty allies.

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Goes nuclear</span>
Chakraborty 10
(United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,” pg online @ [[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739]])
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14.6667px;">The first ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus Eight (China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the USA) was held on the 12th of October. When this frame work of ADMM Plus Eight came into news for the first time it was seen as a development which could be the initiating step to a much needed security architecture in the Asia Pacific. Asia Pacific is fast emerging as the economic center of the world, consequently securing of vulnerable economic assets has becomes mandatory. The source of threat to economic assets is basically unconventional in nature like natural disasters, terrorism and maritime piracy. This coupled with the conventional security threats and flashpoints based on territorial disputes and political differences are very much a part of the region posing a major security challenge. As mentioned ADMM Plus Eight can be seen as the first initiative on such a large scale where the security concerns of the region can be discussed and areas of cooperation can be explored to keep the threats at bay. The defence ministers of the ten ASEAN nations and the eight extra regional countries (Plus Eight) during the meeting have committed to cooperation and dialogue to counter insecurity in the region. One of the major reasons for initiation of such a framework has been the new face of threat which is non-conventional and transnational which makes it very difficult for an actor to deal with it in isolation. Threats related to violent extremism, maritime security, vulnerability of SLOCs, transnational crimes have a direct and indirect bearing on the path of economic growth. Apart from this the existence of territorial disputes especially on the maritime front plus the issues related to political differences, rise of China and dispute on the Korean Peninsula has aggravated the security dilemma in the region giving rise to areas of potential conflict. This can be seen as a more of a conventional threat to the region. The question here is that how far this ADMM Plus Eight can go to address the conventional security threats or is it an initiative which would be confined to meetings and passing resolution and playing second fiddle to the ASEAN summit. It is very important to realize that when one is talking about effective security architecture for the Asia Pacific one has to talk in terms of addressing the conventional issues like the territorial and political disputes. **These issues serve as bigger flashpoint which can snowball into a major conflict which has the possibility of turning into a nuclear conflict**..</span>

**Naval power is key to deterring a naval arms race and stopping a Chinese build-up**
McGrath, 10-
(Bryan, Director of Consulting, Studies and Analysisat Delex Systems, Inc., “Debate: Do We Need 11 Carrier Groups: Yes,” [[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/debate-do-we-need-11-carrier-groups-yes]])

I will take the same approach I took to a recent analysis of CJCS Mullen’s speech at Kansas State, in which I highlighted portions of the speech and responded to them. For the purposes of this speech, I am considering the Marine Corps a “naval” force, not a “second land army” as some have come to see it, and as Mr. Gates discusses in his speech. Let’s start with this: “This is even more important considering that, with America’s ground forces dedicated to the campaigns in the Middle East and Central Asia, the weight of <span style="text-decoration: none;">America’s deterrent and strategic military strength has shifted to our</span> air and <span style="text-decoration: none;">naval forces</span>.” Response: When exactly does Mr. Gates believe this “shift” occurred? With the start of the GWOT? I think not. America’s land forces have not acted as a serious deterrent force since the fall of the Soviet Union, and those forces large-scale return to continental garrisons in the 90’s removed any notion of our land power as a useful deterrent. His assertion here leads one to believe that air and naval forces are just sort of marking time until the real deterrent strength returns from its overseas adventures. This is nonsense. America’s land armies are should not be considered realistic deterrents to anyone or anything. They should be considered a force of choice when deterrence fails. Given the distaste among other countries for hosting an American army on their shores—<span style="text-decoration: none;">a distaste that has only grown as our engagements in Asia</span> enter their ninth year<span style="text-decoration: none;">—our only realistic deterrence forces WILL be our </span>air and<span style="text-decoration: none;"> naval forces</span>. Any organization, training and equipping of our Army for this role is inappropriate. Next there’s this: After recounting a discussion of several great naval leaders of the 20th Century that he had with some Naval Academy midshipmen, Gates goes on to tell us that “The reason I wanted to talk to the midshipmen about these leaders – and why I am citing them today – is not that they were always right. Nor that they should be emulated in every way – to put it mildly. What is compelling about each of these leaders is that they had the vision and the insight to see that the world and technology were changing, they understood the implications of these shifts, and then pressed ahead in the face of often fierce institutional resistance.” Response: What would be the source of institutional resistance most likely to face a budding naval leader today? I assert that it would be the crushing impact of Jointness which seeks to impose least common denominator solutions and which constantly seeks not to show favor for the forces or capabilities of one service above another. This “groupthink” is guaranteed to face an officer rising through today’s military, at least as likely as aircraftcarrierism, and boomerism. Next there’s this—and it is a longish clip from the speech: “<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is important to remember that, as much as the U.S. battle fleet has shrunk since the end of the Cold War, the rest of the world’s navies have shrunk even more</span>. So, in relative terms, the U.S. Navy is as strong as it has ever been. In assessing risks and requirements even in light of an expanding array of global missions and responsibilities – everything from shows of presence to humanitarian relief – some context is useful: • The U.S. operates 11 large carriers, all nuclear powered. In terms of size and striking power, no other country has even one comparable ship. • The U.S. Navy has 10 large-deck amphibious ships that can operate as sea bases for helicopters and vertical-takeoff jets. No other navy has more than three, and all of those navies belong to our allies or friends. Our Navy can carry twice as many aircraft at sea as all the rest of the world combined. • The U.S. has 57 nuclear-powered attack and cruise missile submarines – again, more than the rest of the world combined. • Seventy-nine Aegis-equipped combatants carry roughly 8,000 vertical-launch missile cells. In terms of total missile firepower, the U.S. arguably outmatches the next 20 largest navies. • All told, the displacement of the U.S. battle fleet – a proxy for overall fleet capabilities – exceeds, by one recent estimate, at least the next 13 navies combined, of which 11 are our allies or partners. • And, at 202,000 strong, the Marine Corps is the largest military force of its kind in the world and exceeds the size of most world armies.” Response: This is a reprise of an argument Gates has made publicly several times. It is a line of reasoning that simply astounds me. Like the annual media story trumpeting a “Drop In Crime Even As Prison Population Surges”, the cause and effect nature of Gates statistics seem simply to evade him. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The plain truth of the matter is that we have a world full of free riders, content to spend meager portions of their defense budgets on navies BECAUSE we have such a dominant one</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">That Navy—our Navy—performs a </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">critical function in the global system</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">,</span> one performed at different times by the //<span style="text-decoration: none;">leading maritime nation of the world</span>//. The English, the Portuguese and the Dutch all provided a “global good” by <span style="text-decoration: none;">being as powerful as they were and ensuring that others could safely and reliably conduct commerce across wide expanse</span>s. <span style="text-decoration: none;">What is most dangerous of all about Gates riff here is where it could lead—and </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">that is to a naval arms race.</span>// <span style="text-decoration: none;">Our spending on a dominant Navy </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">discourages virtually every nation</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> on earth </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">from building bigger more powerful navies</span>// (more on that in a bit). <span style="text-decoration: none;">Should we begin to show signs of walking away from that dominance—other nations will see themselves </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">has having no other option than to build more ships</span>//. While we may short-sightedly think that is just fine, in the long run, //<span style="text-decoration: none;">such a naval arms race would be destabilizing.</span>// Next: “Potential adversaries are well-aware of our overwhelming conventional advantage – which is why, despite significant naval modernization programs underway in some countries, no one intends to bankrupt themselves by challenging the us to a shipbuilding competition akin to the Dreadnought race before World War I.” Response: Again, this is simply sloppy thinking. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Were we to be seen as diminishing our role, the shipbuilding competition wouldn’t BE against US—it would pit China vs. Japan vs. South Korea vs. Russia vs. France vs. England…etc</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. Our dominant Navy is what keeps a lid on all this</span>//. That said, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the lid is beginning to over-pressurize, and the </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">source of that pressure is China</span>//—who Gates blithely and obliquely refers to as a countries //<span style="text-decoration: none;">with a “…significant naval modernization program underway</span>//.” Gates would have us believe that the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Chinese are</span> merely <span style="text-decoration: none;">modernizing their fleet,</span> and not operating it differently. He points to their anti-access challenges and trumpets Air Sea Battle—but the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Chinese threat is more than just anti-access technologies</span>. Numbers count, and they are on a building blitz. Here’s a peek from Ron O’Rourke at what the Chinese are doing in building submarines: “Between 1995 and 2007<span style="text-decoration: none;">, China placed into service a total of 38 submarines of all kinds, or an average of about 2.9 submarines per year</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This</span> average commissioning <span style="text-decoration: none;">rate,</span> if sustained indefinitely, <span style="text-decoration: none;">would eventually result in a steady-state submarine force </span>of 58 to 88 boats of all kinds, assuming an average submarine life of 20 to 30 years”. Just modernizing? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Chinese surface shipbuilding programs are even more aggressive</span>. Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">given China’s growing and dynamic economy, it isn’t apparent that </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">they WOULD bankrupt themselves</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> in challenging us</span>, at least as far as the terms of such a challenge are conducted today. Now to this: “In particular, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Navy will need numbers, speed</span>, and the ability to operate in shallow water, especially as the nature of war in the 21st century pushes us toward smaller, <span style="text-decoration: none;">more diffuse weapons and units that increasingly rely on a series of networks to wage war</span>. As we learned last year, you don’t necessarily need a billion-dollar guided missile destroyer to chase down and deal with a bunch of teenage pirates wielding AK-47s and RPGs.”
**A naval arms race in Asia guarantees catastrophic miscalculations and escalation**
Strait Times, 10-
Salim Osman, The Strait Times (March 30, 2010, “[SALIM OSMAN] Naval build-up in Northeast Asia worrisome,” [[http://www.koreaherald.com/opinion/Detail.jsp?newsMLId=20091120000017]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A naval arms race that could have catastrophic consequences is developing in Asia-Pacific waters,</span> a military expert warned at a conference here yesterday. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The naval build-up in Northeast Asia has exceeded basic modernization with the addition of new capabilities such as submarines, destroyers, large amphibious ships and long range missiles,</span> experts said. Professor Desmond Ball of the Australian National University warned that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the build-up could lead to a calamity if it becomes a </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">full-fledged arms race</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. "There`s no arms control regime in Asia that might constrain these acquisitions</span>," he said. He and other experts spoke at a conference on New Challenges to Asia Pacific Security organized by the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific. Ball said that, <span style="text-decoration: none;">since 2000, nearly all countries in the region badly hit by the 1997 financial crisis had increased their defense spending again</span>. In Korea, for instance, it rose 6.2 percent in 2001 and then to 9.9 percent by 2007. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">This has resulted, in rough terms, in doubling its defense capability since around 2000 beyond the level considered adequate for modernization in the 1990s,"</span> he said. He believes that China now spends more on defense than any country in the world except the United States. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China has bought large numbers of frigates and destroyers from Russia and plans to acquire aircraft carriers as well.</span> Analyst Sam Bateman of the University of Wollongong in Australia said: "<span style="text-decoration: none;">China is usually seen as the trigger for a naval arms race, potentially shifting the military balance in Asia</span>, although China strongly denies the claims." <span style="text-decoration: none;">Its naval force expansion may explain the acquisition of new missile destroyers by Korea and Japan,</span> he said in an article distributed at the conference "While most navies, including <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Chinese navy, stress that their capabilities are being developed for defensive purposes, it is often difficult to differentiate offensive from defensive capabilities</span>," he said. Chinese analyst Zhang Junshe of <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Naval Research Institute said that his country was merely making modest improvements to its maritime defense capability and that its navy "was still lagging behind other countries."</span> "We don`t think the modernization of the navy by countries in the region constitutes an arms race," he added. Analyst Kwa Chong Guan of Nanyang Technological University <span style="text-decoration: none;">suggested in response to the arms race there "should be more trust, more confidence building and more transparency</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">." The head of external programs at NTU`s Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, he warned: "The consequence of the navy`s build-up is the increasing probability of accidents and incidents at sea."</span>//



=Round 3= 
v. Greenhill GR

plan the united states federal government should substantially increase its capital expenditure in port and waterway infrastructure in the united states

Lack of waterway investment hampers efficiency and risk of lock failure devastates the coal industry and exports
Buchsbaum, 12 – (Lee, Editor and Photogrpaher, “ LOCKED Out: Aging Locks and Dams Jeopardize Inland Waterways,” [[http://www.uppermon.org/news/Other/CA-Locked_Out-Feb2012.html]])

Unique among the network of rivers that make up the U.S. inland waterways, the Ohio River would be considered a major coal river. Hundreds of millions of tons of coal travel through the Ohio River’s many locks and dams annually going from mine to power plant, and increasingly from mine to export facility. As domestic utilities reduce the collective coal burn, now more than 10% of the combined steam and thermal coal produced in the U.S. is heading overseas. With coal traffic patterns changing as a result of this market shift, larger amounts of river-borne coal are seeking new outlets, especially as existing rail-served coal ports become clogged with other traffic. Complicating transit is the fact that many locks and dams on the Upper Mississippi and particularly the Ohio River are ancient, some over a century old, and quite a few are way past their design life. As each day passes, the threat of a significant or catastrophic lock or dam failure becomes more imminent. While America has so far dodged that bullet, the right bolt breaking lose at the wrong time in the wrong place could wreak havoc on coal markets. The Federal Government continues to invest funds in various river improvement projects. Tremendous amounts of money have been tied up for years in one of the biggest boondoggles in modern times: the Olmstead Lock and Dam on the lower Ohio. Initially budgeted at $775 million, projected costs have today climbed to more than $2.1 billion and there’s no end in sight. Moreover, according to the way in which money has been allocated and prioritized, under existing law, dozens of other projects are being held up while Olmstead is “finished.” Meanwhile, the inland waterways become more fragile. According to the Waterways Council, a Washington-based industry group, moving coal and other freight via barge through the nation’s river system is the most energy efficient mode of transportation. On average, barges move a ton of cargo 576 miles per 1 gallon of fuel. A rail car, by contrast, will move the same ton of cargo 413 miles per gallon. Trucks are the worst, averaging only 155 miles travel per that 1 gallon of fuel. One of the largest river shippers, American Electric Power (AEP) is able to do better: squeezing an average of over 642 miles traveled per gallon of fuel used. But in our increasingly carbon constrained and supposedly “greening” economy, America’s inland waterways are actually becoming less efficient and reliable. As Congress debates how much to fund the waterways through this winter, shippers wonder how the inevitable spring floods will affect them and their customers later this year.

First --- coal powers the Chinese economy --- that puts a structural cap on economic growth
WCA, 11 – (World Coal Association, May 2011, “COAL'S VITAL ROLE IN CHINA,” [[http://www.worldcoal.org/resources/ecoal-archive/ecoal-current-issue/coals-vital-role-in-china/]])

The IEA declared that in 2010 China had passed the USA as the world's largest energy consumer*. Most estimates also project China to overtake the USA as the world's largest economy within the next ten years. As the IEA's 2010 World Energy Outlook report stated, it is hard to over-estimate the role of China in global energy markets. Coal has been, and will according to projections, continue to be, the central character in this story. In fact, coal has played a major role in China throughout much of its history. China is reputed to have been the world's biggest coal producer for most of the past 2000 years. For the future, developments in China's energy system will have major implications for global supply and demand trends for coal, as well as oil and natural gas. The policy approach taken in China will also play a key role in global action on climate change. With the World Coal Association (WCA) holding its Annual General Meeting in Beijing in June this year and with WCA's recent membership growth, with both Shenhua Group - China's largest coal producer - and the China National Coal Association joining the WCA, we take a look at the current status of coal in China and consider what the future might hold. Demand Outpacing Supply China has the world's third largest coal reserves at 114 billion tonnes, which in any economic environment would likely make it one of the world's major coal producers. However, in an environment of rapid economic growth, China's coal production has grown markedly in recent years - between 2000 and 2010 Chinese coal production is estimated to have tripled. Importantly, this growth has occurred in an environment where the government has sought to improve safety in coal mining by shutting down many smaller, unsafe and often illegal mines. In fact, safety in coal production has been a significant focus of the Chinese government in recent years. According to the State Administration of Work Safety, deaths per million tonnes of coal produced have decreased by more than 85% between 2000 and 2009. The massive increase in domestic production, however, has not been sufficient to meet the demand created by rapid economic growth. In 2008 China become a net importer of coal and by 2010 net imports were estimated to be around 170 million tonnes, which has been a fundamental turnaround from net exports of around 90 million tonnes in 2001. Australia, Indonesia and Vietnam have been major beneficiaries of the change in the market, becoming significant suppliers to China.

It boosts and powers major sectors
Holmes, 11 –(Frank, CEO and Chief Invest­ment Offi­cer, U.S. Global Investors “Coal Use in China Shines Light on Growth,” [[http://advisoranalyst.com/glablog/tag/coal-prices/]])

//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Coal pow­ers the Chi­nese econ­omy. </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">The coun­try is the world’s largest con­sumer, gob­bling up nearly half of the world’s coal con­sump­tion in 2009</span>. Coal accounted for 71 per­cent of China’s energy in 2008—more than three times the United States’ share. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Elec­tric­ity Coun­cil esti­mates that the country’s coal demand will reach 1.92 bil­lion tons in 2011, up nearly 10 per­cent from 2010. China hasn’t always been such a glut­ton for coal. In fact, coal con­sump­tion actu­ally declined from 1996 to 2</span>000. How­ever, con­sump­tion has shot up 180 per­cent since then and China accounted for 80 per­cent of demand growth between 1990 and 2010, accord­ing to BP. This is because demand for elec­tric­ity exploded over that time. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China’s rapid urban­iza­tion and ris­ing mid­dle class has led to an expo­nen­tial num­ber of new refrig­er­a­tors, air con­di­tion­ers and other appli­ances in homes.</span>

Second --- steel --- coal exports are key to the Chinese steel industry --- that’s key to the economy
WCA, 11 – (World Coal Association, May 2011, “COAL'S VITAL ROLE IN CHINA,” [[http://www.worldcoal.org/resources/ecoal-archive/ecoal-current-issue/coals-vital-role-in-china/]])

Several years ago China became the world's largest steel producing nation and now produces more than half of the world's steel. Even at this level the steel industry in China continues to expand at a significant rate. Steel is also playing a key role in supporting China's economic development and industrial growth. In this context, increasing demand for coking coal is expected to be a long-term trend for China. While China has significant reserves of coal, only a relatively small proportion of this is coking coal (around 28%) and only around 10% of China's coal reserves are estimated to be high quality hard coking coal. These figures mean that Chinese imports of coking coal, which were very small only a few years ago, are now growing significantly. Estimates are that for 2011 China will import around 50 million tonnes of coking coal, up from 30 million in 2008.

Chinese economic collapse causes Asian instability
Plate, 3 – Tom, East Asia Expert, Adjunct. Prof. Communications @ UCLA, 6/28/
(Neo-cons a bigger risk to Bush than China, Strait Times, l/n)
But <span style="text-decoration: none;">imagine a China disintegrating</span>- on its own, without neo-conservative or Central Intelligence Agency prompting, much less outright military invasion <span style="text-decoration: none;">because the economy</span> (against all predictions) <span style="text-decoration: none;">suddenly collapses. That would knock Asia into chaos. A massive flood of refugees would head for Indonesia</span> and other places with poor border controls, which don’t’ want them and cant handle them; some in <span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan might</span> lick their lips at the prospect of World War II revisited and look to <span style="text-decoration: none;">annex a slice of China. That would send Singapore and Malaysia</span>- once occupied by Japan- <span style="text-decoration: none;">into nervous breakdowns.</span> Meanwhile, <span style="text-decoration: none;">India might make a grab for Tibet, and Pakistan for Kashmir. Then you can say hello to World War III,</span> Asia style. <span style="text-decoration: none;">That’s why wise policy encourages Chinese stability</span>, security <span style="text-decoration: none;">and economic growth</span> – the very direction the White House now seems to prefer.

Asian wars escalate
Ogura and Oh, 97 – Toshimaru <span style="color: #000000;">Ogura and</span> Ingyu <span style="color: #000000;">Oh</span>, Teachers – Economics, Monthly Review, April <span style="color: #000000;">1997</span>.

<span style="color: #000000;">North Korea, South Korea, and Japan have achieved quasi- or virtual nuclear armament. Although these countries do not produce or possess actual bombs, they possess sufficient technological know-how to possess one or several nuclear arsenals. Thus, virtual armament creates a new nightmare in this region - nuclear annihilation. Given the concentration of economic affluence and military power in this region and its growing importance to the world system, any hot conflict among these countries would threaten to escalate into a global conflagration.</span>

It also cause ccp lashout
Shirk, ‘7. director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation and Ho Miu Lam professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs (Susan, Fragile China, pg 3).

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">As China’s leaders well know, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">the greatest political risk lying ahead of them is the possibility of an economic crash</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> that throws millions of workers out of their jobs or sends millions of depositors to withdraw their savings from the shaky banking system. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">A massive</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> environmental or public health </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">disaster could</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">trigger regime collapse</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, especially if people’s lives are endangered by a media cover-up imposed by Party authorities. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Nationwide rebellion becomes a real possibility when large numbers of people are upset about the same issue at the same time</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Another dangerous scenario is a domestic or international crisis in which </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">//<span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">the CCP leaders feel compelled to lash out</span>// </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">against Japan, Taiwan, or the United States</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> because from their point of view not lashing out might endanger Party rule.”</span>

China war causes extinctoin
Wittner 11
(Lawrence S. Wittner, Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany, Wittner is the author of eight books, the editor or co-editor of another four, and the author of over 250 published articles and book reviews. From 1984 to 1987, he edited Peace & Change, a journal of peace research., 11/28/2011, "Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?", www.huntingtonnews.net/14446)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">While nuclear weapons exist, there remains a danger that they will be used</span>. After all, <span style="text-decoration: none;">for centuries national conflicts have led to wars, with nations employing their deadliest weapons</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The current deterioration of U.S. relations with China might end up providing us with yet another example of this phenomenon</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The gathering tension between the United States and China is clear</span>enough. Disturbed by China’s growing economic and military strength, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. government recently challenged China’s claims in the South China Sea, increased</span> the U.S. <span style="text-decoration: none;">military presence</span> in Australia, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and deepened U.S. military ties with other nations in the Pacific region</span>. According to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the United States was “asserting our own position as a Pacific power.” But <span style="text-decoration: none;">need this lead to nuclear war</span>? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Not necessarily</span>. And <span style="text-decoration: none;">yet</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are signs that it could.</span> After all, <span style="text-decoration: none;">both the United States and China possess large numbers of nuclear weapons. The U.S. government threatened to attack China with nuclear weapons during the Korean War and, later, during the conflict over the future of China’s offshore islands, Quemoy and Matsu</span>. In the midst of the latter confrontation, President Dwight Eisenhower declared publicly, and chillingly, that U.S. nuclear weapons would “be used just exactly as you would use a bullet or anything else.” Of course, China didn’t have nuclear weapons then. Now that it does, perhaps the behavior of national leaders will be more temperate. But the loose nuclear threats of U.S. and Soviet government officials during the Cold War, when both nations had vast nuclear arsenals, should convince us that, even as the military ante is raised, nuclear saber-rattling persists. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Some pundits argue that nuclear weapons prevent wars between nuclear-armed nations</span>; and, admittedly, there haven’t been very many—at least not yet. <span style="text-decoration: none;">But the Kargil War</span> of 1999, <span style="text-decoration: none;">between</span> nuclear-armed <span style="text-decoration: none;">India and</span> nuclear-armed <span style="text-decoration: none;">Pakistan</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">should convince us that such wars can occur</span>. Indeed, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in that case, the conflict almost slipped into a nuclear war.</span> Pakistan’s foreign secretary threatened that, if the war escalated, his country felt free to use “any weapon” in its arsenal. During the conflict, Pakistan did move nuclear weapons toward its border, while India, it is claimed, readied its own nuclear missiles for an attack on Pakistan. At the least, though, <span style="text-decoration: none;">don’t nuclear weapons deter a nuclear attack</span>? Do they? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obviously</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">NATO leaders didn’t feel deterred</span>, for, <span style="text-decoration: none;">throughout the Cold War, NATO’s strategy was to respond to a Soviet conventional military attack on Western Europe by launching a Western nuclear attack on the nuclear-armed Soviet Union</span>. Furthermore, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if U.S. government officials really believed that nuclear deterrence worked, they would not have resorted to championing “Star Wars</span>” and its modern variant, national missile defense. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Why are these vastly expensive</span>—and probably unworkable—<span style="text-decoration: none;">military defense systems needed if other nuclear powers are deterred from attacking by U.S. nuclear might</span>? Of course, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the bottom line for those Americans convinced that nuclear weapons safeguard them from a Chinese nuclear attack might be that the U.S. nuclear arsenal is far greater than its Chinese counterpart.</span> Today, it is estimated that the U.S. government possesses over five thousand nuclear warheads, while the Chinese government has a total inventory of roughly three hundred. Moreover, only about forty of these Chinese nuclear weapons can reach the United States. Surely the United States would “win” any nuclear war with China. But what would that “victory” entail? <span style="text-decoration: none;">A nuclear attack by China would immediately slaughter at least 10 million Americans </span>in a great storm of blast and fire, while leaving many more dying horribly of sickness and radiation poisoning. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Chinese death toll in a nuclear war would be far higher</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Both nations would be reduced to smoldering, radioactive wastelands</span>. Also, <span style="text-decoration: none;">radioactive debris sent aloft by the nuclear explosions would blot out the sun and bring on a “nuclear winter” around the globe—destroying agriculture, creating worldwide famine, and generating chaos and destruction.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Causes bioweapons</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Renxing, ‘5 (San, The Epoch Times "The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed", 8/5, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it would not be surprising if the CCP resorts to the use of biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons in its attempt to extend its life. The CCP</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, which disregards human life, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">would not hesitate to kill</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> two hundred million Americans, along with </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">seven or eight hundred million Chinese, to achieve its ends</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. These speeches let the public see the CCP for what it really is. With evil filling its every cell the CCP intends to wage a war against humankind in its desperate attempt to cling to life. That is the main theme of the speeches.</span>

Bioweapons cause extinction
Ochs 2 | Past president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, Member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, and M of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a “</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">nuclear</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> winter,” resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">tiny amounts</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> can be stolen or accidentally released and then </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">grow or be grown to horrendous proportions</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope?</span>




=Round 4= 
v Carrolton DS
2NR: Investment Specification

=Round 5= 
v BCC MS

1ac structural violence

Studies and media representations of poverty almost exclusively focus on urban areas. America’s rural poor is largely invisible and continually excluded by their geographic isolation
Licther and Parisi 2008 [Daniel T. (Ferris Family Professor in the Department of Policy Analysis and Management at Cornell University) and Domenico (Professor of sociology at Mississippi State University), “Concentrated Rural Poverty and the Geography of Exclusion,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://carseyinstitute.unh.edu/publications/PB-Lichter-Parisi.pdf]]</span>]

Most middle-class and affluent Americans have¶ little or no real contact with the poor—in neighborhoods,¶ schools, or communities. The poor are¶ literally and figuratively separated from mainstream society,¶ living in economically distressed places that often seem¶ worlds apart from most Americans. In fact, poor neighborhoods¶ are places to avoid; rightly or not, they are perceived¶ as different, dangerous, and dirty. They are “out of sight, out¶ of mind.”¶ Economically distressed communities often lack adequate¶ institutional support services (e.g., health care and¶ educational programs), good jobs that pay a living wage,¶ and a stable middle-class population that provides role¶ models and active networks to jobs and opportunities.¶ Opportunities for upward mobility in poor places are limited,¶ and poverty is often passed along from generation to¶ generation. Poor people are seemingly trapped in place—in¶ poor places.¶ Poverty debates typically center on the urban poor,¶ particularly those in the inner city. Much less research¶ and policy attention have focused on the rural poor. As a¶ result, the rural poor are often left behind and forgotten¶ in economically distressed small towns in Appalachia, the¶ Mississippi Delta region, colonias along the border in Texas¶ and New Mexico, on Indian reservations, and in other¶ pockets of rural poverty throughout the country.¶ This policy brief provides new empirical evidence on¶ concentrated rural poverty. We find that one-half of all¶ rural poor are segregated in high-poverty areas. The rates¶ are even more striking for minorities. Three-fourths of¶ rural blacks and two-thirds of rural Hispanics are segregated¶ from America’s more affluent, largely white populations.¶ Clearly, the rural poor, like those in cities, are often¶ physically and socially isolated from most middle-class¶ Americans. These findings call for targeted public policies¶ that address inequalities based on place and the geography¶ of exclusion in America. Patterns of concentrated poverty highlight the changing¶ geography of opportunity in American society and barriers¶ to upward mobility. Evidence of concentrated rural poverty¶ also suggests the need for place-based policies (rural development¶ strategies, for example) that focus on structural¶ conditions rather than individual deficiencies.¶ Poverty frequently grips America’s minorities, many of¶ whom live and work in isolated rural areas. Rural blacks¶ living in small towns in the South, for example, face longstanding¶ traditions of racial discrimination and economic¶ oppression. More recently, Hispanics have dispersed from¶ gateway cities into new rural destinations in the Midwest¶ and South, often to work for low wages in meatpacking¶ plants, agriculture, or construction. Poverty rates in¶ America’s Indian reservations are exceedingly high. More¶ than one-half of residents in some reservation communities¶ are poor.¶ Social exclusion and isolation in poor communities often¶ reinforce racial and class inequality. Indeed, geographic and¶ social mobility often go hand in hand. To get somewhere in¶ life often means you have to go elsewhere. Unfortunately,¶ rural minorities, elderly people, and the uneducated poor¶ have few residential options that represent a step forward.¶ Those who move often circulate between poor neighborhoods,¶ communities, or regions. The good news of the 1990s is that many rural areas, including¶ isolated populations in Appalachia and the South,¶ experienced unexpectedly large declines in poverty during¶ the decade’s economic boom. Nonmetro poverty rates¶ dipped to record lows (13.4 percent in 2000) before inching¶ up again with the early 2000s recession. Whether recent¶ poverty declines have been broadly shared across rural¶ communities and neighborhoods is much less clear.¶ Figure 1 shows that poverty remains highly concentrated¶ in Appalachia; the “Black Belt” crescent that extends¶ from Arkansas to North Carolina; the Mississippi Delta;¶ the Lower Rio Grande River Valley along the Mexico-U.S.¶ border; and Indian reservations in the desert Southwest and¶ the upper Great Plains states (mostly South Dakota).¶ The map also clearly indicates a broad geographical spread¶ of “pockets of poverty.” Obviously, high-poverty regions¶ like Appalachia, for example, are not uniformly poor, and¶ perhaps more importantly, there are many pockets of poverty¶ even within affluent counties. In fact, more than one-half of¶ the nation’s rural high-poverty block groups were located in¶ counties with poverty rates less than 20 percent in 2000. (For¶ a definition of block groups, see sidebar.) The implication is¶ clear: Rural pockets of poverty are often hidden by apparent¶ prosperity, which gives a misleading impression of the extent¶ of concentrated poverty in America.
Nearly 1/5th of Americans in rural areas are below the poverty line – lack of viable and up-to-date transportation infrastructure is a critical factor in preventing economic isolation
Wright 2011 [Katie, Special Assistant @ Center for American Progress, “Debt Deal Leaves Americans Living in Rural Poverty Behind,” August 10, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/poverty/news/2011/08/10/10189/debt-deal-leaves-americans-living-in-rural-poverty-behind/]]</span>]

The image of rural America in the public psyche conjures up scenes of the new frontier: pastoral scenes, expansive farmland, tight-knit communities, and unlimited potential. Despite these idyllic stereotypes, people in rural America actually face greater material hardships and greater barriers to opportunity than people living in metro areas. Rural Americans work as many hours but earn far less and are more reliant on Social Security and the safety net to meet basic needs. Putting it plainly, compared to residents of metro areas, they have less education, poorer health, and are less likely to have access to decent affordable housing, public transportation, and quality medical care they can afford. In order to unleash rural communities’ full potential, it is imperative to understand the challenges facing families living in diverse rural areas such as Appalachia, the coloñias of South Texas, the Native American reservations of the Midwest, and the stricken Gulf Coast region, and to invest in solutions that will help not only rural residents but all Americans to prosper. The cuts expected in the latest deficit reduction deal will make this task more difficult. In 2009, the year for which the latest data are available, 17 percent of Americans living in rural areas lived in poverty, topping the poverty rate in metro areas by nearly 3 percentage points. In the South, where rural poverty is concentrated among communities of color, more than one in five people in rural areas were living below the poverty line. Seniors and children in rural areas struggle the most. Nearly half of all children in rural areas live in households with incomes of less than twice the poverty level. And more than 40 percent of seniors in rural areas struggle to get by on low incomes compared to 32 percent of seniors in metro areas. Americans living in rural areas have reduced transportation options, which can make accessing jobs and economic opportunity in metro areas more difficult, and limited access to broadband can hinder job searches and online entrepreneurship. Families living in rural poverty also have reduced access to health care resources. Since the rural care model provides primary and urgent care in remote areas and refers patients needing specialized care to regional hospitals, low-income families often struggle with cost and access to specialized care. Lack of affordable or accessible transportation options can also isolate low-income families in rural areas from the health services they need to fight an illness, care for an elderly loved one, or provide children with the preventive care services. Workers in rural areas are also less likely than urban and suburban workers to have access to paid sick days, according to the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire. Paid sick days are an important benefit employers offer to permit employees the time to take care of themselves and their families without the threat of job loss or a docked paycheck. A staggering 76 percent of rural part-time workers lack access to paid sick days, as compared to 60 percent of all part-time workers. Poor quality jobs that come with few other benefits are more likely to come without access to paid sick days. Lawmakers too often leave concerns like these and others facing low-income families out of important policy debates in which such families have much at stake. The recent debt deal, passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama last week, is no exception. The 11th hour deal placed a tight cap on discretionary spending, the part of the budget that funds many basic human services programs, yielding nearly $1 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. What’s more, a congressional Super Committee, whose 12 members will be announced in the coming week, is charged with coming up with $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion more in deficit reduction by Thanksgiving. Everything is on the table from taxes to programs such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid that play a key role in providing economic security for millions of Americans, rural and nonrural alike. If the Super Committee fails to come up with a deal or Congress fails to pass it, automatic cuts will take effect. While entitlement programs that support low-income Americans such as SNAP/food stamps, unemployment insurance, Social Security, and Medicaid are exempted from the automatic cuts, discretionary programs that support education, infrastructure, nutritional supports for new moms and kids, transportation, and job training may be on the chopping block again. Needless to say, such deep cuts to job-creation and safety net programs would be devastating to low-income families and rural families in particular. The high number of children and seniors living on low incomes in these areas would be most impacted. Cutting programs that build a ladder to opportunity for kids such as Head Start, the Women, Infants and Children program, and job training for youth would further limit the prospects of such children who already have few options, and make it harder to get the education and nutrition assistance that’s essential to their development and success. The large number of low-income seniors, people with disabilities, and their families living in rural areas could face years of medical debt should Medicaid fall on the chopping block. Community health centers and community action agencies that work in rural areas may face cuts as well, forcing them to reduce staff, services, or even close—leaving these folks to fend for themselves. The community health center in rural Brownsville, Texas, has been able to serve at least 17,000 low-income residents a year, including families struggling with diabetes and those living in coloñias, where problems with the sewage system have given many in the area intestinal problems. The fate of these programs will hang in the balance for the rest of this year. Appropriators in Congress and the Super Committee must pursue deficit reduction in a way that creates high-quality jobs with benefits like paid sick days, invests in infrastructure in rural areas, and protects low-income Americans across the board, particularly children and seniors. Critical programs such as SNAP/food stamps and Medicaid should be shielded from cuts and restructuring that would inhibit their ability to meet increased need in recessions. Cuts to important safety net programs would entrench the economic isolation facing many segments of the population and increase poverty and hardship across the country, particularly in rural areas. It reduces discretionary spending for essential safety net supports such as food and nutrition for women, infants, and children; rent subsidies; and community health center services. It also decreases spending for opportunity programs that help the poor lift themselves out of poverty—everything from Head Start to Self-Help Housing. If Congress or the Super Committee fail to come together on a deficit reduction plan, across-the-board reductions will do even more damage. It is not wise policy, nor is it fair to struggling families to make deep cuts to programs that make the American Dream accessible to all people in all parts of the country.
Individuals in rural poverty are disproportionately affected by unemployment. They are three times less likely than the rural non-poor to own a vehicle. Lack of federally assisted rural transit systems are the primary cause of diminished mobility
Brown 2008 [Dennis M., Regional Economist @ USDA, “Public Transportation on the Move in Rural America,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nal.usda.gov/ric/ricpubs/publictrans.htm]]</span>]

Another argument for providing Federal or State aid for rural public transportation is that transit¶ can reduce social and economic inequalities by enhancing mobility for residents -- many of whom are poor, disabled, and/or elderly -- who lack access to cars. Furthermore, given the Federal commitment to welfare reform, it can be argued that the Federal Government should help the States and localities provide adequate transportation services to individuals who need assistance in finding jobs.¶ ¶ Compared to metro areas, nonmetro counties have higher levels of poverty, and have larger shares of disabled and elderly residents (U.S. Bureau of the Census, 2000) (fig. 2). In 1999, approximately 7.9 million people in nonmetro areas lived in poverty, representing about 14.6 percent of the rural population, compared to a metro poverty rate of 11.8 percent (26 million individuals). And, 11 million individuals (excluding those under 5 years old) in nonmetro areas were classified as disabled in 2000, accounting for 21.5 percent of rural America, compared to a disability rate of 18.8 percent in metro areas (38.8 million disabled individuals). Nonmetro areas had 7.8 million elderly residents (at least 65 years of age) in 2000, accounting for 13.8 percent of the nonmetro population, compared to an elderly rate of 11 percent for metro counties (25.6 million elderly metro residents). These individuals, in particular, potentially benefit from access to public transportation.¶ ¶ The highest concentrations of the rural poor are primarily in the South, the Southwest, the Upper Plains, and Alaska. The nonmetro disabled are clustered mainly in the South, with heavy concentrations in Appalachia (fig. 3). And, the highest concentrations of elderly residents in nonmetro areas are primarily in the Plains and parts of the Midwest, with significant clusters also located on the West Coast, the Southwest, the South, and the Northeast.¶ ¶ In areas suffering from high unemployment, vulnerable populations have a particular need for public transportation because their options for personal mobility may be severely limited. In the second quarter of 2003, the nonmetro seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 5.9 percent, compared to 6.1 percent for metro counties. The highest rates of nonmetro unemployment are in parts of the South, the Southwest, the Pacific Northwest, the Upper Great Lakes, the Upper Plains, the Northeast, and Alaska.¶ ¶ Census data reveal that the vehicle ownership rate is higher in rural America than in metro areas, with 92.7 percent of rural households having access to a car in 2000, compared to 88.9 percent for metro counties (U.S. Bureau of the Census, 2000). Still, more than 1.6 million rural households do not have access to a car. The proportion of rural households without access to automobiles is highest in the South, the Southwest, and parts of Alaska (fig. 4).¶ ¶ Previous research has found that nearly 40 percent of all rural counties are not served at all by transit services, while another 28 percent have only limited service (defined as having less than 25 trips taken each year per carless household) (Stommes, Brown, and Houston, 2002). And, while the vast majority of rural households owns a car, poor rural households are three times more likely than the non-poor to lack a vehicle (Brown and Stommes, 2004). For carless rural households, few good options for transportation exist, especially in more sparsely populated nonmetro areas, which typically have little transit service. Counties with smaller metropolitan populations and completely rural areas are often less likely to be served by a federally-assisted public transportation program. Hence, public transportation can help to bridge the mobility divide existing for these communities and the individuals that reside there, opening up access to employment, training, and social services.¶ ¶ Tunica County, Mississippi is a case in point. This rural Mississippi Delta county, which has a high concentration of poverty, many disabled individuals, many carless households, and high unemployment, is home to one of the largest casinos in the country. The local casino industry’s development in the mid-1990’s led to sharply increased local land prices and higher infrastructure costs, factors that raised the costs of housing there. Consequently, the casino industry found it difficult to hire sufficient numbers of workers in the local area, even though it is economically challenged. But with nearly 16 percent of the local population lacking access to a vehicle -- more than double the national nonmetro rate of non-car ownership -- the casino industry determined that transit could help to bring in workers from the local area as well as from surrounding counties up to 70 miles away. Additionally, community officials found that transit helped to reduce traffic congestion around casinos.
Women in rural areas are also disproportionately affected
Pruitt 2006 [Lisa, Professor of Law @ UC Davis, “Toward a Feminist Theory of the Rural,” UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper Series, Research Paper No. 89. October/2006]

The long distances that typically separate rural residents from jobs, services,¶ and other people make reliable transportation a necessity.56 It is thus not surprising¶ that, compared to those in urban areas, rural Americans spend a higher percentage¶ of their income on transportation.57 Nevertheless, rural counties have a higher rate of car-lessness than urban counties.58 While rural residents are more reliant upon¶ public transportation than their urban counterparts, they have fewer public¶ transport options.59 With less than a tenth of all federal funding for public¶ transportation going to rural areas,60 only about sixty percent of rural counties are¶ able to offer it.61 Of those using rural public transportation, sixty-two percent are¶ women.62 Yet transportation challenges put these and other rural residents at a¶ disadvantage for getting access to employment, health care, child care, and other¶ services.63
Geographic isolation of rural women contributes to this socioeconomic disadvantage
Pruitt 2006 [Lisa, Professor of Law @ UC Davis, “Toward a Feminist Theory of the Rural,” UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper Series, Research Paper No. 89. October/2006]

Angela Harris argued almost two decades ago that, “to energize legal theory,¶ we need to subvert it with narratives and stories, accounts of the particular, the¶ different, the hitherto silenced.”371 I have sought to do precisely that here: to¶ surface the stories of rural women, one group who have been overlooked,¶ misunderstood, and thus silenced. Rural women have been silenced not only¶ because of the lack of power that stems from socioeconomic disadvantage, but also¶ because of their physical distance from public places, from centers of power, from¶ services, and from opportunities of all sorts.372 The deepest atrocities of their¶ everyday lives have often gone unseen, without legal redress, due in part to that¶ geographic isolation, but also because of our society’s pervasive urban¶ presumption.
The impact is unchecked patriarchal violence
Warren and Cady 1994 [Warren is the Chair of the Philosophy Department at Macalester College and Cady is Professor of Philosophy at Hamline University, Karen and Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, p. 16, JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3810167.pdf]

Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional system is found in the behaviors to which it gives rise, (c), and the unmanageability, (d), which results. For example, in the United States, current estimates are that one out of every three or four women will be raped by someone she knows; globally, rape, sexual harassment, spouse-beating, and sado-masochistic pornography are examples of behaviors practiced, sanctioned, or tolerated within patriarchy. In the realm of environmentally destructive behaviors, strip-mining, factory farming, and pollution of the air, water, and soil are instances of behaviors maintained and sanctioned within patriarchy. They, too, rest on the faulty beliefs that it is okay to "rape the earth," that it is "man's God-given right" to have dominion (that is, domination) over the earth, that nature has only instrumental value, that environmental destruction is the acceptable price we pay for "progress."And the presumption of warism, that war is a natural, righteous, and ordinary way to impose dominion on a people or nation, goes hand in hand with patriarchy and leads to dysfunctional behaviors of nations and ultimately to international unmanageability. Much of the current" unmanageability" of contemporary life in patriarchal societies, (d), is then viewed as a consequence of a patriarchal preoccupation with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically male-gender identified beliefs, values, attitudes, and assumptions. Included among these real-life consequences are precisely those concerns with nuclear proliferation, war, environmental destruction, and violence toward women, which many feminists see as the logical outgrowth of patriarchal thinking. In fact, it is often only through observing these dysfunctional behaviors-the symptoms of dysfunctionality that one can truly see that and how patriarchy serves to maintain and perpetuate them. When patriarchy is understood as a dysfunctional system, this "unmanageability" can be seen for what it is-as a predictable and thus logical consequence of patriarchy.'1 The theme that global environmental crises, war, and violence generally are predictable and logical consequences of sexism and patriarchal culture is pervasive in ecofeminist literature (see Russell 1989, 2). Ecofeminist Charlene Spretnak, for instance, argues that "militarism and warfare are continual features of a patriarchal society because they reflect and instill patriarchal values and fulfill needs of such a system. Acknowledging the context of patriarchal conceptualizations that feed militarism is a first step toward reducing their impact and preserving life on Earth" (Spretnak 1989, 54). Stated in terms of the foregoing model of patriarchy as a dysfunctional social system, the claims by Spretnak and other feminists take on a clearer meaning: Patriarchal conceptual frameworks legitimate impaired thinking (about women, national and regional conflict, the environment) which is manifested in behaviors which, if continued, will make life on earth difficult, if not impossible. It is a stark message, but it is plausible. Its plausibility lies in understanding the conceptual roots of various woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global contexts.
We have created a new fourth world consisting of the invisible consequences of radical inequality, the accelerating widening of the rich-poor gap, and the depth of first world consumption. Global poverty is the largest crime against humanity ever committed and claims more lives every week than the concentration camps, World War II, and recent natural disasters combined
Hayden 2007 [Patrick, Senior Lecturer of International Relations @ University of St. Andrews, “Superfluous Humanity: An Arendtian Perspective on the Political Evil of Global Poverty.” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 35.2 pg. 279-300, March]

The crucial feature of political evil in Arendt’s analysis is that it takes aim at the human status as such, in its relentless drive to deprive individuals qua human beings from having a place in the world. The phenomenon of the banality of evil identified by Arendt refers to a specifically modern condition which makes politically evil deeds possible, namely, the normal, matter-of-fact motives associated with an overriding personal ambition pursued within the context of a bureaucratised social system. Such motivations are not demonic, yet they nevertheless serve as a kind of preparation for and acceptance of the occurrence of cruel deeds actualised within concrete modes of politico-economic organisation. I will develop these claims in the next section. In this section, however, I want to expand upon Arendt’s insights and concentrate further on the matter of what constitutes political evil itself. In particular, I want to argue that there are two general forms which political evil takes in the modern age. First, political evil is manifested in overt forms of direct violence, such as genocide, ethnic cleansing, and mass political murder. Second, political evil is manifested in indirect or structural forms of violence including the pervasive degradation of the human status associated with global poverty and radical inequality. Yet concern with political evil in the post-Second World War period has been dominated by overt forms of direct violence, culminating in the seemingly exclusive focus on (non-state) terrorist violence since the attacks of 11 September 2001.37 Consequently, global poverty has been unjustly neglected as a form of political evil, and the failure to recognise it as such constitutes one of the most pressing problems in global politics today.38 To begin, we must examine the relationship between the two broad forms of political evil identified above. Although Arendt’s main concern was to identify and condemn overt forms of political evil, she nonetheless cleared the way to recognising that political evil can find expression in various types of mass suffering. This is particularly true in the era of dehumanising bureaucratisation, as violence is increasingly facilitated by ‘banal’ causes and motivations. In whichever form they take, politically evil acts involve ‘offenses against human dignity so widespread, persistent, and organized that normal moral assessment seems inappropriate’.39 Thus the common ground of both forms of political evil is the systematic destruction of people’s humanity, by means of rendering them superfluous. It is my contention that the perpetuation of global poverty constitutes a structural process of superfluity and that it is a political evil in the Arendtian sense. The appalling effects of global poverty have become crucially intertwined with contemporary economic globalisation, and should be seen against this background. I am not attempting to demonstrate here that global poverty is the only possible causal effect of globalisation. My point in what follows is to focus attention on the superfluity or dehumanisation of large segments of humanity which is manifested as one component of the globalisation of capitalism. Whatever else might be said about the potential benefits of economic globalisation – for clearly it has generated great wealth for some – it is also politically imperative to diagnose the worst offences of global capitalism as being none other than making numerous human beings superfluous. With this in mind, we must consider that globalisation has been accompanied by growing inequality, both between nations, in terms of the gap between the rich and the poor world, and within nations, as the rich get richer and the poor poorer. At present, around 1.2 billion human beings live on less than $1 a day, and another 1.5 billion people live on less than $2 a day. Further, around 850 million people are chronically malnourished, although 80 per cent of the malnourished in the developing world live in countries with food surpluses, and 1.3 billion people lack access to clean water.40 The global distribution of income reveals an extraordinarily high degree of structural inequality. The richest 20 per cent of the world’s population hold 75 per cent of the world’s income, while the poorest 40 per cent hold just 5 per cent. Nine out of every ten of the citizens of affluent countries are among the world’s richest 20 per cent, and ‘the gap between the average citizen in the richest and in the poorest countries is wide and getting wider’.41 In addition, the UN estimates that income, life expectancy, and literacy declined in 21 countries during the 1990s, this being a particularly dismal decade for sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America.42 Roughly one third of all human deaths, some 50,000 daily, are due to poverty-related causes, and of these more than 10 million annually are children under five; in fact, ‘98% of children who die each year live in poor countries’.43 100 million children live on the streets; half a million women die during pregnancy or in childbirth every year; one million a year die of malaria and two million of tuberculosis; 4 4 and more than 40 million people are infected HIV/AIDS, nearly two-thirds of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa.45 Despite such widespread yet preventable misery, total external debt for the world’s poorest countries in 2003 stood at a shocking $2.43 trillion,46 preventing any chance of addressing many of these issues. In light of this radical inequality, Castells speaks of the emergence within the global economy of a new ‘fourth world’.47 This refers to the emergence of an ‘underclass’ of ‘millions of homeless, incarcerated, prostituted, criminalized, brutalized, stigmatized, sick, and illiterate persons’ across every country, who are excluded from the benefits of globalisation and marginalised in terms of political participation and social belonging.48 A stark example of this underclass of humanity is the swelling numbers of the world’s urban poor, indicative of a shift in the locus of poverty from rural areas to urban centres. In its recent report,49 UN-HABITAT estimates that nearly 17 per cent of humanity – about one billion people – now live in urban slums; 72 per cent of the world’s slum dwellers are in sub-Saharan Africa. Globally, the slum population is expected to grow at a rate of 27 million people per year over the next 15 years. Despite their proximity to services, durable housing, and government institutions, the UN report concludes that the urban poor are almost wholly excluded from access to them and thus suffer from a systemic ‘urban penalty’. The ‘multidimensional nature of poverty experienced by the urban poor’ includes environmental degradation, discrimination, violence, chronic malnutrition, disease, a high, premature mortality rate, and recurrent dispossession. Yet notwithstanding their rapidly growing numbers, the urban poor remain ‘hidden’ and slums ‘largely ignored’.50 Zygmunt Bauman discusses the problem of global poverty in terms that help to illuminate how Arendt’s characterisation of political evil as making human beings superfluous may be applicable here. For Bauman, poverty takes on an intense significance today in a globalising world. We have moved, he argues, from a social order in which people were engaged primarily as workers, and where the non-working population existed as a reserve army of labour, to a society where people are engaged within social orders primarily as consumers.51 Unemployment and insecurity become permanent for hordes of the ‘redundant’. The main figure of the poor today, then, is as ‘flawed consumer’. In Bauman’s view, the poor today are regarded as having no function, and they tend to be blamed for their condition. Their plight is no longer viewed as a collective social problem; rather, it is linked with criminality in that the poor are regarded as a ‘nuisance and worry’. The only role left to the poor is invisibility, to behave as if they do not exist. Much like Arendt, Bauman argues that modernity is characterised by instrumental rationality and a drive towards bureaucracy and technological order, with a resulting emptying out of moral responsibility. The era of neoliberal globalisation, Bauman contends, exposes how the project of modernity – or more accurately, of compulsive modernisation – necessarily produces ‘human waste’.52 Here three historical strands of modernisation converge: order-building, economic progress, and capitalist globalisation. For Bauman the modernisation process is defined by the drive to design, engineer and administer society, most fundamentally in terms of the ‘freedom’ to consume. The corollary of this process is that whatever cannot be assimilated into the model of modernisation (or ‘development’) as consumption must be treated as unfit, undesirable, redundant, useless, and disposable. Immigrants, refugees, and the impoverished are simply superfluous populations who, if they cannot be directly eliminated in the ‘post-totalitarian’ era, at least can be made to disappear from our consciousness. In Bauman’s words, we ‘dispose of leftovers in the most radical and effective way: we make them invisible by not looking and unthinkable by not thinking. They worry us only when the routine elementary defences are broken and the precautions fail.’53 The wasted lives of human refuse are stripped of dignity, driven to the furthest margins of society, and eradicated from public space while hidden in plain sight. Bauman’s argument, couched in language that evokes the parallels drawn by Arendt between totalitarian systems and the basic conditions of modern capitalist society, lends support to the central claim of this article: that global poverty ‘erases’ the global poor, excludes them from recognition as fellow human beings, and denies them standing as equals within a shared public world. Simply put, global poverty makes a vast portion of humanity superfluous. The global poor have become, to borrow Arendt’s phrase for those deprived of their human rights, ‘the scum of the earth’, because of who they are (or where they are born) rather than what they have done.54 As Dana Villa asserts, in today’s world ‘untold millions will have to suffer the crushing fate of being no use to the world economy’.55 Along these lines, Thomas Pogge has proposed that extreme global poverty may constitute ‘the largest crime against humanity ever committed, the death toll of which exceeds, every week, that of the recent tsunami and, every three years, that of World War II, the concentration camps and gulags included’.56

Rural transportation infrastructure is key to ameliorating these conditions
McDonagh 2006 [John, Dept. of Geography @ National University of Ireland, “Transport policy instruments and transport-related social exclusion in rural Republic of Ireland,” Journal of Transport Geography 14 (2006) 355–366]

The restructuring of rural Europe is occurring at a variety of spatial scales (Nijkamp and van Geenhuizen, 1997) and is creating what Hodge (1997) describes as “new geographies”. These new geographies have at their core the development of communications and transport technology networks which have the ability to “redefine patterns of accessibility (and) redefine the possibilities of interaction between people, organisations and places’”(p. 33). Within this redefinition the concept of rural transportation provision, a focus for many conflicting and contentious issues, creates an intriguing space for debate on the future ‘functionality’ of rural areas. At the core of this paper is an attempt to explore certain policy instruments as they relate to engaging transport development as an integral part of social and economic prosperity while contradictorily promoting greater rural exclusion through opposing sets of policies (other aspects leading to social exclusion such as access to education, services etc. are not dealt with in this paper). Interrogating key rural development policies, transport policy instruments, Census 2002 Data and case study evidence, this paper will argue for an integrated rural development and transport policy for rural areas with an increased role for properly resourced community transport initiatives. 2. Social exclusion and issues of rural transport in Ireland1 Social exclusion is an area where transport policy has a significant role to play (Hine, 2000). Social exclusion is not only defined by poverty and deprivation, it is also part of broader political and structural barriers to opportunity. The need and/or accessibility to transport are very much a barrier to opportunity and one which can exacerbate social exclusion in many rural areas. While undoubtedly there is difficulty in conceptualising the relationship between transport and social exclusion, Church et al. (2000) recognise the need for clear indicators to reflect the material and cultural circumstances of different people and how this results in differing dimensions of exclusion. For example, rural households that can no longer afford to maintain a car may be seriously disadvantaged in terms of the level of services or of opportunities for employment that are available to them. Consequently while Bhalla and Lapeyre (1997) suggest that although social exclusion can be compared with the conventional notions of poverty and marginalisation it extends much farther than this to what Murray (1998) describes as “what people have or don’t have”, to that which relates to access to services, the quality of the environment, or the ability to participate—“what people can or can’t do”. While there are few studies exploring transport and social exclusion in Ireland, there is a growing belief that transport and infrastructure development play a determining part in ameliorating the conditions of those rural populations deemed socially excluded. With transport policy in rural Ireland “dated, incomplete and only looking at the macro picture (with) no policy for how a rural person without private transport can increase their mobility for economic or social reasons and . . . (with) . . . no integrated policy of transport provision for those in rural Ireland who are dependent or carers of dependants “ (Kenny and Finn, 1997, p. 18), spatial mobility assumes particular importance. Indeed Turner (2000) argued that barriers to spatial mobility, and the difficulty of job seekers from peripheral locations finding employment without having access to a car, is a significant part of the problem of social exclusion. While modern transport initiatives may bring an improvement in the quality of life of the residents of a particular area2 this must be weighed, not only against environmental costs (air pollution, noise pollution, urban congestion), and the misuse of rural space, but also in terms of increasing spatial patterns of deprivation where there is still a huge gulf between the: ‘affluent and mobile who enjoy the countryside for its environment and amenities, and the less well-off without available private transport who are isolated by distance, cost and the retreat of public services’ (Nutley, 2000, p. 85). In this paper it is perhaps the definition in Partnership 2000 where social exclusion is seen as cumulative marginalisation from production (unemployment), consumption (income poverty), social networks (family, neighbourhood and community), decision-making and from an adequate quality of life (Government of Ireland, 1996) that best encapsulates the argument. However, despite social exclusion gaining increased prominence in Irish government policy objectives (Department of Finance, 1999; NESF, 1997; NESC, 1994), there are still almost two thirds of the economically poor in Ireland living in rural3 areas with almost a quarter of farm families having an income lower than the statutory minimum wage (Naughten, 2003). Added to this, is the gradual decline in population of some of these areas and the consequent reduction in services such as banks, post offices and schools. This low population base and dispersed settlement pattern characteristic of rural Ireland, consequently fuel the controversial debate on providing large-scale services to remote or dispersed populations (Roberts et al., 1999). As a result rural Ireland has become very car dependent with car ownership reaching 86.2% in rural areas compared to 73.3% in urban Ireland (CSO, 2003). High car ownership can however mask the exclusion suffered by some groups within rural society such as older people—there are proportionally more older people in rural (12.5%) than urban (10.2%) Ireland (CSO, 2003); people who are ill or have disabilities (34% live in households with no car) and, people on low incomes (33% live in households with no car) (Naughten, 2003). Consequently there is wide consensus that not only is there a rural transport ‘problem’ in Ireland (see Kenny and Finn, 1997; ADM, 2001) but there is also recognition of a lack of desire to develop an integrated transport system. A transport strategy that will not only support greater development in terms of jobs and a strong economy but one which will help increase prosperity, tackle social exclusion and provide a better quality of life for everyone. The part played by government agencies and institutions in terms of policy creation and its consequences is therefore crucial. The ability to include or exclude individuals, communities or groups from decision-making processes or from benefiting from policies instigated, has far reaching implications for rural populations. In particular the claim by the Irish government to rural-proof
----
4 all policies so as to ensure the future sustainability of rural Ireland seem unconvincing with regard to transport policy instruments (the concern of this paper) and their likely impact on some sections of Irish rural society. 3. The policy environment The policies linking transport and rural development in Ireland are essentially those of: • the National Development Plan 2000–2006 (Department of Finance, 1999) which includes expenditure on transport infrastructure including rural roads; • A Strategy for Rural Development in Ireland—a White Paper on Rural Development (Department of Agriculture and Food, 1999) which provides for balanced regional development and investment in services and infrastructure; • the National Spatial Strategy (NSS) 2002–2020 (Department of Environment and Local Government, 2002) which inter alia examines wider settlement and transport issues, and • the Rural Transport Initiative (RTI) which provides funding for pilot community-led rural transport projects. These policies are variously concerned with rural proofing
----
to ensure policy makers are aware of the likely impact of all proposals on rural communities in terms of maintaining viable rural populations; quality of life and more balanced social, economic and physical development between the regions. Concentrating on the relationship between transport and the well-being of rural society the White Paper (Department of Agriculture and Food, 1999) recognises that (a) economic development is dependent on modern infrastructure and service provision in order to enable rural areas to be competitive and sustainable, (b) the provision of infrastructure is critical to ensuring rural areas are attractive places in which to live and work (p. 22) and (c) there is a need to provide essential public services in rural areas to ensure a proper environment for economic development, promote social inclusion and support viable rural communities
----
(p. 2). There is however no substantial proposal on how this is to be achieved and if anything there is huge potential for conflict between the ecoauditing and rural proofing strategies advocated. While the rural environment is to be respected and development in rural areas is to take place in a sustainable manner, there is a strong push by the government for infrastructural developments, which have a direct impact on the rural environment and, may or may not improve rural residents
----
mobility or accessibility. The White Paper calls for the rural environment to be protected yet it also supports the NDP
----
s (Department of Finance, 1999) promotion of more road construction to ensure that rural areas can compete successfully for inward investment and remain competitive for indigenous industry
----
(Department of Agriculture and Food, 1999, p. 30). In terms of more roads
----
(particularly that which is directed through the National Roads Authority (NRA)) there is an obvious concentration on ‘engineering principles’ with little by the way of rigorous debate or inclusion of the social dimension. In terms of the NRA Roads Needs Study
----
(NRA, 1998), there seems an over-emphasis on new road construction, a minimal push for improving the existing network, and a complete lack of statement on which areas might benefit from these new roadways, to what degree, and at what cost to the environment. Haynes (1997) in exploring aspects of infrastructural development in the USA reflects to a great extent the current Irish approach in that: transportation infrastructure is implemented through the planning for individual projects. Initial infrastructure planning is based on the simple calculus of rate of return on investment (ROI) or cost-benefit (C/B) analysis, while infrastructure capacity expansion is a function of assessing existing capacity and forecasting future demand levels
----
(p. 23). Consequently there is not only conflict within/between policies but there is also little by way of discussion on the provision of public transportation as an alternative. The only recognition of this issue is through the rather obvious suggestion that the absence of an adequate public transport service in all areas means that transport is a major contributing factor in marginalisation and that innovative approaches to transport provision in rural areas is required
----
(Department of Agriculture and Food, 1999, p. 32). While innovative approaches may be required there is little in terms of policy that would seem to drive this thinking. There is a strategy document on Sustainable Development (Department of Environment and Local Government, 1997a,b); an Operational Programme for Transport, 1994–1999; the Public Transport Investment Priorities for the Millennium (Report of the Joint Committee on Public Enterprise and Transport, November 1999) and the 2nd Programme for Prosperity and Fairness. It is however from the Transport Policy Green Paper, published by the Department of Communications in 1985 that the provision of public transport in Ireland is largely drawn. This standing policy paper focuses on inter-regional, regional and city transport issues with little or no recognition of local/rural transport issues (Kenny and Finn, 1997). This policy (along with the 1932 Road Transport Act) is long over due for reform. While Kenny and Finn (1997, p. 17) described how the Green Paper referred to the problem of providing adequate transport services for the old, the young and the infirm and those who cannot afford a car as . . . a significant one
----
, there has been little policy response in the intervening years except perhaps the recently launched €4.5m rural transport initiative (RTI) with its primary objective of promoting and supporting the development of innovative, community-based public transport pilot projects. The creation of the Department of Transport in June 2002 can also be viewed as a step in the right direction as it brings some measure of cohesion to what had been up to now a very fragmented set-up (responsibility for transport was divided across four government departments and the revenue commissioners). Initial enthusiasm is tempered however by the continued lack of input from local authorities and the top–down ethos which sees contradictory strategies, not only for transport policies, but also for rural development. Such contradictions are highlighted in this paper where specific transport policy instruments are potentially excluding already marginalised rural communities. The Irish governments declarations of striving for balanced regional development and an equitable rural–urban Ireland can, as a consequence, be called in to question. 4. Policy instruments promoting exclusion Rural households are generally accepted as being more structurally dependent on cars than their urban counterparts (Roberts et al., 1999). In fact it could easily be argued that car ownership in most rural areas is not a luxury but a necessity, a precondition for employment and even a modest quality of life (see Lightfoot, 1995). Shucksmith (2000) highlighted this in his study on rural Scotland when he suggested that unemployed people living outside major towns and cities face massive problems in finding work if they do not have their own transport. Given this obviousness
----
, it is not surprising that rural travel in Ireland accounts for 83% of annual vehicle-kilometres with the level of single and multiple car ownership greater in rural areas (86.2%) than in urban areas (73.3%) a sharp increase from the 1991 figures of 74.6% and 59.5% respectively (CSO, 2003). These high ownership rates tell two stories. The first is that despite a prosperous economy there has been an overall lack of commitment to rural infrastructural deficiencies particularly in terms of public transport. The second is that this high ownership rate can be misleading. Cloke (1993, p. 117) suggested that rising car ownership, does not suggest the solving of problems of lack of access and immobility in the countryside
----
. Those without access to a car [for example in the rural counties of Galway 17% do not have access to a car; Leitrim 19%; Mayo 21% and Sligo 22% (CSO, 2003)] are left with a sense of isolation from the community and a feeling of being trapped either at home or away from home
----
(Cloke, 1993) waiting for a bus (where such is available) or more likely for a lift from a neighbour. Cloke
----
s (1993) study also highlighted that an analysis of the vehicles in rural households displayed very definite trends with women, the elderly and the young unable to own/avail of private transport becoming marginalised because of the lack of public transportation. The National Household Budget Surveys also depict increased burdens on rural households where far more is spent in rural households on transport than in urban households, while Lucas et al. (2001) and Gray et al. (1998) established that many rural residents were making financial sacrifices (on other significant needs) in order to retain their transport means (motorists among the poorest fifth of population committed up to 24% of their total expenditure to running their car with the figure falling to 16% for the richest fifth). It is the argument here that transport policy instruments (e.g. fuel price increases, motor tax, excise duties) while in some cases reducing environmental costs, can also adversely affect certain types of rural households (see also Farrington et al., 1998). The differences across rural space, from areas in close proximity to urban centres and public transport routes to those in the more peripheral regions, suggest that the introduction of policy instruments without geographical considerations and rural-proofing will affect those households which are less directly responsible (for congestion, pollution etc.) and at the same time have more limited options for altering their driving habits
----
(Roberts et al., 1999). This inequitable impact of policy instruments on rural populations is a significant factor in promoting social exclusion.


1ac plan

The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in rural transportation infrastructure in the United States.

Solvency

The federal government is capable of positive social change- the system isn’t inherently benevolent or evil
Smith 2012 (Andrea, “The Moral Limits of the Law: Settler Colonialism and the Anti-Violence Movement” settler colonial studies 2, 2 (2012) Special Issue: Karangatia: Calling Out Gender and Sexuality in Settler Societies)
What this story troubles is social justice movements’ investment in the morality of the law. Despite the US legal system’s complicity in settler colonialism, patriarchy, capitalism and white supremacy since its inception, they advocate strategies for change that rest on the presupposition that the law can somehow be made to support the end of sexism, racism and classism. Historically, as more radical racial and social justice organisations were either crushed or co-opted by the US governments during the 1970s, these movements shifted from a focus on a radical restructuring of the political and economic system to a focus on articulating identity based claims that did not necessarily challenge the prevailing power structure.13 If groups were not going to directly challenge the state, they could then call on the state to recognise their claims to equality and redress from harms perpetrated by other social actors. Ironically, then, the same US government that codified slavery, segregation, anti-immigrant racism, and the genocide of indigenous peoples, now becomes the body that will protect people of colour from racism. The fact that the US itself could not exist without the past and continuing genocide of indigenous peoples in particular does not strike liberal legal reformists as a contradiction. Bell suggests that it may be possible to engage in legal reform in the midst of these contradictions if one foregoes the fantasy that the law is morally benevolent or even neutral. In doing so, more possibilities for strategic engagement emerge. For instance, in the ‘Racial Preference Licensing Act’, Bell suggests that rather than criminalise racial discrimination, the government should allow discrimination, but tax it. Taxes accrued from this discrimination would then go into an ‘equality’ fund that would support the educational and economic interests of African-Americans.14 As I have argued elsewhere, the law enforcement approach has been similarly limited in addressing the issues of gender violence when the majority of men do, or express willingness to engage in, it.15 As a result, criminalisation has not actually led to a decrease in violence against women.16 Anti-violence activists and scholars have widely critiqued the supposed efficacy of criminalisation.17 As I will discuss later in this essay, Native women in particular have struggled with the contradictions of engaging the legal system to address the legacies of colonial gender violence. While there is growing critique around criminalisation as the primary strategy for addressing gender violence, there has not been attention to what other frameworks could be utilised for addressing gender violence. In particular, what would happen if we pursued legal strategies based on their strategic effects rather than based on the moral statements they propose to make?

Talking about the state does not mean we grant it legitimacy. Justifying proposals need specific solvency that works within the system ----
Frost 96 Mervyn FROST, Professor, University of Kent [Ethics In International Relations A Constitutive Theory, pp. 90-91]
A first objection which seems inherent in Donelan's approach is that utilizing the modern state domain of discourse in effect sanctifies the state: it assumes that people will always live in states and that it is not possible within such a language to consider alternatives to the system. This objection is not well founded. By having recourse to the ordinary language of international relations I am not thereby committed to argue that the state system as it exists is the best mode of human political organization or that people ought always to live in states as we know them. As I have said, my argument is that whatever for piecemeal or large-scale reform of the state system are made, they must of necessity be made in the language of the modern state. Whatever proposals are made, whether in justification or in criticism of the state system, will have to make use of concepts which are at present part and parcel of the theory of states. Thus, for example, any proposal for a new global institutional arrangement superseding the state system will itself have to be justified, and that justification will have to include within it reference to a new and good form of individual citizenship, reference to a new legislative machinery equipped with satisfactory checks and balances, reference to satisfactory law enforcement procedures, reference to a satisfactory arrangement for distributing the goods produced in the world, and so on. All of these notions are notions which have been developed and finely honed within the theory of the modern state. It is not possible to imagine a justification of a new world order succeeding which used, for example, feudal, or traditional/tribal, discourse. More generally there is no worldwide language of political morality which is not completely shot through with state-related notions such as citizenship, rights under law, representative government and so on.

debating transportation policy effectuates political change and allows for civic engagement
Thomas 8 — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 16-17)
Education and Participatory Action Projects
Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007). Educating young people is crucial to their participation: it provides the skills and knowledge that allow them to navigate complex political processes, access the social networks that anchor them in the political system, and develop interest in engaging political issues. CPRN’s youth workshop on civic and political participation revealed a desire for early civics education, integrated throughout the curriculum (CPRN 2007).
Several participatory action research (PAR) projects have addressed youth and transportation. Generally, these projects have the goal of educating young people on sustainable transportation and the larger planning process, but their secondary goal is empowerment. They teach young people research skills and encourage them to inform and motivate their peers. Again, these cannot be classed as either civic or insurgent political participation, since they contain elements of both. While only one of these examples is Canadian, the others illustrate the possibilities of combining education and action-oriented participation. The St. Lucie Transportation Planning Organization in Florida conducted a PAR project that aimed to involve youth in the transportation planning process by “bringing them to the transportation planning table, and giving them tools to intelligently participate in the process.” (Bonet 2004, no page number available). The goals were to give youth the tools to understand and make recommendations for their transportation future, and to develop a sustainable transportation plan for their community. The students researched transportation systems on the Internet, brought guest speakers into the classroom, and interviewed experts outside of the classroom. They job shadowed staff in transportation careers, participated in two leadership conferences, and ended up producing a transportation survey and eight videos on different transportation issues. They presented their long-range transportation plan to the county commissioners, Florida DOT officials, school board members and legislative delegates in June of 2002. [end page 16] As a result of their efforts, the commissioners and city council eventually agreed to create a Municipal Service Taxing Unit to fund long-term transit costs.
“Catching Them Young,” a project undertaken in Manchester, UK, was a one-year attempt to influence young people’s modal choice through a short-term intensive educational intervention (Pilling et al. 1999). The target age range was 12-23 years old. Phase One involved gathering travel data from young people across Greater Manchester on current travel behavior and attitudes towards different travel modes. Phase Two was the development of educational/awareness-raising materials, drawing on thoughts and ideas from the youth themselves, with local youth workers and a university visual arts department. Phase Three measured their response to the materials. Ninety percent of the young people changed their attitudes about cost and image; 95 percent said that the environment had increased in importance as a factor in their travel decisions. Ninety-five percent perceived the car more negatively, 90-95 percent perceived all of the alternative modes more positively. Because the intervention involved lifestyle changes, the integration of the participants into the creation of the materials was instrumental. The authors recommend that this type of educational intervention be used in tandem with increased youth participation in transportation planning.
offramp is a Canadian youth-led initiative that encourages youth to change attitudes and circumstances so that high school students increasingly walk, cycle, take transit, skateboard, rollerblade and carpool to school (Orsini 2003). Better Environmentally Sound Transportation (BEST), a federal charity that promotes sustainable transportation alternatives, started the program in 1991. High school student leaders in offramp are encouraged to investigate the barriers and incentives to alternative modes of travel and create projects that can raise awareness, reward good behavior and generate opportunities to use alternative travel modes. Between 1991 and 2001, fifteen British Columbia schools piloted the student-led transportation demand management program. Student leaders select from an ever-growing list of activities to run at their school: bike fashion/bike trick shows, the creation of videos, and a “how slow can you go?” bike race where the slowest bike wins. Each student leader is also asked to lead a longer-term initiative, like fundraising for a bike rack or petitioning for a bus shelter in front of their school.
These examples show that educating young people about the political processes associated with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.
Engaging in debates over the nuts and bolts of transportation infrastructure policy is key to civic engagement and democracy
Brown, 10-
Ernest C. Brown, recognized authority in construction litigation, public works projects and contract management who has resolved more than 2,500 construction disputes, holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an M.S. in Construction Management from the University of California-Berkeley, and a J.D. from the University of California-Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law, 2010 (“California Projects & Delivery Systems,” California Infrastructure Projects: A Guide to Successful Contracting and Dispute Resolution, Published by Ernest Brown & Company, LLC, ISBN 9781576253663, Available Online at http://constructionlawyers.com/CM/book/chapter-01.html,
While the word “infrastructure” rings widely in public speeches of every political stripe during every election cycle, the nuts and bolts of such projects remain largely inaccessible and obscure to the voting citizenry.
Yet, a keen understanding of the implications and costs of public infrastructure projects is essential to democracy and the shape of the future in California. The creation of infrastructure is a vital process that requires a healthy dose of California sunshine and the participation of local citizens.
A knowledgeable citizenry will assure that public projects are responsive to public needs, whether they are schools, parks, marinas, sports arenas, convention centers, public buildings, highways, hospitals, schools, water and wastewater treatment facilities and conveyances, public golf courses or sports fields. These facilities promote a unique and healthy life for our children and a beautiful, unique and pleasant environment for all of California’s 35 million residents.
Each potential project encompasses a unique recipe of planning, architecture, engineering, project finance, construction management and inevitable conflicts and sticky dollops of state and local politics. There are winners and losers. These projects are the heart and soul of the public expenditure budget. The accomplishments of public projects are built to last, as are their mistakes, and, unlike many current government programs, will be paid for by future generations.
The creation of public infrastructure involves making tough choices about civic priorities. The public trough is not limitless. It takes careful stewardship of public funds to meet the essential public needs of transportation, safe water, education, law enforcement and healthcare. While the immediate beneficiaries of a project may be the local residents (neighborhood parks) or the region as a whole (airports), these projects should nurture a larger community and improve public safety, economic security and business prosperity.

Our bettering of peoples lives solves- only they create true historical change and significance
Rajan and Duncan 2013 (S. Ravi, Colin A.M. “Ecologies of Hope: environment, technology and habitation - case studies from the intervenient middle” Journal of Political Ecology Vol. 20 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jpe.library.arizona.edu/volume_20/Rajan.pdf]]</span>)

The world is rife with a million mutinies now.2 Seemingly everywhere are protests against dams and nuclear power plants; 'occupy' movements against large financial institutions and Wall Street; and coordinated campaigns against governments, corporations, and the World Bank. These spectacles are often big, vocal, and visible (Benítez 2011; Castells 1985; Danaher 1994; Della Porta and Diani 2006; O'Brien 2000; Rich 1994). They make the news. They also gain scholarly attention. Practitioners of the discipline of political ecology have produced tens of dissertations on various environmental struggles from around the world, and on the discourses that legitimate development theory and practice (Peet and Watts 2004). Scholars in Science and Technology Studies (STS) have similarly analyzed the entanglements between knowledge and power; explored the cultural underpinnings of environmental analytical and mitigation systems; and argued for democracy and accountability (Cozzens and Woodhouse 1995; Hackett et al. 2008). Yet, for millions of people around the world, there are issues more immediate, more urgent, than addressing political economic equity or designing some new social or technological utopia. What is critical to them is ensuring that they have niches for day-to-day survival. These may take the form of 'appropriate technologies' such as small dams that help irrigate their farmlands. They can also take the form of an organizational structure that yields them slightly better prices for their produce. They might consist of viable land reforms that enable them to eke out livelihoods from farming. They could assume the shape of a design that produces more convivial spaces for how they live, work, and commute. Or indeed, they can be about landscapes and infrastructures that bridge livelihoods and ecological limitations. Some of these niches occur in highly localized contexts, such as a village or a farm. Others are collaborations between 'local' people and globally networked agents; or between the formally educated and those who are not, such as, for example, between engineers and laypeople. Such entities and interactions are the subject of this special issue. The cases discussed herein attempt to create spaces for bettering human lives and livelihoods. Arguably, with some specific exceptions, they do not make much of a dent on the wider political economic equations that, reworked, might define a just world (Harvey 1996). They are not new social movements or novel forms of resistance, or even examples of popular protest and mobilization against bio-power in any form (Escobar 1984; Habermas 1981; O'Brien 2000; Rabinow and Rose 2006; Wignaraja 1993). Neither are they examples of frontiers of a new socially engaged capitalism, exemplified by the mantra of fortune at the bottom of the pyramid (Prahalad 2010). They are what they are – discrete, specific, and often, local. Needless to say, it is perfectly possible to dismiss such cases as historically uninteresting, because they are less likely to produce large-scale change. Indeed, in the history of Marxism, interventions of the kinds discussed in this volume were dismissed as "reformist," and criticized as being counter-revolutionary (Gorz 1968). We disagree with all such reductive and/or condescending acts of labelling as just so much intellectualist baggage. Adopting what might seem to be an overly crass and pragmatic perspective, it appears indeed that for millions of people and hundreds of ecosystems, discrete initiatives to ensure their survival are the only 'revolutions' that will ever happen – at least in their lifetimes. Such initiatives, and the motivations that underlie them, cannot therefore be understood only with recourse to an analytical framework about resistance to big power, technology, state or capital. We argue that in order to be historically significant, social change need not just be about large, transformational events recognizable as revolutionary, but can equally be about relatively localized everyday attempts to marginally improve the day-to-day drudgery of life. The cases such as we report on here can, in effect, be understood as attempts at creating habitation "in the middle." We use the term "middle" deliberately, and do so with reference to three senses of the term. Firstly, we invoke G. W. Hoskin's term "middle peasants" to describe solid conventional householders, the hearts and souls of their communities (Hoskins 1953; Hoskins 1957; Hoskins and Stamp 1963; Hoskins 1964; Hoskins 1969; Hoskins 1976). For us, the five cases in this collection, and the wider trends they represent, are movements driven by the souls of communities (though in our case, not always rural), acting in the best interests of their groups, but in doing so, producing spaces and niches, or ecologies of hope, that have appeal and resonance beyond the local. Second, we use the term 'middle' as representing spaces between the individual (whether as consumer or protester), and larger formations, such as the state, or technological constellations, or big capital. Thirdly, we use the term 'middle' to mark the terrain that is inbetween social and economic status quo and revolution. The purpose of this collection is deliberately to ignore the big events, the bookends of history, as it were, and to look carefully at the "middle;" at what lies between the bookends. By definition, exploring the "middle" implies examining the local and the contextual, as well as considering culturally and temporally bound episodes. Nevertheless, our thesis is that the seemingly disparate can add up to something broader or more universal – and, in the process, tell us something about humanity's relations with itself and the rest of nature; about potential sources of emancipation and livelihood; and about the best uses of freedom. The purpose of this special issue, then, is to use a few carefully constructed case studies from around the world to examine the ecologies of hope, the complex web of interconnected events and processes, structures and agents – humanity and nature in action – to help deepen and broaden our understanding of change and agency.



=Round 6= 
v Carrolton AR

1NC: Gender K, T-Energy, New Affs Bad, Investment spec, States/Privatization, Chinese FDI, Buy America DA, Coercion, Politics (Immigration with Heg Impact), Case D
2NR: Gender

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]