**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 30px;">WESTMINSTER HW</span>**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Bryant Wang|H]]ome
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
[[toc]]
=Heg Good= 

**Even if hegemonic decline is inevitable, the plan will set up a smooth transition and prevent great power war**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dolman: Well, I think that some assumptions … </span>__create and enforce some sort of order.__

**Only U.S. primacy prevents conflict escalation – no other state could fill its gap**
**Joffe 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Josef, Senior Fellow at Stanford's Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, ("The Default Power Subtitle: The False Prophecy of America's Decline", Foreign Affairs, Oct 2009)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States was far … as housekeeper of the world.</span>

**Heg collapse causes wild-fire proliferation**
**Rosen 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Peter </span>Rosen<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (PhD from Harvard University in 1979 and is currently the Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs in the Department of Government, Harvard University) Spring </span>2003<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “An Empire, If you Can Keep It,” The National Interest, , LN Academic, UK: Fisher</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than wrestle with such … </span>__are that much more attractive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Heg is sustainable and declinists are wrong – heg fosters stability and prevents prolif in East Asia**
**Cook et al 10 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Malcolm, East Asia Program Director at the Lowy Institute for International Policy (June 2010, MacArthur Foundation and the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs, Rory Medcalf, Andrew Shearer, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/images/uploads/blog_attachments/Asian_security_futures_-_final_version.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, in 2010, </span>__it is widely … now North Korean nuclear capability.__

**Hegemonic decline causes proliferation and great power war.**
**Khalilzad 95** Zalmay Khalilzad, Rand Corporation, The Washington Quarterly 1995

<span style="text-decoration: none;">What might happen to the world … </span>a multipolar balance of power system.

**Heg checks US-Russia war**
**Nichols 09** Thomas M. Professor of National Security Affairs and Forrest Sherman Chair of Public Diplomacy, United States Naval War College, Research Fellow for the Belfer Center, International Security Program/Project on Managing the Atom, 2008–2011 "Improving Russia-U.S. Relations: The Next Steps" Belfer Center, June 2009, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19135/improving_russiaus_relations.html NEH)

The current administration, like its predecessors, … is a recipe for gridlock.


**American Leadership is key to preventing future conflict in the Middle East**
**Christopher 04** (December 30, Warren, New York Times staff writer, http://select.nytimes.com/search/restricted/article?res=FB0B14F93C5D0C738FDDAB0994DC404482)

America has always … the past four years' failures.

=Topicality= 
==Not Military== 

**We Meet**
**Earles 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of CANEUS, Canada-Europe-USA-Asia: development of micro-nano-technologies for future aerospace applications (Marion “Rick” Earles, “AIS and Data Extraction Backbone”, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf, DR. H)</span>

__The USCG has partnered with a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Border Protection seems clear.</span>


**Development includes military uses**
**NASA Authorization Act 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (PUBLIC LAW 111-314 [H.R. 3237] DEC. 18, 2010 [SPACE PROGRAMS LAWS CODIFICATION] 111 P.L. 314; 124 Stat. 3328; 2010 Enacted H.R. 3237; 111 Enacted H.R. 3237, proquest Congressional)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (b) Aeronautical and Space Activities … be made by the President.</span>

==Its== 

**Its means associated with**
**Oxford Dictionaries Online**, No Date<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Its”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]]</span>)</span>
its
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Entry from World dictionary</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pronunciation:/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ɪ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ts/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">possessive determiner</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">belonging to or </span>__associated with a thing previously mentioned__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or easily identified: turn the camera on its side</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">he chose the area for its atmosphere</span>

==Of== 
**Of means relating to**
**CDO 10** Cambridge Dictionaries Online (“Of (Relating to)”, http://dictionaries.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=of*6+0&dict=A)

Definition
of (RELATING TO)
[Show phonetics]
preposition
about, or relating to
Speaking of Elizabeth, here she is.
There's a chapter on the use of herbs for medicinal purposes.


**Of means concerning**
**OED 3rd Edition 11** (“Of”, http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/100354?redirectedFrom=its#eid)

VIII. Indicating the subject matter of thought, feeling, or action.
25. Concerning, about; with regard to, regarding.


**Of means “done to” or “involving”**
**CDO 10** Cambridge Dictionaries Online (“Of (Done to)”, http://dictionaries.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=of*6+0&dict=A)

of (DONE TO)
[Show phonetics]
preposition
done to or involving
the destruction of the rain forests
the graduation of the class of 2001
==Beyond== 

**Beyond means to further reaching or to the further side of**
**Oxford Dictionary**
http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/beyond?view=uk

1 at or to the further side of:[as preposition] :he pointed to a spot beyond the concealing trees[as adverb] :from south of Dortmund as far as Essen and beyond [preposition] outside the physical limits or range of:the hook which held the chandelier was beyond her reach more extensive or extreme than; further -reaching than:[as preposition] :what these children go through is far beyond what most adults endure in a lifetimethe authority of the inspectors goes beyond ordinary police powers[as adverb] :pushing the laws to their limits and beyond


**Beyond means outside**
**Macmillan Dictionary**
http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/american/beyond
1
past a place or outside an area
a.
farther away than something else
He could see a line of cypress trees and, beyond it, a landscape of red hills.
Traders looked eastward to India and beyond.
b.
outside a particular area
By now Dr. Barnard’s fame had spread far beyond South Africa.


**Beyond means on or to the farther side**
**Merriam Webster**
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/beyond?show=0&t=1308684144

Definition of BEYOND
1
: on or to the farther side : farther
==Staffed== 

**Space development is satellites**
**Yamanouchi 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, President of the National Space Development Agency (NASDA) in Japan (Shuichiro Yamanouchi, “ [Business leaders] Space and the Global Environment” http://www.japanfs.org/en/pages/011507.html)</span>

__The objective of space …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">it is not a good business.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
==Preexisting== 
**We meet: Last year the Coast Guard attempted the plan**
<span class="Underline">**Selding 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter Selding, Staff Writer for Defense News, “Tracking Ships From Space” 4/10, Online [FH])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With International Maritime Organization regulations … -equipped satellites failed in orbit. </span>


**Development includes the creation of something new**
**Macmillan Dictionary****11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/american/development</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 [uncountable] change, growth, or … on the edge of town</span>

=Kritiques= 
=="Guys" K== 

**Turn—masking—focusing solely on the language used to describe something masks the problem and makes it harder to confront**
**Meisner 95**, professor of environmental studies at York University, 1995 (Mark, “Resourcist Language: The Symbolic Enslavement of Nature”, Proceedings of the Conference on Communication and Our Environment, ed: David Sachsman, p. 242)

Changing the language we use … , or that it is deterministic.

**Turn - their argument assumes a … constructed reality in the past**
**Kurtz and Oscarson 03** Anna Kurtz and Christopher Oscarson, Members of National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College, Composition and Communication, 2003 ("BookTalk: Revising the Discourse of Hate," ProQuest)

However, Butler also argues that … in which everyone feels safe.

==Astropolitics K== 

**No prior questions—focus on critical theory causes a policy paralysis**
<span class="CardTagandCiteChar">**Owen 02** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span class="CardTagandCiteChar">2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> p. 655-7</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>


**Focus on reps destroys social change**
**Taft-Kaufman, 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jill, professor, Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts, at Central Michigan University, Southern Communication Journal, Spring, proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The postmodern passwords of "polyvocality," "… </span>the budgets that fuel them.


**Moving away from security creates new challengers and increases the risk of war**
**Doran, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Professor of International Relations at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, Survival, 1999, Summer, p. 148-9, proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conclusion, then, is that … </span>__in the end to war__


**Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.**
**Mearsheimer 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The optimists' claim that security … in each region at peace.</span>


**Debates about threats in the academic world result in better policy-making—real threats can be confronted and risks can be weighed.**
**Walt 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago – 1991 (Stephen, INTERNATIONAL STUDIES QUARTERLY, p. 229-30)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A recurring theme of this … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">an additional avenue of influence</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Heternormativity K== 

**Value to life is inevitable, subjective, and they don’t control the link to it—death turns the imapct**
**Shermer, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–Michael, founder of the Skeptics Society and Editor of Skeptic Magazine, “"The Meaning of Life, the Universe, and Everything"”—Commencement Speech at Whittier College, 5/23/08 http://www.whittier.edu/News/Articles/2008CommencementSpeech.aspx</span>

__Purpose is personal, and there … which is outside of ourselves.__


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No prior questions—focus on critical theory causes a policy paralysis</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Owen 02** – David</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span class="CardTagandCiteChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> p. 655-7</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>


**Heternormative** **thought just reproduces stereotypes**
**Witworth, 94** prof of political science and female studies @ York U, (Feminism and International Relations, pg 20,

Even when not concerned with mothering … give feminists pause to reconsider this position.


**Value to life is inevitable, subjective, and they don’t control the link to it—death turns the imapct**
**Shermer, 8** –Michael, founder of the Skeptics Society and Editor of Skeptic Magazine, “"The Meaning of Life, the Universe, and Everything"”—Commencement Speech at Whittier College, 5/23/08 http://www.whittier.edu/News/Articles/2008CommencementSpeech.aspx

Purpose is personal, and there are … outside of ourselves.


**Extinction outweighs**
**Nye, 86** (Joseph S. 1986; Phd Political Science Harvard. University; Served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs; “Nuclear Ethics” pg. 45-46)

Is there any end that could … prudential and moral reasoning.

==Heg Bad K== 

**Reps don’t affect reality – material structure are more important**
**Tuathail 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

While theoretical debates at academic … it needs to always be open to the patterned mess that is human history.


**Conflict has decreased over the past years**
**Pinker 9-24**-11, Steven, Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. “Violence Vanquished” Wall Street Journal, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html?mod=WSJ_hp_LEFTTopStories]] NEH)

On the day this article appears, you will read … enlightenment that made it possible.


**Critiquing American empire is dangerous whining. Embracing is a recipe for decreasing hegemony**
**Kagan 1998** – PhD, graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, adjunct history professor at Georgetown, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, Foreign Policy, “The benevolent empire”)

<span class="HeaderChar">Those contributing to the growing … of the next American humbling</span>**.**


**Vote them down because their speech-act jeopardizes the lives of our soldiers. Complaining undermines vital resolve which is key to winning**
**EYAGO 05** Political Commentary – Sound Politics Reporter [7/8, http://www.soundpolitics.com/archives/004721.html, Sound Commentary on Current Events in Seattle, Puget Sound and Washington State]

Finally, <span class="HeaderChar">I am angry at those … </span>political gain is completely unconscionable.


**Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.**
**Mearsheimer 1** (professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361)

The optimists' claim that security … in each region at peace.

==Barelife K== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No prior questions—focus on critical theory causes a policy paralysis</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Owen 02** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">David</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span class="CardTagandCiteChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>


**Extinction outweighs**
**Nye, 86** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph S. 1986; Phd Political Science Harvard. University; Served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs; “Nuclear Ethics” pg. 45-46)</span>

__Is there any end that … both prudential and moral reasoning.__


**Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.**
**Mearsheimer 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The optimists' claim … in each region at peace.</span>


**Method can’t be evaluated in a vacuum- to do so is useless**
**Bunge 83**- Mario Bunge, Treatise on basic Philosophy Vol 6: Epistemology and Methodology II: Understanding the world, 1983 p. 207
Tenth, the methodics of … keeping busy and possibly salaried.


**The academy is too focused on method at the expense of policy – this devastates education**
**Jentleson, 02** (Bruce, Director of the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy and Professor of Public Policy and Political Science at Duke University, International Security 26.4 (2002) 169-183, projectmuse)
Overall, international relations and political science as … science Ph.D. programs.


**Empiricism is the most useful form of knowledge for policymakers—useful in making theories to shape policy**
**Walt, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Prof, Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard (Stephen M., Annu. Rev. Polit. Sci. 2005. 8:23–48, </span>pg. 25-26,<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> “The Relationship Between Theory and Policy in International Relations,” http://www.iheid.ch/webdav/site/political_science/shared/political_science/3452/walt.pdf)</span>

Policy decisions can be … interpretivist approaches.

=Counter Plans= 
==Environmental Leadership CP== 

**“Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:**
**Merriam Webster ‘9** (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ˈ</span>zälv, -<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ˈ</span>zo<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">̇</span>lv also -<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ˈ</span>zäv or -<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ˈ</span>zo<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">̇</span>v\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

**Neither does “should”**
**Encarta** World English Dictionary 20**05**
(http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861735294)
expressing conditions or consequences: used to express the conditionality of an occurrence and suggest it is not a given, or to indicate the consequence of something that might happen ( used in conditional clauses )

**And it doesn’t sever immediacy**
**Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9** (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
Resolve: “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.”

==National Space Council CP== 

**“Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:**
**Merriam Webster 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"># Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">zälv, -</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">zo</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">̇</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">lv also -</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">zäv or -</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">zo</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">̇</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">v\# Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate </span>


**Neither does “should”**
**Encarta 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> World English Dictionary</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861735294)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">expressing conditions or consequences: used to express the conditionality of an occurrence and suggest it is not a given</span>,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or to indicate the consequence of something that might happen ( used in conditional clauses )</span>


**And it doesn’t sever immediacy**
**Online Plain Text English Dictionary 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)</span>

Resolve:<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.” </span>


**Space councils have no legislative ethos - will be rejected**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Logsdon 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, former Director-Space Policy Institute, and member-NASA Advisory Council, “Chapter 27: Emerging Domestic Structures: Organizing the Presidency for Spacepower,” [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch27.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second observation is that a … </span><span class="underline0">on national security space issues.</span>
==China Cooperation CP== 

**Congress passed a bill banning US China cooperation in space**
**Johnson-Freese, 6-10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joan Johnson-Freese, Professor of National Security Affairs at the U.S. Naval War College June 10, 2011, “US-China Space Cooperation: Congress’ Pointless Lockdown”, China US Focus- Website dedicated to US China Relationship, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.chinausfocus.com/peace-security/us-china-space-cooperation-congress%E2%80%99-pointless-lockdown/]]) BR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In early May when the … – which just isn’t the case.</span>

**China will say no- already developed their own space program and doesn’t want to work with the US**
**Johnson-Freese, 6-10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joan Johnson-Freese, Professor of National Security Affairs at the U.S. Naval War College June 10, 2011, “US-China Space Cooperation: Congress’ Pointless Lockdown”, China US Focus- Website dedicated to US China Relationship, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.chinausfocus.com/peace-security/us-china-space-cooperation-congress%E2%80%99-pointless-lockdown/]]) BR</span>

__China has energetically and broadly …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to develop a robust space program</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cooperating will cause the information to go in the wrong hands—boosts piracy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DSS 09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The world’s leading magazine for information technology in the deep space commercial maritime industry (Digital Ship Ship, September 2009, pg 33, “Giant Leap for space-based AIS” [[http://www.exactearth.com/assets/Marketing-Materials/DigitalShipSept09.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

<span class="Underline">One potential problem with … and tracktheir potential victims.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Remote Vehicles CP</span>== 

**UAVs empirically fail**
**Ehrhard 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff of the US Air Force (Thomas P. Ehrhard, July 2010, “Air Force UAVs: The Secret History”, [[http://www.afa.org/mitchell/reports/MS_UAV_0710.pdf,D|http://www.afa.org/mitchell/reports/MS_UAV_0710.pdf,]] DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the final analysis, however, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the chief of staff </span>

**CP blows**
**Collins 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> veteran freelance writer and a regular Faircount Media Group contributor who has almost twenty years experience reporting about the military (Craig Collins, March 21, 2011, “UAVS: The Future of Border Surveillance? Probably not, according to CRS”, [[http://www.defensemedianetwork.com/stories/uavs-the-future-of-border-surveillance/]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In June of 2010, the … </span>__as a mainstay for border surveillance.__ 

**Space is better than near space**
**JFSC 9** Joint Forces Staff College (January 23, 2009, “Space Operations”, http://blackboard.jfsc.ndu.edu/ajpme_lessons/lesson57/s057/sco060/s057_sco060_003.html)

Space systems provide the ultimate … world simultaneously (e.g., missile warning satellites).

==<span class="Underline">Stratosats CP</span>== 

**Space is better than near space**
**JFSC 9** Joint Forces Staff College (January 23, 2009, “Space Operations”, http://blackboard.jfsc.ndu.edu/ajpme_lessons/lesson57/s057/sco060/s057_sco060_003.html)

Space systems provide the ultimate … world simultaneously (e.g., missile warning satellites).

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">CP links to ozone</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Ozone Hole, No Date</span>**</span> Ozone Hole experts, cite NASA (Accessed 1/4/2012, “NASA Observations Confirm Expected Ozone Layer Recovery”, [[http://www.theozonehole.com/nasa7292003.htm]], DR. H)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">This decrease in the rate … , aircraft and ground based measurements. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Balloon technology fails and there’s a time frame delay to fix the technology</span>**</span>
**Li et al 09** employees for NASA (Alexey Pankine, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, Kerry Nock, American Meteorological Society, August 2009, “Stratospheric Satellites For Earth Observations”, [[http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]], DR. H)


<span style="text-decoration: none;">Unfortunately, NASA has suffered repeated … super-pressure balloon systems (Cathey 2007). </span>

==Naval Heg CP== 
**AQAP terrorist attack independently collapses heg**
**Terrill 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Professor in National Security Affairs (W. Andrew Terrill, January 2011, "The Conflicts in Yemen and US National Security”, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB1040.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Osama bin Laden and the </span>__al-… Yemen and the Middle East.__


**We already have a 2-1 fleet to the 2nd strongest navy**
**Work 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, VP of Strategic Studies @ Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Strategy for the Long Haul: the US Navy Charting A Course for Tomorrow’s Fleet”, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What this means is that </span>… potential naval competitors only widens<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Pure Naval approachtakes too long**
**Navy 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(May 29, 2007, “Navy Maritime Domain Awareness Concept”, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/Navy_Maritime_Domain_Awareness_Concept_FINAL_2007.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

Scope:
**__The time horizon for fully …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Director of National Intelligence </span>


==International CP== 

**Coast Guard unilateralism is key**
**Santos and Lunday 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lieutenant Commander Chief, Logistics Department at Maritime Intelligence Fusion Center Atlantic and Captain, Commanding Officer at Maritime Intelligence Fusion Center Atlantic (Brian Santos, Kevin Lunday, 2009, “International Engagement”, [[http://www.uscg.mil/proceedings/summer2009/summer2009.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How does intelligence relate to … </span>__allied military and intelligence services.__

=Disads= 
==Politics DA== 
**[cards that apply every tournament]**

**Coast Guard shields the link**
**CGN 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coast Guard News (“Congress Approves Coast Guard Budget”, September 29, 2010, http://coastguardnews.com/congress-approves-coast-guard-budget/2010/09/29/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Frank A. </span>LoBiondo<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (NJ-02), … devastating cuts to the Service.” </span>


**Lieberman supports port security programs for the Coast Guard**
**CongressDaily 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(March 1, 2010, “Senators Oppose Coast Guard Budget Cut”, [[https://mail.google.com/mail/#inbox/13540db7748edbc4|https://mail.google.com/mail/#inbox/13540db7748edbc4]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON -- </span>__Senate Homeland Security … operations of the U.S. Coast Guard."__


**Lieberman is key to the agenda**
**Brooks 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">columnist for NYT, senior editor at The Weekly Standard, a contributing editor at Newsweek and the Atlantic Monthly (David Brooks, January 20, 2011, “A Most Valuable Democrat”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/21/opinion/21brooks.html?_r=1&hp]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decisive meeting occurred during … a practical interest in producing results. </span>


**Winners Win**
**CAF 11** – Campaign for America’s Future – the strategy center for the progressive movement in the united states, operates the “The Institute for America's Future”a 501(c)(3) non-partisan, non-profit organization, they picked up this particular post from “fake consultant” a frequent political interlocutor who chooses to publish anonymously and has been publishing under this name since 2007 (Center for America’s Future Blog, January 26, 2011 “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win”, http://www.ourfuture.org/blog-entry/2011010426/done-deals-or-sometimes-losing-how-you-win)JCP

Right off the bat, you … until further down the road.


**Issues are compartmentalized – political capital has no effect on legislation**
**Dickinson, 09** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)

As for Sotomayor, from here the path … cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.


==Spending DA== 

**No impact to deficit spending – investors won’t dump treasuries**
**Krugman 8/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Nobel Prize Winning Economist, Professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton (Paul, PhD in Economics from MIT, “The Hijacked Crisis” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/12/opinion/the-hijacked-crisis.html?_r=2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What made this so bizarre … </span>__make the economy even weaker.__


**Obama enjoys spending—raises taxes**
**Hanson 7/28** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">classicist and historian at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University (Victor Davis Hanson, July 28, 2011, “Obama's Spending Addiction”, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2011/07/28/obamas_spending_addiction_110741.html]], DRH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span>Obama does not care much about deficits<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … of private-sector compensation. </span>


**No impact—__last recession proves__ … doesn’t determine conflict or instability**
**Barnett 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC and a contributing editor/online columnist for Esquire magazine, columnist for World Politics Review (8/25, Thomas P.M. “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” World Politics Review, [[http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx]], WEA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">When the global financial crisis … </span>__what the Internet is for.__

==Debris DA== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">LEO crowding is non-unique and inevitable -- their author. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Day, ’11 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Michael, Telegraph UK, “Space junk: a risky game of space invaders,” 2-1, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8135495/Space-junk-a-risky-game-of-space-invaders.html]]]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The space around our planet … they hit the wrong part."</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Private sector & UN solve. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Day, ’11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> [Michael, Telegraph UK, “Space junk: a risky game of space invaders,” 2-1, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8135495/Space-junk-a-risky-game-of-space-invaders.html]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The private sector, in the … due to space weather events."</span>
==Ozone DA== 

**Alt causes to ozone—cold air**
**Green Dump 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">News Site about the Environment (September 12, 2011, “Significant Ozone Hole Remains Over Antarctica”, [[http://www.greendump.net/planet-save/significant-ozone-hole-remains-over-antarctica]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each spring </span>__the ozone hole__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … to persist in the atmosphere.”</span>


**Link Empirically denied—AIS satellites were launched last year with no impact.**
<span class="Underline">**Selding 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Staff Writer for Defense News and Space News (Peter Selding, March 25, 2011, “Neck & Neck Race To Be First in Tracking Ships From Space”, http://www.spacenews.com/satellite_telecom/110325-race-tracking-ships-space.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With International Maritime Organization regulations … -equipped satellites failed in orbit. </span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NASA 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Q. </span><span class="Underline">Is it true that … global impact would be inconsequential</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**Healing of the Ozone Hole accelerates warming**
**Bhanoo 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">previously an environmental reporter for The New York Times, the Observatory columnist for The New York Times (Sindya N. Bhanoo, “The Ozone Hole is Mending. Now for the ‘But.’”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/26/science/earth/26ozone.html]], DR. H)</span>

__That the hole in Earth’s … Antarctic atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the scientists write.</span>


**Global warming will cause extinction – scientific consensus that it’s real and anthropogenic.**
**Morgan 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect, SIIICK FORMATTINGGGGGGGGG BY DILLON OMG]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As horrifying as the scenario …</span>____against our chances of survival?__
==DoD Tradeoff DA== 

**The Coast Guard has to do the plan**
**Frittelli 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John F. Frittelli, Specialist in Transportation, Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress” CRS Report for Congress, 5-27-2005, Online [HT])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coast Guard. </span>__The Coast Guard …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and harbors from subversive acts. </span>


**No Link—Coast Guard is part of the Department of Homeland Security**
**The DoD** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">accessed on 11/28/2011, frequently updated website (“DoD 101: An Introductory Overview of the Department of Defense.”, [[http://www.defense.gov/about/dod101.aspx]], DR. H)</span>

__The U.S. Coast Guard provides__ law … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">drugs from flooding American communities.</span>


**DHS will not cooperate with DoD**
**Bowman 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division (Steve Bowman, May 14, 2003, “Homeland Security: The Department of Defense’s Role”, [[http://www.fas.org/man/crs/RL31615.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In response to the … the new NORTHCOM </span>__are scarce.__

==Heidegger DA== 

**Their critique devalues life; rejecting technological thought also rejects technological innovation and dooms us to extinction. This also defends our ontology**
<span class="cite">Heaberlin, 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– nuclear engineer, led the Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (Scott, A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity, p. 31-40)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Well, then let's not do … </span>make a better life for everyone.

==Mil DA== 

**Plan sparks Global Cooperation among Space faring Nations**
**Earles 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of CANEUS, Canada-Europe-USA-Asia: development of micro-nano-technologies for future aerospace applications (Marion “Rick” Earles,“AIS and Data Extraction Backbone”, [[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That </span><span class="Underline">space will be … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">subsequent articles in this series. </span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">Perception links have been triggered – X-37B proves</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">TimesLive 10 —</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> (The Times Live, Citing Anatoly Kornukov, “ Russian fury at US unmanned spacecraft,” April 23,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.timeslive.co.za/scitech/2010/04/23/russian-fury-at-us-unmanned-spacecraft</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> DR. H)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Former</span> __<span style="color: #222222;">Russian</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> air force</span> __<span style="color: #222222;">commander</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__of the weaponization____<span style="color: #222222;"> of space.</span>__

==<span style="color: #222222;">Radio Astronomy DA</span>== 

**No Link—we’re in GEO that resolves the link**
**Singh 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1ac author)</span> **–**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Naval School Postgraduate, Captain of Indian Navy (Jaswinder Singh, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism In Territorial Sea”, December 2010, [[http://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=10996]], DR. H)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The horizon range thus depends … </span>**__therefore could be a viable option.__**
==<span style="color: #222222;">China Relations DA</span>== 


**Non Unique—The Coast Guard contracted a bid for AIS satellites last year**

<span class="Underline">**Selding 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Staff Writer for Defense News and Space News (Peter Selding, March 25, 2011, “Neck & Neck Race To Be First in Tracking Ships From Space”, http://www.spacenews.com/satellite_telecom/110325-race-tracking-ships-space.html)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With International Maritime Organization regulations … -equipped satellites failed in orbit. </span>



<span class="Underline">**An Ice Age is coming – increased CO2 levels are key to solve and adaption prevents your impacts**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Marsh 08**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> physicist from the Argonne National Laboratory and a former consultant to the Department of Defense on strategic nuclear technology and policy in the Reagan, Bush, and Clinton Administration (Gerald Marsh, WinningGreen, 2008, “The Coming of a New Ice Age,” [[http://www.winningreen.com/site/epage/59549_621.htm]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contrary to the conventional wisdom … be only a will-o-the-wisp. </span>





**Plan sparks Global Cooperation among Space faring Nations**

**Earles 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of CANEUS, Canada-Europe-USA-Asia: development of micro-nano-technologies for future aerospace applications (Marion “Rick” Earles,“AIS and Data Extraction Backbone”, [[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]], DR. H)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That </span>space will be … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">subsequent articles in this series. </span>



<span class="Underline">**Heg turns China relations**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Layne 08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University (Christopher, Global Security Trends 2006, “China’s Challenge to US Hegemony”, [[http://acme.highpoint.edu/~msetzler/IR/IRreadingsbank/chinauscontain.ch08.6.pdf]], je)</span>



<span class="Underline">The Soviet Union’s collapse transformed … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">strategic choices than on Beijing’s</span>





**<span style="color: #222222;">Perception links have been triggered – X-37B proves</span>**

**<span style="color: #222222;">TimesLive 10 —</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> (The Times Live, Citing Anatoly Kornukov, “ Russian fury at US unmanned spacecraft,” April 23,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.timeslive.co.za/scitech/2010/04/23/russian-fury-at-us-unmanned-spacecraft</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> DRH)</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Former</span> __<span style="color: #222222;">Russian</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> air force</span> __<span style="color: #222222;">commander</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__of the weaponization____<span style="color: #222222;"> of</span>____<span style="color: #222222;"> space.</span>__



**Long timeframe means intervening actors and tech solve**

**Michaels 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Cato senior fellow (Patrick, 2/2, Live with Climate Change, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=7502)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consequently, </span>the best policy is … rewarded in the future, too



<span class="Underline">**Plan is perceived positively and sparks cooperation**</span>

**Navy 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(May 29, 2007, “Navy Maritime Domain Awareness Concept”, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/Navy_Maritime_Domain_Awareness_Concept_FINAL_2007.pdf]], DR. H)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Acquiring and </span>sharing maritime information<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">concept will not be prohibitive.</span>



**Sustainable agriculture being solved now—400,000 tons eliminated annually**

**Herman 6/21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2011 is a ClimateProgress contributing writer at Center for American Progress Action Fund who attended Stetson University and University of Oxford [[http://news.yourolivebranch.org/2011/06/21/re-imagining-agriculture-how-to-raise-yields-while-reducing-co2-emissions/|Re-Imagining Agriculture: How to Raise Yields While Reducing CO2 Emissions]] [[http://news.yourolivebranch.org/2011/06/21/re-imagining-agriculture-how-to-raise-yields-while-reducing-co2-emissions/]]</span>



__Companies are taking____a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n equally </span>__… CO2 would be eliminated annually.__



**High status quo CO2 emissions are key to agriculture and prevent extinction**

**IDSOS 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sherwood PhD and fmr research physicist for the Dept of Ag, Keith PhD Botany, Craig PhD Geography, “Food Security: The Real Planetary Problem,” CO2 Science, Volume 13, Number 51, [[http://www.co2science.org/articles/V13/N51/EDIT.php]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper recently published in … air every time we exhale.</span>