<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> The resolution asks what the U.S. //ought// to do...Hence the value: **governmental legitimacy**.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since ought is defined as a moral obligation, the affirmative has the burden of proving it is within moral parameters to afford due process rights to non-citizens. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1. Buchanan 1[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]explains that a legitimate government is one that:</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;"> (a) does a credible job...most basic human rights, </span>__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Wenar[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] defines negative rights:</span>




<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 16px;">**__The holder of a...__****__prototypical positive right__**.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">2. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">Buchanan</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">2 defines political power: </span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">The control exercised...</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">those in a special class</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8px;">.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">3. Buchanan</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">3 explains whom negative rights encompass: </span>
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">This definition of political power...</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 17.3333px;">under conditions of state breakdown.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">Knowles[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> explains:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**__While it is true that...__****__rights of the non-citizen__**. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">Cole explains[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">The Constitution does distinguish...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">rights to be so limited.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Hence the **standard** is ensuring the due process protections of all individuals the U.S. government wields power over. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The thesis of the affirmative: since the government wields power over non-citizens accused of terrorism, it holds an obligation to extend due process protections in order to guard inalienable rights, to uphold its political legitimacy. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">I contend, the government wields power over non-citizens accused of terrorism. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A. Wilson[[home#_ftn5|[5]]] explains:</span>


**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">The “public order” justifications...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">much-lauded criminal processes</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">B. Knowles 2:[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**__flexible [court] approaches...__****__unconstrained by our Constitution.__** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">Because the U.S. wields power over non-citizens accused of terrorism it must afford them Due Process protections to be a legitimate government. Thus, you affirm</span>

----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.3333px;">Political Legitimacy and Democracy by Allen Buchanan //Ethics// , Vol. 112, No. 4 (July 2002), pp. 689-719 Published by: </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ucpress|The University of Chicago Press]]</span>
[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.3333px;">Wenar, Leif, "Rights", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2011/entries/rights/>. </span>
[3]<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert Knowles (Acting Assistant Professor of Lawyering NYU School of Law) and Marc D Falkoff (Assistant Professor of Law, Northern Illinois University College of Law). “Toward a Limited-Government Theory of Extraterritorial Detention.” 2007. NYU Annual Survey of American Law. </span>
[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David Cole(teaches constitutional law, national security, and criminal justice at Georgetown University Law Center.) “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?” 2003. Georgetown University Law Center. </span>

[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Wilson, Richard J. "Can U.S. Courts Learn From Failed Terrorist Trials By Military Commission in Turkey and Peru?" //Thompson Reuters// 11th ser. 11.1 (2003): n. pag. //WestLawNext//. Web. 15 Aug. 2012.</span>

[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert Knowles (Acting Assistant Professor of Lawyering NYU School of Law) and Marc D Falkoff (Assistant Professor of Law, Northern Illinois University College of Law). “Toward a Limited-Government Theory of Extraterritorial Detention.” 2007. NYU Annual Survey of American Law. </span>