=<span style="text-align: center;">__Afro-Pessimism 1AC__</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WE BEGIN OUR DISCUSSION WITH SOME FACTS ABOUT BLACKNESS. TO BE BLACK IS TO BE READY TO DIE THANKS TO PERSISTENT RACIAL AND STATE VIOLENCE AND THE NEGATION OF BLACK LIFE.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aime J. **__Ellis 2011__** (PhD in Comparative Politics UT-Austin, If We Must Die From Bigger Thomas to Biggie Smalls, Intro) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">From recklessly dangerous acts that … deaths, are ready to die.</span>__**


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BLACK POLITICAL ONTOLOGY IS ONE OF PERPETUAL WAR AND CONSTANT BOMBARDMENT VIA WHITE GAZE AND OTHER FORMS OF STRUCTURAL VIOLENCE. TO BE BLACK IS TO BE THE ZERO-POINT, THE PHOBIC OBJECT WHICH MUST BE DESTROYED BY THE WHITE HUMAN.</span>**</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wilderson 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Frank B, Professor of African-American Studies/Drama at UC Irvine, “The Vengeance of Vertigo: Aphasia and Abjection in the Political Trials of Black Insurgents”, (De) Fatalizing the Present and Creating Radical Alternative Journals Issue 5.0, C.A.) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; vertical-align: baseline;">Ritual murders which purge White … and affilial (or institutional) relations.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ANTI-BLACKNESS FUNCTIONS AS THE STRUCTURING LOGIC OF OPPRESSION. THOUGH OTHER RACIAL GROUPS ARE OPRRESED, BLACKNESS FUNCTIONS AS THE PRIME RACIAL SIGNIFIER. THUS, OUR INTERROGATION MUST ADRESS THE SPECIFICITY OF ANTI-BLACKNESS OR RISK FAILURE.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Copeland & Sexton 03 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">(Raw Life: An Introduction Jared Sexton and Huey Copeland Qui Parle, Volume 13, Number 2 (Spring/Summer 2003) published University of Nebraska Press Copeland; Ph.D., History of Art, University of California, Berkeley, 2006) is Director of Graduate Studies and Associate Professor of Art History with affiliations in the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies Sexton Director, African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, African American Studies School of Humanities Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Ethnic Studies) G.L</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is at this impasse ........e</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">ntails its status as metaphor.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">REQUIRING US TO ENGAGE IN A SPECIFIC POLITICAL PROJECT IN THE SERVICE OF THE HUMANIST PROJECT PRODUCES BLACK SOCIAL DEATH AND CROWDS OUT ANY POSSIBILITY FOR ARTICULATING BLACK POLITICS AND BLACK SUFFERING. OUR GOAL IS NOT TO BRING BLACK PEOPLE INTO THE DISCUSSION BUT INSTEAD TO BRING THE DISCUSSION TO BLACK PEOPLE.</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wilderson 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Frank B., Associate Professor of African American Studies and Drama at the University of California & former member of the Umkhonto we Sizwe, Red, White and Black: Cinema and the Structure of US Antagonisms, p. 141, C.A.]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As sites of political struggle … political capacity of the Black</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BLACK PEOPLE, SPECIFICALLY BLACK DEBATERS, MUST BE SUBJECTS BEFORE WE CAN ENGAGE IN ANY DEBATES ABOUT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE. THE BURDEN IS ON THE NEGATIVE TO PROVE THAT BLACK PEOPLE ARE SUBJECTS IN THIS DEBATE AND OF THIS DEBATE BEFORE WE CAN PROCEED. YES, THE NEGATIVE MUST PROVE THAT WE ARE HUMAN AS A PRIOR QUESTION TO ALL OTHER QUESTIONS AND DEBATES.</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wilderson 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Frank B., Associate Professor of African American Studies and Drama at the University of California & former member of the Umkhonto we Sizwe, Red, White and Black: Cinema and the Structure of US Antagonisms, p. 10, C.A.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">I have little interest in … Columbia University awaits an answer.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WE PLACE BLACK SUFFERING AT THE CENTER OF THE DEBATE. OUR DEMAND FOR GRATUITOUS FREEDOM HIGHLIGHTS THE INABILITY FOR CURRENT POLITICAL DEBATES TO ACCOUNT FOR THE BLACK POSITIONALITY. IGNORING BLACK SUFFERING ITSELF IS THE FOUNDATION OF PRESENT ANTI-BLACKNESS.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wilderson 5</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Frank, Professor at the University of California, Irvine, “Gramsci’s Black Marx: Whither the Slave in Civil Society?”, We write, Vol. 2, 1]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The value of reintroducing the … the seeds of anti-Blackness</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">IN CONCLUSION, WE ASK THE JUDGE TO AFFIRM THE NEGATION OF THE STATUS QUO. TO AFFIRM THE SOCIAL LIFE OF BLACK SOCIAL DEATH. AN ABSOLUTE AFFIRMATION OF NEGATION IS THE ONLY ETHICAL OPTION IN THIS DEBATE</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sexton 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Jared, Professor at the University of California, Irvine, “ANTE-ANTI-BLACKNESS: AFTERTHOUGHTS”, C.A.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, before we adjudicate whether … dependent upon what it polices.</span>

=Harvard Elims - Pa'Lante 1AC= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Subjectivity has to be questioned. Sites of knowledge production are key to establishing identity and re-territorializing spaces </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">J Rodriguez 03 </span>**(<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Juana Maria Rodriguez, Associate professor of Gender and Women’s studies at UC Berkley and has a PhD in Ethnic Studies, Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces (Sexual Cultures), pg. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">05 & 06</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, G.L.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Identity is about.......and whose interest does it serve?</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As we have been explaining, this is the same liquidation of culture that has been in perpetuation since the birth of America. This has always been its pedagogical mission. Gentrification and assimilation are just a means to an end - The end being a successful cultural and physical genocide.</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rodriguez 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dylan Rodriguez is associate professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Riverside. Suspended Apocalypse: White Supremacy, Genocide, and the Filipino Condition PG# 143-144 **G.L**)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The pedagogical mission.......succeeding social forms </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The methodology of the 1AC seeks to:</span>**

**<span style="color: #7030a0; font-size: 12pt;">-</span>****<span style="color: #7030a0; font-size: 14pt;">Establish self-determination and freedom for all oppressed people</span>**

**<span style="color: #7030a0; font-size: 14pt;">-Establish debate as a discursive classroom where we can establish identity thru the transportation of culture</span>**

**<span style="color: #7030a0; font-size: 14pt;">-Engage in Revolutionary Nationalism to disrupt the dominant-class cultural hegemony</span>**


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Latinidad articulates a decolonial discourse which challenges hegemonic constructions.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Santangelo 07</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Marta Caminero, Professor of English at the University of Kansas, “On Latinidad: U.S. Latino Literature and the Construction of Ethnicity”, pg. 161-162, **C.A.**)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As we have seen in the previous chapter......global capitalism, and so forth. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">REMEMBER OUR METHOD HAS PURPOSE. </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Polson</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Co-Director, teacher, and founder of ConneXions Community Leadership Academy</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, **__2k12__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">I think that the talented tenth..........a form of leadership training.</span>