[[toc]]
=1ACs= 
=SPACE= 
==DSCOVR== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**

__**Contention One is Solar Storms**__
**Initially note --- multiple solar flares are coming in the status quo – the Sun is reaching its most active phase**
**Moskowitz 8/11** [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span>]
Solar flares like the huge one that erupted on the sun ……. researchers said.

**The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable**
**Derbyshire 11** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]]]
The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' that could knock out communications satellites, ground aircraft and trigger blackouts - causing hundreds of billions of pounds of damage, scientists say. Astronomers today warned that mankind is now more vulnerable to a major solar storm than at any time in ….. the U.S. space agency said.

**The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve**
**Lautenbacher 10** [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]]]
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake and global warming, …. DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.

**ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us**
**CARV 5/18** [Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span>]
The Advanced Composition Explorer….. its NASA calculated life expectance.

**And, early warning is critical to prevent the storms worst impacts, and ACE is our best satellite now**
**Phillips 10** [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]]
Earth and space are ….. very seriously indeed."

**DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms**
**Clark 11** [Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”[[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]]
From that location, Earth science sensors on DSCOVR would have a constant view of the day side of the planet. But the L1 point is more commonly used by solar science missions, and it's an ideal location for a spacecraft to sniff out geomagnetic storms before they reach Earth. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would manage the DSCOVR mission as ….. work on the project in 2001.

**A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways**
**A. Blackouts**
**Butt 10** [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
For the reasons outlined …..and lengthy restoration times, and chronic shortages for multiple years are possible [25].

**They are key to the economy**
**Bryan 03** Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n
This worsened ….. indispensable in an information-age economy.

**B. It destroys satellites**
**OECD 11’** [OECD/ IFP Future project on “Future Global Shocks”, January 14th 2011, “Geomagnetic Storms”,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/25/46891645.pdf]]</span>]
One of the consequences with ……significant replacement challenge.

**Satellite malfunctions collapse the global economy**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.
Commercially, the economy of the …….Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …..debate and deserves more attention.

**__Contention Two is Operational Data__**
**Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change**
**Rogers and Gulledge 2010** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]]
Climate change will likely exacerbate ….. less well prepared to meet future challenges.

**And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data**
**Rogers and Gulledge 2010** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]]
Given the proliferation of new tools …..secu­rity professionals need to ask.

**Climate change causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve**
**Tussing 2008** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]]
The impetus behind these efforts on the ….. are taking shape in every theater.

**Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action**
**Tussing 2008** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]]
In emulation of the American effort….. solely in the camp of the civil authorities.

**Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars**
**Smith 2007** [Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, [[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]]]
Deployment …. engage military forces in a reactive manner.

**Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war**
**Deutsch ’02** [Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]
The Rabid Tiger …… feel compelled to follow their client states.

**No offense – warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it**
**Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09** (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106,[[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]])
Over the 20th century, …. carbon dioxide reached.

**DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models**
**Williams 2008** [Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, [[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]]]
Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, rhyme nor reason, in solitary confinement in an air conditioned prison box somewhere outside Washington, DC. The ….. with giving environmentalism a great boost in the 1970s.

**That solves any gaps in status quo capabilities – DSCOVR’s position makes it key**
**Wiscombe and Herman 2002** [Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era
[[http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]]]
The L1 and L2 Lagrange points ….. gaps left by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

**The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system**
**Valero 2007**** [Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]</span>]
The L-1 and L-2 Earth-……. LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.

=LAST YEAR?= 
==Japan Navy== 

1ac University of Texas Longhorn Classic
Text: The United States federal government should end nearly all of its naval presence in Japan.

Advantage 1 is JAPAN
Rising public opposition in Japan to US naval presence is straining the relationship – a substantial reduction of presence is critical to lay the foundation for the future of the U.S./Japan alliance
Shorrock 10-4-2010 (http://www.ipsnewsasia.net/bridgesfromasia/node/21, “Public Pressure to Shape US Military presence in Region)
A combination of public opposition….sure Japan should take on a military role."

And – U.S. Naval presence is a particularly volatile issue
McCurry 6 (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, __http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan__)DR
The decision to hand the sailor…..to the streets in protest.

And – Japanese public opposition matters – the formation of new Japanese foreign policy guarantees that public opposition will translate into action
Mereand 9 (Richard, National Security Analyst with the Association with the United States Army’s (AUSA’s) Institute of Land Warfare, 12-29-09, The Evolution of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, __http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf__)DR
The Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) ….. can strongly assert Japan’s will.”3

And – the U.S./Japan alliance is unsustainable as long as the Japanese people see their country as a base for U.S. adventurism, the plan is key
Blumenthal No Date (Dan, Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, No Date Given, The Revival of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance, __http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027__)DR
However, the United States cannot take …..support for Tokyo's independent strategic concerns.

And – These political tensions jeopardize the effectiveness of the alliance.
Kyodo News International 9-16-2010 (http://newsystocks.com/news/3697375, “FOCUS, Progress in US-Japan Relations hinge on Kan’s leadership”)
Naoto Kan's victory in Tuesday's presidential …..whether it's diplomacy or otherwise.'


And – This makes cooperation over a litany of issues impossible
The Atlantic Council of the United States 2002 (http://www.rips.or.jp/english/publications/special_reports/pdf/new_frontiers.pdf, “ New Frontiers for US-Japan Security Relations”)
Reducing Friction in the Alliance. Three problem ….. in the absence of such a relationship.

And –relations are key to Asian stability – prevents multiple nuclear conflicts throughout Asia
INSS 2k (Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University, The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)
Major war in Europe is inconceivable for ….. redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties.
Advantage 2 is GREAT POWER CONFLICT

US naval presence in Japan will escalate into great power conflicts with China and Russia
Rozoff 11-4 (Rick, author and geopolitical analyst, 11-4-10, Washington-Tokyo Axis: U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21769)DR
In a six-day span the U.S. State Department has ….. 1950s, though now in an Asia with several nuclear powers.

We’ll isolate two scenarios:

First US-China War

Specifically, the development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China.
Yoshihara ‘10 (Dr. Toshi, Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html)
In recent years, defense analysts in the …..militarily, against Beijing's emerging missile strategy.

That causes Extinction.
Straits Times, 2000 (June 25)
Conflict on such a scale would embroil ….. would see the destruction of civilisation.

And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.
Shambaugh, 5 (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)
Some observers in the United States, however, ….. considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.

Scenario Two – RUSSIA
Sour US-Russian relations embolden Syria
Ghattas, 08 (Sam F. Ghattas. “Syria takes advantage of Russia-U.S. tensions; Iran may be next” Associated Press, Aug 26, 2008, http://www.startribune.com/templates/Print_This_Story?sid=27439334)
Syria's President Bashar Assad has publicly stepped ….. harder against Israel and the U.S."

This opportunity translates into Syrian Iskander Missiles, evoking aggression and making war inevitable with Israel
Kass, 05 (Lee- analyst in the research and analysis division of Science Applications International Corporation; “Syria after Lebanon: The Growing Syrian Missile Threat” Middle East Quarterly. Fall 2005. http://www.meforum.org/article/755)
The Syrian regime's efforts to upgrade ….. and its ability to wage a future war

Syrian missile strike snowballs to nuclear Armageddon
Strategic Analysis, 2k [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html]
The Syrian chemical arsenal ….. be ripe for a nuclear Armageddon

==South Korea Navy== 

__**GDS Version**__

Plan: The United States federal government should terminate the presence of its navy in the Republic of Korea.

Advantage 1 is Jeju Island:

The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats

The Times Record, 10 (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,__http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt__)

I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to …on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.


And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem

Jeju Weekly, 9 (November 26, __http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426__)

Some of Jeju’s treasures areclearly visible, …. It is not just imperativefor environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.


And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest

Red Orbit, 10 (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,__http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/__)

Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."


And – Extinction

Craig, 3(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)

Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.


Advantage two: China

Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.

Rozoff, 8/16/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review,__http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html__)

Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating …The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.


And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.

Reuters, 8/13/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, __http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews__)

A senior Chinese military strategist called planned U.S. naval … can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.


And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.

Yi, 8/13/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, __http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp__)

The recent decision by the United States to involve its … if the two powers really want to avoid confrontation.

And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.

Eland, 5 (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494)

Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophicwar or even a nuclear conflagration.


And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.

Straits Times, 2k(June 25)

Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and ….we would see the destruction of civilisation.


And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict

Reuters, 8/17/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, __http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817__)

The game of military bluff that China and the United States … the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.


And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia

Conable and Lampton, 93(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)

Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.


And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.

Dibb, 1 (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)

The areas of maximum danger and … Forum have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.


And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.

Sayers, 10 (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, __http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html__)

The PLA believes America's ability to project power is … observed almost a decade ago, deterrence alone cannot suffice as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.7


And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.

Shambaugh, 5 (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)

Some observers in the United States, however, see China’s Asian … These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.

__**Blue Key - New Jeju Advantage**__

The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats

The Times Record, 10 (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt)
I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to … on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.



And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem
Jeju Weekly, 9 (November 26, http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426)
Some of Jeju’s treasures are clearly visible, …. It is not just imperative for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.


And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest
Red Orbit, 10 (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/)
Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and … who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."

And – Extinction
Craig, 3 (Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for … wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.

And – The Jeju base will trigger an uncontrollable naval arms race throughout the Asia-Pacific region ensuring conflict.
Cha 10 (Kyoungeun, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”,http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia)
The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of … could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region.

And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations.
Strait Times 9 (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3)
A naval arms race that could have …, he warned: "The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents and incidents at sea."

And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.
Dibb, 1 (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)
The areas of maximum danger and … have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.

And – A Jeju naval base would collapse peace on the Korean Peninsula.
UNCPD 7 (United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, May 22, “The establishment of a naval base in Jeju would lead to the militarization on Jeju Island”, http://blog.peoplepower21.org/English/19790)
Our concerns that the establishment … of Jeju will help make the residents' lives and furthermore the Korea Peninsula better.

And – This will destroy the planet
Africa News, 99 (“Third World War: Watch the Koreas”, October 25, Lexis)
If there is one place today … normalising relations with North Korea.

=2ac Stuff= 

==Japan Navy 2ac Stuff== 

===__**2ac - Case**__=== 

**__Great Power Wars__**

**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable**
**Ghani 8-29** (Rizwan, author for the Pakistan Observer, 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)DR

Following American Navy’s joint …. to China’s naval power.


**US maritime hegemony has failed.**
**Asia News 9-24** (Asia News, Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas, 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas , http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR

Milan - The recent conflict between …. and the beginning of the Chinese?


**Deterrence fails in the context of China – modernization.**
**Global Times 6-8** (global Times, 6-8-10, Carrier Casts a Shadow over Northeast Asia,
Asahi Shimbun 6-21 (Asahi Shimbun, Chinese news station, China Seeks to Neutralize Japan-U.S. Treaty, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201006200174.html)DR

A rapid buildup of nuclear …. gone cold on the idea.



**The US would lose a war vs. China**
**Yoshihara 10** (Toshi, associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, Summer 2010, Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing, http://www.andrewerickson.com/2010/05/chinese-missile-strategy-and-the-u-s-naval-presence-in-japan-the-operational-view-from-beijing/)DR

In recent years, defense analysts …. missile campaign.

===__**2ac - Add-ons**__=== 

__Rape__

**Naval presence at Yokosuka fuels rape and public opposition**
**McCurry 6** (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan)DR

The decision to hand the ….on to the streets in protest.

**Militarized rape is grounded in dichotomies of victory and defeat – D-rule**
**ENLOE 00** (Chloe, “Maneuvers: The International Politics of Militarizing Women's Lives,” 2000, p111) SLV

There are as many different …. institutions of organized violence.

==South Korea Navy 2ac Stuff== 

===__**2ac - Case**__=== 

__China__

**Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict.**
**Reuters, 8/17/2010** (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”,http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817)

The game of military bluff ….Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.

**US will not retain preeminent naval dominance forever.**
**AFP 9** (AFP, Associated Press, 3-22-10, China tells Japan it wants Aircraft Carrier,__http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw__)DR

BEIJING (AFP) — China will not remain …. patrol boat to the region.

**The only thing that naval presence deters is good relations with China.**
**AFP 9-1** (Associated Foreign Press, 9-1-10, China Launches War Games in Yellow Sea, http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/china-launches-war-games-in-yellow-sea-20100901-14mxv.html)DR

China has launched live…. Korea's closest ally and trade partner.


**Sending a U.S. aircraft carrier to the Yellow Sea would uniquely trigger conflict**
**Hawkins, 2010** (William R., Consultant Specializing in International Economic and National Security Issues, Former Economics Professor and Former Congressional Staff Member, Family Security Matters, July 27,http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.6857/pub_detail.asp)

To claim and defend ….decisions about where to deploy its forces.

**Beijing condemns US Navy presence – heightens tensions and causes retaliation**
**Washington Times 8-30** (Washington Times, leading American reporting station, 8-30-10, China to Conduct Live-Ammo Drills in Yellow Sea,http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/29/china-to-conduct-live-ammo-drills-in-yellow-sea/)DR
BEIJING | China said on Sunday its navy will ….harms me, I must harm them."

**Deployment of the USS George Washington to the Yellow Sea would be seen as particularly aggressive – it’s the key internal link**
**People Forum, 8/6/2010** (http://www.peopleforum.cn/viewthread.php?tid=22015)
As tensions escalate on the Korean ….will definitely irk Beijing.

**Aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea is key – it would put Beijing in striking distance**
**Associated Press, 2010** (August 5, http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html)
Nothing projects U.S. global ….range of U.S. F-18 warplanes.

**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable**
**Ghani 8-29** (Rizwan, author for the Pakistan Observer, 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)DR
Following American Navy’s ….add to China’s naval power.

**US maritime hegemony has failed.**
**Asia News 9-24** (Asia News, Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas, 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas ,http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR
Milan - The recent conflict ….and the beginning of the Chinese?

**US-China relations threatened by negative campaign politics**
**Zeliff 10/24** (Bill, former congressman for the 1st Congressional District, US-China relationship threatened by negative campaign politics, 10/24/10, accessed 10/24/10, http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinionperspectives/889287-263/us-china-relationship-threatened-by-negative-campaign-politics.html)
Political campaigns bring ….of the U.S.-China relationship.

__**A2: China War Good**__

**Turn: Chinese space technologies undermine U.S. hegemony – disrupts balance of power in East Asia and causes Chinese development of ASATs.**
**Murray and Antonellis ’03 (William Murray, analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, Robert Antonellis, analyst with the U.S. government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)**

**In the near future, the also intends….military forces that depend upon it., 21**

**Ground troops are comparatively more important -**
**Kim 99—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles)**
**Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario….could harm U.S.-China relations.**

**__Jeju__**

**Loss of marine biodiversity leads to extinction**
**Davidson,** founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist, **2003**
(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51)
But surely the Athenians had it ….and just twelve on land.

===**2ac - Add-Ons**=== 

**__North Korea__**

**Joint naval exercises involving an aircraft carrier cause North Korea to retaliate with nuclear weapons**
**Yu, 2010 (**Quincy, Staff Writer for the Epoch Times, Tensions Rise as Largest US-South Korea Military exercise Kicks Off, Epoch Times, July 26, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/39879/)

The drill is also the first to …. that its aggressive behavior must stop.”


**And – Even limited nuclear use by North Korea guarantees extinction.**
**Hayes and Hamel-Green, 2010 (**Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for security and Sustainable Development, Michael, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education, and Human Development at Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report 10-001, January 5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The international community is increasingly ….priority consideration from the international community.

===__**2ac - CPs**__=== 

__Consult Russia__

**Nonbinding consultation solves best.**
**Daily Oklahoman, 01**
**WITH his arrival in Spain….ruffling some feathers along the way.**

**Russia will say no- will join US naval exercises to deter North Korea**
**Reuters, 10,news agency, 5/27/2010, “Russia plans big naval exercise off North Korea”,http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE64Q3KI20100527**

**Russia will hold large-scale….adequate by the international community."**


**__Consult Nato__**

**NATO will say no- wants US navy participation in annual Russia-NATO drills in the Sea of Japan**
**RIA Novosti, 08, national-level Russian News Agency, 7/23/08, “Russia to Host FRUKUS-2008 International Naval Exercises”, http://en.rian.ru/russia/20080723/114741533.html**

**Russian, U.S., U.K., and French ….destroyer from Russia's Northern Fleet.**

**NATO says no- trying to contain China**
**Chang, 08, Andrei, editor in chief of Kanwa Defense Review Monthly, 8/08/2008, “NATO Keeps Eye on China”, http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2008/02/08/Analysis-NATO-keeps-eye-on-China/UPI-29441202506036/**

**NATO is closely watching China's ….n articles published by the Chinese media.**

**__Consult South Korea__**

**South Korea will say no- wants US naval commitment**
**Harden, 09, Blaine, writer for The Washington Post Foreign Service, 6/16/2009, “S. Korea Seeks Assurances From U.S. of Nuclear Shield”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/06/15/AR2009061500944.html**

**As state media in North Korea continued to ….South Korea on imports of U.S. beef.**

**South Korea will say no- more naval exercises coming up**
**Garamone, 8/19, Jim, writer for American Forces Press Services, 8/19/2010, “US, South Korea Announce Yellow Sea Exercise”, http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=55421**

**The United States and South Korea ….stability on the Korean peninsula."**

**South Korea will say no- naval exercises will continue for months**
**Whitlock, 7/19, Craig, reporter for The Washington Post, 7/19/2010, “U.S., South Korea prepare for naval exercises”, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/checkpoint-washington/2010/07/us_south_korea_prepare_for_nav.html**

**After weeks of feints and indecision, the USS George Washington….Tuesday with South Korean Defense Minister Kim Tae-Young.**

__**Consult China - Minor Mod DA**__

**Giving China influence on US policy would lead to repeal of new sanctions on North Korea- they hate them**
**Ryall and Hutchinson, 7/21, Julian and Peter, reporters for The Telegraph, 7/21/2010, “US sanctions against North Korea provoke Chinese anger”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/7902684/US-sanctions-against-North-Korea-provoke-Chinese-anger.html**

**The United States announced new sanctions….signed at the end of their three-year conflict.**


**New sanctions on North Korea key to prevent North Korean prolif**
**Lam and Bruce, 8/31, Sen and Scott, director of US operations at the Nautilus Institute, done by interview on Radio Australia, 8/31/2010, “New US sanctions on North Korea”, http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/asiapac/stories/201008/s2998852.htm**

**US president Barack Obama has ordered new financial …. across the border, severely destabilising China.**


**North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war triggers horrific impacts**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**

**The international community is increasingly …. the international community.**

===**2ac - DAs**=== 

__**South Korea Prolif**__

**South Korea won’t go nuclear- public opposition.**
**Yi ‘9 (Kiho, Dir. Nautilus Institute of Seoul and Prof. – Hanshin U., The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The North Korean nuclear test: The South Korean reaction,” 6-5, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-north-korean-nuclear-test-the-south-korean-reaction)**
**But back to the domestic response in South Korea. ….. to a practical process of denuclearization and disarmament on the Korean Peninsula.**


**Plan won’t lead to rearm- we would still have troops near the border to serve as a deterrent against land invasion**
**Adams ‘5 (Karen Ruth, Associate Prof. IR – U. Montana, and PhD Pol Sci. – UC Berkeley, “New Great Powers: Who Will They Be, and How Will They Rise?”, http://www.cas.umt.edu/polsci/faculty/adams/greatpower.pdf, p. 11)**
**Extended deterrence can be ….. effective as deployments of 500,000.42**


**South Korea views ground troops as key to deterrence because of the direct defense they provide against a DPRK invasion- withdrawal of naval forces is irrelevant to credibility**
**Payne et al ’10 (Keith, Pres. – National Institute for Public Policy, Prof. and Dept. Head of Graduate Defense and Strategic Studies – Mo. St. U., Chair – Policy Panel of theh US Strategic Command’s Senior Advisory Group, Thomas Scheber, VP – National Institute for Public Policy and former Dir. Strike Policy and Integration – Office of the Sec. Def., and Kurt Guthe, Dir. Strategic Studies – NIPP and former Deputy assistant Sec. Def. for Forces Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia”,http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf, p. 11-13)**

**The forward presence of U.S. ….. the U.S. commitment to the defense of the ROK**

**Not enough plutonium, economic disincentives – at worst, long-timeframe**
**Hughes 7 - Senior Research Fellow and Deputy Director at the CSGR and teaches the course on the International Relations of Pacific Asia in PAIS (January 2007, Christopher, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan”, Asia Policy #3, http://www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/policy-forums-online/security/copy_of_07021Hughes.pdf) MGM**
**Finally, despite having made impressive …. were to seek nuclear weapons.**