=1AC= 
==Biotech Advantage== 
**United States biotech innovation is rapidly declining – the industry has picked all the low hanging fruit, and no new innovations are in the pipeline**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Kircher, 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">[Manfred. Executor of the Cluster Industrielle Biotechnologie. “</span><span style="color: #221e1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Pharmaceutical Industry Needs More Innovation in Bioprocesses.” Future Medical Chemistry 3(14). http://www.future-science.com/doi/pdf/10.4155/fmc.11.124]</span>
__Despite increasing R&D efforts, the new …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">will not balance the loss.</span>

**Bioterror is inevitable, possible, probable and worse than nuclear war—advances in biotech key to solve**
**Maurer 7**
[[http://violet.berkeley.edu/%7Egspp/iths/maurercv.htm|Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. ]]Director of the [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/index.html|Goldman School Project]] at the [[http://www.berkeley.edu/|University of California, Berkeley]] on [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/academics/affiliates/maurer.html|Information Technology and Homeland Security]] Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007
__The new realities of terrorism__ … __organisms. **Time is running out.**__


**Independently, disease spread causes extinction**
**Yu 9.** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Victoria, 5/22/09, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate.” Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science. [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Citing the CDC and R. Calsbeek, a lecturer at Dartmouth</span>
A pandemic will kill off … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>

==Scientific Diplomacy Advantage== 
**United States is key to overall scientific diplomacy efforts – viewed as the powerhouse in expertise**
**Turekian, 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Vaugh. Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Dr. Vaughan Turekian began his … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">be obtainable through foreign cooperation</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**Try-or-die – extinction is inevitable without scientific exchange – and it’s key to solving all other impacts**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sackett, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]</span>]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Imagine for a moment that the globe ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">have recognised the value of science diplomacy.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter – it also solves ocean acidification, and nuclear escalation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Royal Society, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Over the next thirty years</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, foreign ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">MP-Scientist Pairing Scheme has been running since 2001. </span>


**Ocean acidification causes mass extinction – empirically proven**

**Boswell, 11**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Randy. Staff Writer for the Vancouver Sun. “Mass extinction due to high ocean acidity: Canadian-led team solves biggest mystery in Earth history.” http://www.vancouversun.com/business/technology/Mass+extinction+high+ocean+acidity+study/5377124/story.html. September 9.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A Canadian-led team of … dinosaur age 65 million years ago.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Second is Russia</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Science diplomacy is key to Russian cooperation on BMD – leads to joint control </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lowenthal, 11</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Micah. Senior Program Officer Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board National Research Council of the National Academies “Science Diplomacy for Nuclear Security.” United States Institute for Peace. http://www.usip.org/files/resources/SR_288.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. president Ronald Reagan was willing ...</span>
__the political problem of joint control__.



**Joint control now is key – BMD expansion is occurring and inevitable – the plan reassures Russia before it's too late**

**Futter, 10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew. doctoral candidate at the University of Birmingham, U.K., and a current fellow at the Council for a Livable World in Washington, D.C. “US Must Prioritize BMD Cooperation With Russia.” World Politics Review. http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5951/u-s-must-prioritize-bmd-cooperation-with-russia]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Having reached an agreement on the ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nuclear cuts, not to mention global zero.</span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Cooperation key to check arms race**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Rogozin, 11**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Dmitry. //Russia’s ambassador to NATO and the special envoy of the president of Russia for interaction with NATO in anti-missile defense.// //“Missile Defense: As Friends or Foes?” The New York Times Opinion Pages. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/08/opinion/08iht-edrogozin08.html]//</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __Missile weapons and technologies ...__</span>
__suspicion and a new European arms race.__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Leads to accidents, miscalculation, and nuclear exchange**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Martin 8**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> [Matt. Program officer in Policy Analysis and Dialogue at the Stanley Foundation, has held positions with the British American Security Information Council, the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, the Henry L. Stimson Center, and Amnesty International, USA “Avoiding an Accidental Nuclear War.” The Stanley Foundation. July. http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?ID=498]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">While no one believes that the chance...</span>
__to a perceived threat more likely.__



**Extinction**



**Bostrom, 2**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Nick </span><span class="Heading4Char" style="font-size: 6pt;">Bostrom</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, </span><span class="Heading4Char" style="font-size: 6pt;">2002</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">risks that we will encounter in the 21st century. </span>









==Solvency== 
**The plan solves biotech for a few reasons:**

**First is space bioprocessing research**

**Space microgravity and cell production research leads to revolutions in bioprocessing, specifically vaccine production** 
**Clement and Bukley, 6**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Often praised as</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">the most promising field fo</span>____r__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">c</span>____<span style="background-color: yellow;">ommercial</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">exploitation of </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">s</span>____<span style="background-color: yellow;">pace</span>____, this domain__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">today </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">has two</span>__ __primary fundamental aspects: the use of microgravity as a tool for separation processes__ and techniques (including protein crystals growth),__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> and the production of cells for medically valuable proteins</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">like immuno-reactive molecules, hormones, enzymes, and vaccines. Results of space experiments and their terrestrial applications are presented, and their advantages and disadvantages compared to Earth-based techniques, such as genetic engineering, are discussed. Biotechnology is an applied multidisciplinary research that includes biological science, engineering, and biochemistry to provide biomolecules, cells, tissues, and other bioproducts to enhance human health and welfare. As demonstrated in the previous chapters, </span>__microgravity offers a unique environment for research on the growth of cells, tissues, and biological materials__.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Space biotechnology focuses in two areas: cell culture and protein crystal growth. The cell culture work is a basic research that contributes to understanding how microgravity affects the fundamental behavior of cells, particularly in relation to tissue formation on living organisms. </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The protein crystal growth work uses microgravity to produce higher quality biological macromolecular crystals</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">for structure determination </span>__and__ for__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> improving that process in terrestrial laboratories.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The culture of cells in </span>__microgravity opens up opportunities to develop new understanding of the way macromolecules function,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">cells respond to their environment, and tissues form</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">via tissue engineering studies.</span> __Such understanding can open new strategies for probing disease processes, developing medical countermeasure for space travel, and advance our knowledge of cellular processes.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">More specifically, </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">t__he research focuses on: (a) the engineering of tissue for__</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">research, transplantation, and </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">biopharmaceutical production; (b) the production or tissues for disease modeling</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">such as cancer; (c) </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the vaccine production</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">through propagation of microorganisms; (d) tissue engineering and </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">b__ioreactor design; and__</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(e) studies on</span> __changes in gene expression__. __The__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">research also has implications for ground-based systems, as perturbations of biological systems by microgravity can provide insight into physiological control in the absence of mechanical forces and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the absence of convection. </span>__This work could give scientists insight into how cellular processes respond to mechanical and chemical manipulation,__ eventually__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> allowing them to design more efficient bioprocesses and to develop a new generation of high-resolution biosensors.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, the program also allows investigators to compare various tissue culturing techniques to determine which of them produce systems that most effectively mimic the characteristics of genuine tissue.</span>


**Second, the tech spills over – causes total industry innovation**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>
__The space program is one of the most well-known sources of advanced technological research in the country.__ In the process of __researching__ and designing very __complex space systems, advances are made that have benefits outside the space program____.__ __The NASA [IPP]__ Innovative Partnerships Program __helps transition these advances into the private sector____, benefiting global competition and the economy.30 Research associated with__ the development of __the ISS, in particular, has contributed greatly__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to this phenomenon. For example, technology developed to recycle waste water on the ISS has led to the creation of a filtration system with the ability to purify water from the most challenging water sources. This could have important impacts in remote areas where well water is heavily contaminated by bacteria and it is already being used to purify the water supplies of hospitals in the developing world and dental practices in developed nations.31 Other technologies derived from work on the ISS include air purifiers, biosensors, and advanced fire alarms. ISS-inspired technology can be found in the most unlikely places: wireless sensors developed for the program can now be found monitoring the structural integrity of three tunnels in the Netherlands.32 The companies associated with these advances are often partnered with NASA as part of the agency’s Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. The success of small businesses is essential to innovation and growth in the economy. Moreover, although some of these companies are based in states such as Texas, Florida, and California, which are often associated with the space program, others reside in a wide variety of states, including New York, Oregon, Virginia, Montana, Pennsylvania, Arizona, Georgia, Connecticut, Michigan, Colorado, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Maryland, Nevada, and New Hampshire.33 </span>__The ISS has already proven to be an efficient engine for the creation of new, advanced technologies.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The longer the program continues, the greater the likelihood that even more technologies will be developed to benefit the United States, and people worldwide. </span>


**Third, the plan is key to demonstrating the commercial applications of space biotech – this leads to private sector research and investment**
**Clement and Bukley, 6**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In general, efforts to find commercial application from manned space activity have had limited success so far. Space activity is almost entirely dedicated to government missions, thus dominated by government procedures and funding. The ISS is usually justified by appealing to objectives other than its furtherance of commercial activity. These objectives include scientific research, national prestige, and establishing a platform for further exploration of the solar system. But surely the expenditure of more than $15 billion for the construction of the ISS should also yield commercial payoffs. As of today, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the most promising areas of opportunity for space commercialization include crystal growth and biomedical research</span>__ __efforts.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Biotechnology is the application of biological research techniques to the development and manufacture of products which improve human health, animal health, and agriculture. One important question is what role commercial users and industry might play in using the biotechnology research performed in microgravity? </span>__It is believed that commercial users of a macromolecular crystal growth facility on the ISS would come almost exclusively from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with perhaps an occasional user from a contract research organization or an instrument manufacturer. </span>__Worldwide there are currently more than 100 companies with research programs in macromolecular crystallography__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">These industrial organizations employ approximately 500 scientists and technicians with all levels of expertise in crystallography.</span> __Most are located in countries that already participate in development of the ISS.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">All of these companies employ crystallographers to aid in the design of biologically active molecules for use in human and animal health care or agriculture for the production of food and fiber. Industrial research programs in macromolecular crystallography fall within two broad categories. In structure-based drug design, the three-dimensional structure of a target macromolecule is determined to help in the design of a compound, most often a small molecule, which will bind tightly and selectively to the target, modifying its activity. In macromolecular engineering, the structure of a macromolecule is determined in order to guide research aimed at changing its structure. The goal is to alter its properties in some desirable way, with the final commercial product being the mutant macromolecule itself. In 2000, a study by the </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">N</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ational </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">R</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">esearch </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">C</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ouncil </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">revealed that, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">although many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies had participated in the microgravity crystallization research</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">, not one had yet committed substantial financial resources</span>__ __to the program. The study concluded that “this is likely to remain the case until the benefits of microgravity can be convincingly documented by basic researchers and until facilities in space can handle greatly increased numbers of samples in a much more user friendly manner”. In other words, “__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need a home run to get more interest in space commercialization</span>__”.__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In 1995, Dr. Albert Stacco, a professional crystallographer, flew on board the U.S. Microgravity (USML-2) Spacelab mission to complete an experiment on growing zeolite crystals (Figure 8-12). As such, he gained unique insights through serving as a scientist, astronaut, and commercial entrepreneur at the same time. The Zeolite Experiment was a success, yielding zeolite crystals that were superior to those grown on Earth (Figure 8-13). However, the eventual commercial outcome of the Zeolite Experiment was not as dependent on the quality as it was on the relative cost and availability of zeolites produced on Earth, and the business relationship of the sponsors of the program. At this point, the zeolites produced on Earth are of adequate quality for commercial uses, and their price and availability are better than those produced in microgravity. Furthermore, current oil industry cracking equipment is designed for the existing zeolites, and the industry would be faced with large costs to convert to the use of the ones produced in microgravity. However, several potential customers expressed that should the need arise for microgravity production, they would not hesitate to invest the money required to facilitate production in space. Dr. Sacco stated that commercialization in space should not be measured against the criteria used on Earth. On Earth, a company may have as many as 10,000 potential products in R&D, with experiments performed 24 hours a day. Of these 10,000, the vast majority will generally be canceled for one reason or another before reaching production and market. However, a vast number of experiments and samples will have been processed to bring the successful products to term. By comparison, space offers few opportunities to experiment (38 samples in the case of zeolites) and offers sporadic access to the “lab” as opposed to round-the-clock availability. There is also the problem of weighting commercial value against scientific value. This is not a necessary or even valid comparison. In fact, the majority of science ends up having some commercial value (National Research Council 2000). Another problem might come from the selection process of the candidate experiments for space bioprocessing. Space experiments are often selected based on judgments on which science will benefit from the microgravity environment. Because of a lack of good models in the area of bioprocessing, the peer review has often restricted the scope of science accepted for flight. This has probably resulted in missing the “wave” of new possibilities in discovery and potential market advantages for industry. Another important point is that the success of virtually any venture, business or science, depends on the staff. It is generally accepted that scientists are better at running experiments than non-scientists. No amount of instruction manuals, expert systems and communications can replace the “gut feel” and experience of a scientist. At present there are approximately 40 scientists with the training and qualifications to go into space. Dr. Sacco believes that the performance of ISS and Shuttle experiments would be greatly enhanced if there were always a scientist on the flight crew, or at the very least available as a visiting consultant during crew change-over on ISS (Richardson 1997). The burden of excessive paper work is unanimously criticized by the investigators involved in space research. Not only are the application processes complicated, they often need to be fully re-filed for each flight. To the uninitiated (or even the experienced) the flight application and certification process can be a minefield of inconsistencies, inter-Code battles, luck and unforeseen delays. None of these characteristics are attractive to business. Finally__,__</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">price and schedule remain</span>__ __two of the most important factors in determining the commercial viability of ISS and Shuttle. “__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fly early, fly often” is the basic request</span> __of any organization wishing to work in space__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is also a willingness to pay a “fair price” for the service, which can best be defined as either //marginal cost//, or //direct cost//. Marginal cost is the additional cost of flying an experiment on a particular mission. This is variable but, in the case of a flight which is due to be launched with room on the manifest, the marginal cost is approximately zero. The cost of launching additional weight is probably inconsequential in terms of overall fuel cost. The crew costs will be identical, and there is no opportunity cost. Direct cost is applicable to the cost of a dedicated flight</span>__. In this case the commercial interest would be that NASA does not apply fixed overhead to the flight__,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but only charges for expenses directly attributable to the flight. This would include fuel, boosters, turn-around, etc. This figure has not been accurately calculated, but it is estimated to be less than $100 million (National Research Council 2000). Scheduling is affected by the current hiatus due to ISS construction. When fully operational, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the ISS will offer ideal mission length</span>____, since a 28-90 day period is adequate for performing a meaningful series of experiments.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The greater the time spent in space, the more certain costs are spread, and the lower the per day rate, hence the lower the cost of individual experiments. So, </span>__the____<span style="background-color: yellow;"> I</span>____<span style="background-color: yellow;">SS should greatly improve prospects for successful and affordable biotechnology </span>____experiments.__






**And NASA shuttle launches key – international partners and commercial sector launches cause delays that lead to abandoning science research and can’t transport the necessary payloads**

**<span style="color: #141413;">GAO, 9</span>**

<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. http://www.gao.gov/ new.items/d109.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NASA faces several significant challenges ...</span>
__would only conduct minimal science experiments.__







**Plans to abandon ISS signal perception of failure and decline of scientific leadership—timeframe is 2015**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the U</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> S</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> allows </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">its leadership ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">States abandoning a National Laboratory to other nations.</span>



**This tanks US space leadership, science collaboration, and soft power – two internal links**



**First – reliability of science agreements**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> S</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">should continue ...</span>__
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">continuing the program but its fate is still uncertain</span>____.__

**And, that spills over into other science initiatives – ruins US image and removes a catalyst for collaboration**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reduced to the role of a bystander...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a great deal of importance in the ISS. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, abandoning the ISS ruins image of US science commitments with Russia – damages overall cooperation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Broniatowski et al 6</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[D. A. PhD Candidate in the EDAM, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration” International Space Exploration Update, from Center for Strategic and International Studies. http://web.mit.edu/adamross/www/BRONIATOWSKI_ISU07.pdf]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The ISS program, along with most ...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">large, because it would alienate a key ally</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s also reverse causal – increasing support for the ISS increases overall US-Russian scientific engagement</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Popov, 5</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[S.A. With the Keldysh Research Center. **“****Means and Methods of Overcoming Barriers in Cooperation: Mindset Gap as a Legacy of the Cold War and Cooperation in Exploration and Utilization of Cosmic Space.” National Academies Press. http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11302&page=86]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __The regulatory and legal environment ...__ </span>
__contacts are vital for its development.__ ‘’





**The International Space Station’s National Laboratory will be under-utilized due to lack of NASA support and launch assistance**
**<span style="color: #141413;">GAO, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. http://www.gao.gov/ new.items/d109.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The ISS has been continuously staffed ...</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">and • an uncertain future for the ISS beyond 2015. </span>__





=Plan Texts= 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its support for the International Space Station National Laboratory, including launch and utilization support for parties interested in research on the International Space Station.**