__<span style="font-size: 14.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Uniqueness </span>__
<span style="background: white; line-height: normal; mso-outline-level: 2;">**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Pentagon in No Rush for Engagement in Libya </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; line-height: 115%;">National Journal March 2nd ‘11 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">http://nationaljournal.com/nationalsecurity/pentagon-in-no-rush-for-engagement-in-libya-20110302</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The escalating crisis in Libya is sparking new calls for Western military intervention, with British officials discussing the creation of a no-fly zone and some American lawmakers urging the Obama administration to provide weaponry to the rebels working to overthrow Libyan strongman Muammar el-Qaddafi.But </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The push for aggressive action against Qaddafi’s regime is running into surprising opposition from the Pentagon, where senior military officials are urging policymakers to proceed cautiously and warning that any form of armed intervention into Libya could carry unforeseeable dangers and costs. The upshot is that anyone expecting the U.S. military to take action against Qaddafi in the days ahead is virtually certain to be disappointed. The Obama administration has been steadily escalating its financial and diplomatic pressure on the Libyan dictator, freezing tens of billions of dollars of his assets and joining its European allies in vocally demanding that he step down.</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Publicly, White House officials insist that “all options are on the table” when it comes to Libya, including military force. In practice, however, there are no signs that the administration is actually preparing for military action inside Libya. The administration’s go-slow approach has been evident in the limited amount of military assets that have been moved closer to Libya. Defense Secretary Robert Gates ordered a pair of American warships to the Mediterranean Sea on Tuesday, and announced that the U.S. would augment one of the vessels—the USS Kearsarge—with a new contingent of 400 Marines. The ships should arrive in the vicinity of Libya by Thursday. But Gates’ announcement was just as notable for what it left out. Military officials told //National Journal// that one of the most powerful seaborne.  </span></span>
<span style="background: white; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Link </span>__</span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 12.75pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Obama will interfere in Libya if troops are withdrawn from Afghanistan </span></span>**</span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Shimatzu ’11 </span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">New American Media </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://newamericamedia.org/2011/02/americas-next-war-looms-in-libya.php]] </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span class="updated"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">In what country have Americans fought more wars than in any other? The runners-up include the two wars in Iraq; a pair for Germany; Britain twice in the Revolution and 1812; and Cuba, a double-header if the covert Bay of Pigs operation is included. The invasions of Canada don't count since it was still a British colony. These worthy foes fall short by half. The U.S. Marine Corps ditty about the "shores of Tripoli" provides a clue. The answer was given away by Muammar Gadhafi in his defiant comeback speech on Feb. 22, accusing the U.S. of instigating the current rebellion against his regime. His head wrapped in a saffron turban, he gave a rousing, if rambling, account of surviving dozens of U.S. bombs that blasted his desert encampment, wounding him and killing more than 40 aides in 1986. The correct answer then is Libya, with four wars and counting. The two Barbary Wars of 1805 and 1815 were the first expeditionary campaigns for the newborn American republic. Storming across the Sahara in 1943, Gen. George Patton led the Allied attack on Rommel's Afrikacorps. Libya was then a colony of Mussolini Italy, one of the Axis powers. Later in 1986, President Ronald Reagan ordered air strikes against Gadhafi's tent in a near-miss assassination attempt</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 9pt;">. Now </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">a chorus</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">of human rights activists are calling for the U.S. military to impose a no-fly zone over Libyan airspace</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">, as was done over Kosovo during the NATO campaign to partition Yugoslavia in the late 1990s. In the Balkans case, the no-fly policy led to shoot-downs followed by an invasion of ground troops. Gadhafi's fiery pledge "to die as a martyr" is a signal that he is anticipating the Fifth American-Libyan War. President</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">[but]</span></span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Barack Obama, with ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq and his own record of civilian casualties, has so far not escalated beyond covert support for America's newfound allies </span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">among Islamic extremists and terrorists.  </span></span></span>
<span style="background: white; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Internal Link </span>__</span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">US Intervention Resurges Libyan Al-Qaeda, Empirically Proven  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">:</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">Klapper March 2nd ’11 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">[[http://www.deseretnews.com/article/700114795/US-reels-back-talk-of-intervention-in-Libya.html?pg=1]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">The Obama administration on Wednesday tried to rein in "loose talk" about military options in Libya, including a "no-fly zone" that the Pentagon chief said would first require attacking Moammar Gadhafi's government. At the same time, U.S. officials said the North African country risked descending into chaos. The idea of protective military flights over Libya has gained footing with some in the United States and Europe as a means to prevent Gadhafi from launching aerial attacks on rebels seeking his ouster. But Defense Secretary Robert Gates told lawmakers that a military operation would have to come before creation of a no-fly zone. "There is a lot of, frankly, loose talk about some of these military options," Gates said at a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing. "Let's just call a spade a spade: A no-fly zone begins with an attack on Libya to destroy the air defenses." He added that the operation would require more warplanes than are on a single U.S. aircraft carrier. "It is a big operation in a big country," he said. Gates said the Pentagon could get the job done if ordered by the president, but his message was unmistakable. With wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the military has no interest in getting bogged down in a third one, especially in another Muslim country. Across the Capitol, senators worked on an aid package to Arab countries to solidify democratic gains and improve relations with citizens in a part of the world accustomed to U.S. support for questionable rulers. Sen. John Kerry, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said at a hearing attended by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that "significant financial commitment by the U.S." was crucial to help what he called a "monumental and uplifting transformation" in the Mideast.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Clinton testified that the U.S. was "taking no options off the table so long as the Libyan government continues to turn its guns on its own people." She said the administration had grave concerns about the instability in the country,</span>** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">but she tempered her tone on a possible no-fly zone.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">"One of our biggest concerns is Libya descending into chaos and becoming a giant Somalia," Clinton said. She noted that many al-Qaida fighters in Afghanistan and Iraq came from eastern Libya, which rebels largely have freed from Gadhafi's control. Gates and Clinton spoke as the administration considered military options to force Gadhafi to halt violence that has killed an unknown number of civilians. </span>** </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">Eland ’03 </span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 7pt;">D</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.0pt;">irector of defense policy studies at the Cato Institute</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">If more emphasis were placed on exploring why terrorists launch attacks against the United States, innovative policy changes might be made that would reduce the number of such attacks and lower their cost--both in money and in lost lives. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">The Defense Science Board</span>__</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">'s Summer [[#notes_a]]Study Task Force on DoD Responses to Transnational Threats</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">notes a relationship between an activist American foreign policy and terrorism against the United States</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">:</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">As part of its global power position, the United States is called upon frequently to respond to international causes and deploy forces around the world. America's position in the world invites attack simply because of its presence. </span>[[#Historical]]**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">Historical data</span>__</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">shows a strong correlation between U.S. in-volvement in international situations and an in-crease in terrorist attacks against the United States</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">.</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;"> I</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">n an August 8, 1998, radio address justifying cruise missile attacks on Afghanistan and Sudan in response to terrorist bombings of two U.S. embassies, President Clinton admitted as much but put a positive spin on it with politi-cal hyperbole</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Impacts  </span>__</span>
<span style="background: white; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Reborn Libyan Al Qaeda Further Demonizes and Dehumanizes their Victims </span></span>**</span>
<span style="background: white; margin-top: 12.75pt; mso-line-height-alt: 12.75pt;"><span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.5pt;">Abou El Fadl</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.5pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">‘03</span>** </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Distinguished Fellow in Islamic Law at the UCLA School of Law</span>//</span> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">[[http://www.merip.org/mer/mer221/221_abu_el_fadl.html]] </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.0pt;">The extreme political violence we call terrorism is not a simple aberration unrelated to the political dynamics of a society. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13.5pt;">Terrorism is the quintessential crime of those who feel powerless seeking to undermine the perceived power of a targeted group. Like many crimes of power, terrorism is also a hate crime,</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 13.5pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">for it relies on a polarized rhetoric of belligerence toward a particular group that is demonized to the point of being denied any moral worth.</span>** </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.0pt;">To recruit and communicate effectively, this rhetoric of belligerence needs to tap into and exploit an already radicalized discourse with the expectation of resonating with the social and political frustrations of a people. If acts of terrorism find little resonance within a society, such acts and their ideological defenders are marginalized. But if these acts do find a degree of resonance, terrorism becomes incrementally more acute and severe, and its ideological justifications become progressively more radical.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 12.75pt; margin-top: 12.75pt;"><span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.0pt;">DEHUMANIZATION OUTWEIGHS NUCLEAR WAR</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">**Berube ’97** (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL:<span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: #22229c;">http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm</span></span>)</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">This means-ends dispute is at the core of Montagu and Matsou’s treatise on the __dehumanization of humanity__. They warn “its __destructive toll is already greater than that of any war, plague, famine, or natural calamity on record – and its potential danger to the quality of life and the fabric of civilized society is beyond calculation__. __For that reason this sickness of the soul might well be called the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse… Behind the genocide of the Holocaust lay a dehumanized thought; beneath the menecide of deviants and dissidents… in the cuckoo’s next of America, lies a dehumanized image of man__… (Montagu & Matsou, 1983, p. xi-xii). </span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 7.0pt;">While it may never be possible to quantify the impacts</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.0pt;"> __[When] dehumanizing ethics__ </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 7.0pt;">may have had on humanity, it is safe to conclude the foundations of humanness offer great opportunities which would be foregone. When we</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.0pt;"> __[are] calculate[d] the actual losses and the virtual benefits, we approach a nearly inestimable value greater than any tools which we can currently use to measure it.__</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.0pt;">Dehumanization is nuclear war, environmental apocalypse, and international genocide. When people become things, they become dispensable. When people are dispensable, any and every atrocity can be justified. Once justified, they seem to be inevitable for every epoch has evil and dehumanization is evil’s most powerful weapon.</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 9pt;">


</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>