<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[toc]]



</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Info</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Greg 1a/2n</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Steve 1n/2a</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">We will begin posting after day 1.</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="text-align: left;">1AC Asteroid Detection</span>== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 1 is Inherency**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]<span style="background-color: white;">)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs…the NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**No nation operates a space-based observatory. Empirical reactions to darker asteroids prove that status quo detection methods are doomed to fail.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NAS 10**. (National Academy of Science is comprised of the top scientists based on their individual work and achievements, no date, 2010, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” pdf document)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">No nation has had or currently operates a space-based…detected by ground-based telescopes.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**More funding needed for Space Based Observatories**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">**Vergano, 09**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Dan is a science reporter at USA Today, and has worked at the Medical Tribune. August 13, 2009, “Panel: NASA needs to do more to spot killer asteroids.” Lexis)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">NASA is falling well short in its goal…they aren’t going to see anything.”</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An extinction level asteroid literally just popped up and barely missed us – supercharges our arguments**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Underline">**IANS 3/19** (Indo-Asian News Service, 3-19-12, “Asteroid to Whiz Past Earth,” </span>http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2012-03-19/news/31210875_1_earth-whiz-orbit) GZ</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">PARIS: A newly-discovered asteroid, roughly…Jaime Nomen, one of its discoverers.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 2 is Large Asteroid Collision**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An asteroid strike is inevitable in the status quo. A collision causes a multiple scenarios for extinction and outweighs all nuclear war scenarios.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Sagan and Ostro 94** (Carl, Editor “Issues in Science and Technology”, and Steven, Editor, “Issues in Science and Technology” “Long-range consequences of interplanetary collisions.” 6/22/94 http://elibrary.bigchalk.com/elibweb/elib/do/document?set=search&dictionaryClick=&secondaryNav=&groupid=1&requestid=lib_standard&resultid=1&edition=&ts=5F4EDF6D6382539965B2AA9E564E5FF2_1310419971306&start=1&publicationId=&urn=urn%3Abigchalk%3AUS%3BBCLib%3Bdocument%3B28902300) Steven Canova</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 races towards its…many activities of our civilization, it is so cheap.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An asteroid impact will kill the planet. We control the internal link warming.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Underline">**Paine, 99** (Michael, writer for the Planetary Society,</span> “<span class="Underline">How an Asteroid Impact Causes Extinction” Space.com, 5/11/99, </span>[[http://idisk.mac.com/mpaineau-Public/rocks_from_space/asteroid_extinction.pdf]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">NASA scientists announce they have detected…this devastating sequence of events could happen.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Global warming will overheat the core of the earth causing the entire planet to explode**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Chalko ‘4** [Thomas Chalko(Abstract), PhD and professor of Geophysics at Mt Best in Australia, 10-30-2004 http://nujournal.net/core.pdf]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The heat generated inside our planet is predominantly of…comprehend the danger before situation becomes irreversible.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An asteroid impact outweighs nuclear war 15 billion times over. We control the most probable internal link to extinction.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Hawkes, no date**. (Bob is a member of the Meteorites and Impacts Advisory Commission, an advisory group to the Canadian Space Agency, no date given, “A comet or asteroid impact with the earth – how real is the threat?” [[http://miac.uqac.ca/MIAC/impactearth.htm]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">There is now widespread acceptance that the dinosaurs…(such as “solar sails”) are also possible.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Our impacts are probable and quick. You are more likely to die from an asteroid than any other natural disaster**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Rees, 2000,** (Professor Sir Martin, <span class="st">Professor of Cosmology and Astrophysics at the University of Cambridge</span> “The risk is real”, September 22, 2000, LexisNexis Academic)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A British Government task force this week…and can have some devastating consequences.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 3 is Small Asteroids**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The threat from small NEOs is real and immediate.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Norris 04</span>**. (Guy Norris is the award-winning West Coast editor for Flight International, cites an international group of scientists and engineers. March 30, 2004, “Deep impact; How serious a threat do near Earth objects pose, and what is being done to prevent the devastation that a collision w</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">ould inevitably cause?” lexis</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">On 18 March a mysterious object raced across…and could be used to “tag” them with transponders.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**A small asteroid collision would annihilate global crop yields and lead to worldwide famine killing billions.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Johnson 95**</span> (Lindley, NASA’s executive for both the Discovery Program of Solar System exploration missions, and the Near Earth Object Observations Program,“Preparing for Planetary Defense: Detection and Interception of Asteroids on Collision Course with Earth”, A Spacecast 2020 White Paper for the Air War College, 1995, http://csat.au.af.mil/2020/papers/app-r.pdf) [Iuliano]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But it doesn’t take a “planet buster” of 10 kilometers…more familiar with us (figure 6).</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Food shortages will cause unchecked disease.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Brown 09** (Lester R., American agricultural economist and writer. He is also the founder and president of the Worldwatch Institute. A strong advocate of sustainable agriculture, Brown has overseen numerous publications and has written as many on his own, “Could Food Shortages Bring Down Civilization?”, Scientific American, 4/22/09**,** </span>[[http://www.sovrn.com/PDF/articles_Could-Food-Shortages-Bring-Down-Civilization_.pdf]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**)** [Iuliano]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The biggest threat to global stability is the potential for…stability of global civilization itself.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Infections disease spread risks global extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Steinbruner 98** – Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[John D., “Biological weapons: A plague upon all houses,” //Foreign Policy//, Dec 22, LN]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">It is a considerable comfort and undoubtedly…security problem for the species as a whole.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Whether a small asteroid hits land or sea, it would destroy the ozone.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Hsu, 10.**</span> (Jeremy is a senior writer for LiveScience, a sister site to Life’s Little Mysteries. Oct 26, 2010 “Asteroid Strike Could Force Humans Into Twilight Existence,” http://www.livescience.com/8825-asteroid-strike-force-humans-twilight-existence.html,)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">An asteroid splashdown in one of Earth’s…and other possible chemical effects on the ozone.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, that equals extinction</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greenpeace ’95</span>**</span> [“Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer”, //A Greenpeace Report,// [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina…the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Destruction of the ozone leads to mass biodiversity loss**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**De Gruijl, 95**.</span> (Frank R. is a biophysicist involved in the study of ozone depletion and is on the committee of the United Nations Environment Programme. Summer 1995, “Impacts of a Projected Depletion of the Ozone Layer,” http://www.gcrio.org/CONSEQUENCES/summer95/impacts.html)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">All animals and plants and other organisms that are exposed…or the eggs of frogs in shallow water.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Biodiversity loss causes extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Science Daily 11</span>__</span> ("Biodiversity Key to Earth's Life-Support Functions in a CHanging World," Cites Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg, August 11, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm|www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The biological diversity of organisms on Earth…maintaining Earth’s life-support functions.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Recency of studies matter – err on the side of caution**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Science Daily 11</span>__</span> ("Biodiversity Critical for Maintaining Multiple 'Ecosystem Services'" Cites McGill University, August 19, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110819155422.htm|www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110819155422.htm]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">By combining data from 17 of the largest…could be a good precautionary approach.”</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 4 is Solvency**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Detection is key to deflection. We have the capability to prevent an asteroid impact but only if detected soon enough.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Underline">**Barbee and Nuth 09,** (Brent, M.S.E and III, Joesph, Ph.D, Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist, Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., Senior Scientist for Primitive Bodies, Solar System Exploration Division, NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, “Asteroid Impact Threats: Advancements in Asteroid Science to Enable Rapid and Effective Deflection Missions” Journal of Cosmology, October 31, 2009, </span>[[http://journalofcosmology.com/Extinction109.html]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">After the deflection spacecraft launches, it will require…precursor science mission to the asteroid.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**And, attempts to deflect asteroids are inevitable but only early warning can make that deflection successful**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NAS 10**. (National Academy of Science is comprised of the top scientists based on their individual work and achievements, no date, 2010, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” pdf document)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Unlike most other known natural hazards…of a clear and present threat.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**And, space-based observations are key. Ground-based telescopes can’t give us continuous measurements due to weather changes and poor night vision**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Park et al 05** (Daniel D. Mazanek, Carlos M. Roithmayr, and Jeffrey Antol Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Sang-Young Park, Robert H. Koons, and James C. Bremer Swales Aerospace, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Douglas G. Murphy, James A. Hoffman, Renjith R. Kumar, and Hans Seywald Analytical Mechanics Associates, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Linda Kay-Bunnell and Martin R. Werner Joint Institute for Advancement of Flight Sciences (JIAFS) The George Washington University, Hampton, Virginia Matthew A. Hausman Colorado Center for Astrodynamics Research The University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Jana L. Stockum San Diego State University, San Diego, California, “Comet/Asteroid Protection System (CAPS): Preliminary Space-Based System Concept and Study Results” NASA, May 2005, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2005-CometAsteroidProtectionSystem(CAPS)-NASA.pdf)]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">While terrestrial-based telescopes can address…rendezvous missions with the NEO.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**US key to international asteroid mitigation**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Schweickart 7** (Russell, Astronaut, M.S. in Aeronautics/Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Sky is Falling. Really,” The New York Times, 3-16-2007, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Why the concern? First, even with good…hearings would shame it into action.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 5 is Framing**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**First, the precautionary principle is the only way to evaluate the round. Magnitude must be evaluated before probability in order to ensure human survival.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Seamone 04** (Evan R., J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Precautionary Principle as the Law of Planetary Defense: Achieving the Mandate to Defend the Earth Against Asteroid and Comet Impacts While There is Still Time,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 1, 23 pgs, Fall 2004, [[https://litigation-essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid=1&doctype=cite&docid=17+Geo.+Int'l+Envtl.+L.+Rev.+1&srctype=smi&srcid=3B15&key=a2a4327cc80f04b8f9c09805718305b8]]) [Iuliano]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The precautionary principle governs responses to unknown…of good will that have little force.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**An undetected asteroid has no intervening actor to prevent its impact whereas impacts of war do.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Seamone 03**</span> (Evan R., J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Duty to ‘Expect the Unexpected’: Mitigating Extreme Natural Threats to the Global Commons Such as Asteroid and Comet Impacts with the Earth,” Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, 2003, Lexis [Iuliano]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This Article addresses “extreme” n7 natural threats…and various aspects of risk analysis.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**There is zero risk of intentional war – no escalation of small conflicts**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mandelbaum 1999** [Michael – professor of American Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins University and Director of East-West Relations @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: Is Major War Obsolete?” //Council on Foreign Relations//, February 25,</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">My argument says, tacitly, that while…against an attack on a king.”</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**That doesn’t even matter because there is no chance it will escalate**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Tepperman 9** (Jonathon, Newsweek, staff, Learning to Love The Bomb; Obama wants to rid the world of nuclear weapons. Why that might be a big mistake., dw: 9-14-2009, da: 7-6-2011, LexisNexis)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The argument that nuclear weapons can be agents…did what they had to do to avoid it.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Nyquist 99** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(J.R., J.R. Nyquist, a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and a renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, is the author of "Origins of the Fourth World War." May 20, “Is Nuclear war Survivable?”,[[@http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722]])</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As I write about Russia’s nuclear war preparations, I get…suffer a disastrous social disorganization.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**And specifically fallout doesn’t cause extinction – our evidence indicts theirs**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Seitz 11**</span> **(**Russell, **Research Fellow at Harvard University Department of Physics****,** Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, “Nuclear winter was and is debatable,” //Nature// Issue 473 pg 275-276, July 2011)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This potential climate disaster, popularized in…as to call the very term ‘nuclear winter’ into question.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The very act of debate over asteroids is key to discover the best solutions to the 1AC impacts.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Hartwell 07** __(__William, fellow at Desert Research Institute, Division of Earth and Ecosystem Sciences, Ch. 3: The Sky on the Ground: Celestial Objects and Events in Archaeology and Popular Culture, in Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach, SpringLink__)__</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Although cinematic film can be an excellent…their support should be focused on such issues.</span>


=<span style="text-align: left;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="text-align: left;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Weaponization UQ</span>=== 
====<span style="text-align: left;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The United States federal government should:**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">- **Announce a policy of conditional unilateral restraint**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">- **Permanently ground the X-37B and allow international verification**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Conditional deployment deters weaponization**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mueller 2** *Dr. Karl P. Mueller is a political scientist with the RAND Corporation, specializing in air and space strategy and other defense policy issues. From 1994 to 2001, he was Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Airpower Studies. He has lectured and written on a wide variety of national security topics, including nuclear and conventional deterrence theory, the political implications of space weaponization, military and economic coercion, the Bosnian and Kosovo wars, the moral dimensions of U.S. foreign policy, and the security strategies of small states and middle powers [[[http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html]], March 27th 2002, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2. Enlightened Self-Interest. The second…space weaponization to justify its costs.</span>


====<span style="text-align: left;">2NC: X-37b Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Opposition to the X-37B is only because it was a secret program that raised suspicion – a commitment to greater transparency solves</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Axe, 10** (David, Wired, “Secret U.S. Space Plane May Be //Too// Mysterious,” 11/18,</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/11/secret-spaceplane-eludes-observers-spooks-governments/]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Underline">The X-37’s flexibility </span>— “dual use” is…but it takes a fine balance.</span>


===<span style="text-align: left;">StratoSolar CP</span>=== 
====<span style="text-align: left;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The United States federal government should develop stratosphere based solar power**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Counterplan solves the case – StratoSolar is cheaper and solves energy**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Henson 11** (Kieth Henson, founding member of the L5 Society, lifetime member of the National Space Society, degree in electrical engineering from the University of Arizona, 2011, “An Idea for Inexpensive Electricity: Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above the Earth,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/8323]]</span>)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Why use a tethered approach, 12 miles…1.5 cents per kWh when mature.</span>


==<span style="text-align: left;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Weaponization DA</span>=== 
====<span style="text-align: left;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Huntley 11** (Senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush…Many devils may lurk in these details.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[INSERT LINK]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> (President of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several…The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mitchell et al 1** (Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with…most destructive military confrontation ever seen.</span>


====<span style="text-align: left;">Link - Unilateralism</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Dant 11** (Chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Cooperation with contested and competitive domain…coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6** (Senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf)</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation…beneficial cooperation would be more likely.</span>


====Link - SPS==== 
**Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash against hegemony**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>
Glaser: Since it would be such a huge undertaking...satellites built by an international effort.



2NC: 

==<span style="text-align: left;">Topicality</span>== 

==<span style="text-align: left;">Kritiks</span>== 



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>