Plan:

The United States Congress should substantially increase acquisition of commercially hosted Advanced Extremely High Frequency satellite payloads.


__Advantage One is Transmission Security__

There’s a massive and rapidly growing shortage of protected satellite bandwidth – the military’s current plan to supplement new AEHF communications satellites with long-term commercial leases will fail – ensures vulnerability to jamming and interference
**__Werner ‘11__** (Debra Werner, “Demanding times: U.S. military forges new relationship with satcom industry,” C4ISR Journal, 6-1-2011, http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=6320183)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Fifteen years ago, when U.S. military leaders were trying to anticipate future communications demands, they knew U.S. forces could be called upon at any time to fight or offer humanitarian assistance anywhere in the world. They knew voice, video and data traffic would continue to grow. What they didn’t foresee was widespread use of unmanned aircraft. Today, hundreds of unmanned planes are streaming videos and relaying sensor data over satellites, said Army Col. Patrick Rayermann, director of satellite communications integration at the U.S. Defense Department’s National Space Security Office. “It’s the killer app.” The drone war is the best known driver for the skyrocketing communications demand, but it is far from the only one. Increasingly, military forces want to maintain communications while traveling in aircraft, ships, ground vehicles and even on foot. “Our customers are constantly striving to have a service that is more mobile,” said Andrew Beegan, vice president and chief technology officer for global communications provider Segovia Inc. of Herndon, Va., a subsidiary of Inmarsat. Even the push for smartphones could factor in. Those phones will be used primarily to send information over local wireless networks, but some photographs or videos will need to be transmitted between tactical enclaves, which means sending the data over future aerial or satellite networks, Rayermann said. </span>**__This combination of growing demand, tightening defense budgets and rising commercial prices has defense officials searching for better ways to obtain satellite services__**__. **Commercial** **satellite leaders are**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> rushing in to make suggestions, while defending their pricing and </span>**__pushing__** __the idea of **hosting** more **government payloads on their satellites**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, or perhaps leasing entire satellites. </span>**__The U.S. military has begun laying the groundwork for closer cooperation with the industry and allies__**__. It is making plans to build communications networks that integrate the government’s own satellites with commercial spacecraft and those used by U.S. coalition partners. The U.S. already has agreements in place to share satellites with the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__K__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ingdom </span>__and Australia__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> U.S. </span>__National Security Space Strategy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> released in February </span>__underscores the need for allies and coalition partners to share satellites for__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> surveillance and </span>__communications__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, said Gregory Schulte, U.S. deputy undersecretary of defense for space policy, in a briefing for reporters. Wanted: Detailed requirements </span>**__Even as the U.S. military embraces commercial services as part of the answer, defense strategists show no signs of backing away from their plans to spend billions upgrading their own satellites__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In February 2012, the U.S. Navy plans to launch the first satellite in a constellation of Mobile User Objective System spacecraft to serve forces in the most remote locations. In August, </span>**__the__** __**U.S. Air Force launched the first** spacecraft in a planned constellation of__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Advanced Extremely High Frequency (</span>**__AEHF__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">) </span>**__satellites__**__, which provide highly protected, secure communications for the national leadership__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Air Force plans to keep launching Wideband Global Satcom spacecraft to provide less protected broadband communications for U.S. forces on ships and on bases. </span>**__Military officials are under no illusion that they can keep up with surging demand, or that adding military satellites can be the answer__**__. **It takes at least seven years for the government to develop and launch a new spacecraft**. **If the services were willing to wait that long, it would be difficult to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars in upfront funding in the current budget climate**, government and industry officials said. **Commercial firms, on the other hand, can build and launch new satellites in three**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to four </span>**__years__**__, and they are planning to do so__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__As it stands, however, commercial providers must make guesses about the exact capabilities that the military__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and intelligence community </span>__want in a commercial satellite__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. “Why doesn’t the government provide its requirements to industry so they can be incorporated in commercial satellites from the beginning?” said retired U.S. Navy Cmdr. J.J. Shaw, director for North America and Global Naval Programs for Inmarsat Government Services of Washington. “</span>__If industry knows what the government is looking for in terms of capabilities, security and information assurance, companies would respond__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” The government could, if it wanted, lease entire satellites. Leasing would spread out the cost of service over many years, something that is much easier to pay for in an era of flat or reduced military spending, Shaw added. In fact, in April, </span>__defense officials asked companies to comment on **a U.S. Central Command plan to lease its own dedicated communications satellite**. That project, known as Assured SATCOM in a Single Theater, **is the first step in a serious effort to determine whether the Defense Department can trim expenses by making a long-term commitment to lease a communications satellite**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Rayermann said. Also in April, U.S. Space of Dulles, Va., was awarded a $291,000 contract by the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center in Los Angeles to find ways to acquire satellite communications quickly and inexpensively. The award was the latest in a steady stream of contracts and announcements that indicate a new determination on the part of government officials to meet the demand by reining in the amount the government pays for satellite communications. New contracting approach </span>__To simplify the way military and civilian government agencies obtain specific commercial satellite services, the U.S. Defense Information Services Agency (DISA)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and the U.S. General Services Administration have joined forces to </span>__establish a one-stop shop known as Future Commercial Satellite Communications Services Acquisition (FCSA). Through that program, which could cost $10 billion over five years, **DISA is negotiating satellite service contracts that would remain in place for five years with options for three to five additional years**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The FCSA contracts, which replace existing satellite communications service contracts including Defense Satellite Transmission Services Global, are designed to make it easier for military units to obtain needed satellite communications services, said Col. Michelle Nassar, chief of DISA’s Commercial Satellite Communications Center. Under FCSA contracts, government organizations can lease satellite transponder capacity and obtain satellite communications subscription services or end-to-end solutions, which include bandwidth equipment, operations and maintenance. The end-to-end solutions will be offered through the FCSA Custom SATCOM Solutions, or CS2 program, Nasser said by email. </span>**__Military officials have lamented the__** __**rising cost of satellite services offered under new** FCSA **contracts. Prices are higher**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, industry officials said, </span>**__because there is far less available satellite communications capacity where it is needed most, above U.S. theaters of operations__** __in Afghanistan and Iraq__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Still, industry officials expect FCSA prices to decrease as additional contracts are negotiated and more vendors join the program. “Everyone wants to win a task order under FCSA so we can call news organizations like yours to announce our success,” one industry official said. To cut communications costs, for example, military officials might consider easing some satellite communications performance requirements, this official said. The FCSA contract calls on all providers to offer satellite communications featuring 99.999 percent performance. If there are certain jobs that do not require that level of performance, the government could save money by agreeing to accept lower standards. For example, a contract could lay out varied requirements, such as 99.999 percent performance for high-priority communications, but a lower standard for something like logistics data. For that type of contract, service providers could make more efficient use of transponders and offer lower costs by allowing less essential data to move across capacity shared by multiple users. In addition, the armed services could save money by making multiyear commitments to pay for a certain minimum amount of satellite bandwidth. If government agencies can enter a five-year agreement to buy bandwidth, the price would be significantly lower than the current costs of satellite capacity purchased one year at a time, said retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Craig Weston, chief executive for satellite service provider U.S. Space. Once you consider multiyear commitments, it makes sense for government officials to consider long-term leases or the outright purchase of dedicated commercial satellites, he added. </span>**__Industry officials__** __also **suggest the armed services take advantage of the plethora of commercial launches by sending their own communications payloads into orbit as hosted payloads**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To promote the idea, the Hosted Payload Alliance was established in March by Boeing Space and Intelligence Systems, Intelsat General Corp., Iridium Communications Inc., Lockheed Martin Space Systems, Orbital Sciences Corp., SES World Skies U.S. Government Solutions and Space Systems/Loral. </span>__The U.S. Army’s 2010 test of an Internet router in orbit is likely to pave the way for more hosted payloads__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, industry officials said. The Cisco-supplied Internet Routing in Space device, called ISIS, was launched as a payload on the Intelsat 14 satellite. “We think </span>__that’s a great model__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” said Philip Harlow, president and chief operating officer of satellite service provider Xtar LLC of Rockville, Md. If the primary payload does not tap out the satellite’s weight and power requirements, a secondary payload can benefit by paying a fraction of the cost of a dedicated spacecraft, Harlow added. Demand and supply </span>__Officials on all sides are certain there is no going back to a situation in which the military satisfies its own demand__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Before the 1991 Persian Gulf War, the U.S. military’s own satellites supplied 80 percent of the bandwidth used by U.S. forces. </span>__Now, 80 percent of the communications are supplied by commercial satellites__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In 2009, the U.S. communications director in Iraq told attendees at a satellite conference that </span>__96 percent of the communications requirements of U.S. Central Command__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> were being handled by commercial satellites. </span>**__The U.S. government’s current demand for an estimated 20 gigabytes per second of bandwidth is approximately twice the amount currently available__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, said Craig Cooning, chairman of Boeing Space and Intelligence Systems, at the Satellite 2011 conference in Washington. “</span>**__By 2019, the demand will reach 50 gigabytes per second__**__, and only 60 percent of that will be met__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” he added. “</span>**__The military appetite for bandwidth will never decrease, even after we draw down in the Middle East__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” Weston said. Industry already is responding to consumer and government demand by launching new satellites and offering new services. London-based Inmarsat, Hughes Communications, Yahsat of the United Arab Emirates, Iridium Communications, Paris-based Eutelsat and ViaSat Inc. are investing billions of dollars in new Ka-band satellites that promise lightning-quick data transmission rates. Competitors warn that Ka-band service can be degraded by dust and rain, but government and industry officials said the benefits of high data throughput combined with smaller antenna sizes will make both military and commercial Ka-band an important component of any future satellite communications network. Planning would be required for U.S. forces to make seamless use of military and commercial Ka-band because private companies and the military rely on different Ka-band ranges. The military uses 20.2 gigahertz to 21.2 gigahertz as the downlink frequency for Ka-band communications, and 30 to 31 gigahertz as the uplink frequencies bands. Commercial satellites use 17.7 to 20.2 gigahertz for the downlink and 27.5 to 30 gigahertz for the uplink. The Defense Department’s Wideband Global Satcom, which provides services to military users for free, transmits data in the military Ka-band and also X-band frequencies. Right now, military agencies do not have any ground terminals designed to operate in both the commercial and military Ka-band frequencies, but service officials are considering purchasing or leasing that type of equipment because it would offer greater flexibility, according to a spokesman for the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center’s Military Satellite Communications Systems Directorate. To meet requirements to encrypt all military signals prior to broadcast, service officials also may need to obtain additional equipment to enhance security for new ground terminals. There will be no silver bullet, some officials warn. It will take a combination of satellites operating in different frequency bands to satisfy military demand. Much of the military’s existing satellite infrastructure operates in X-band frequencies. “Traditionally, terminal and network investments account for over 75 percent of the overall satellite communications enterprise costs,” the Air Force said in a written response to questions. “Transitioning off X-band terminals to Ka-band will be costly, and take time. In addition, X-band offers signal properties, such as better resistance to weather effects, which are attractive to some customers.” </span>__The military’s recently released blueprint for satellite communications, the Joint Space Communications Layer Initial Capabilities Document, lays out the military’s goal of developing a flexible architecture that will allow the armed services to maintain communications in any environment. **Communications has become such an essential component of military operations that senior military planners want to ensure that no adversary can halt it**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__In terms of adversaries__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Schulte said, </span>**__it’s not just China that has proven its ability to jam satellite signals__**__. “**Iran** has used counter-space capabilities **and Ethiopia** has__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” Shulte told reporters. “</span>__Now it’s not anti-satellite weapons, but they **have jammed commercial satellites**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that have been used to carry the British Broadcasting Corp. and the Voice of America. </span>**__If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry about what others can do__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” </span>__Still, military officials do not envision creating a communications network that is immune to interference__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Joint Space Communications Layer describes plans for communications in a benign environment, a contested environment and a nuclear environment. </span>__When U.S. military communications are not being degraded by attacks or jamming, U.S. forces can rely heavily on commercial__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, military and coalition </span>__satellites to keep traffic flowing at high data rates__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__U.S. forces also must be prepared to operate **in a contested environment when** some of those high data-rate **communications links are likely to be degraded**. At those times, **the military will be forced to rely more heavily on its own satellites, which are designed to resist jamming and interference**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Even the Wideband Global Satcom constellation, which will be less sophisticated than the AEHF constellation in terms of security, gives users the ability to monitor spectrum and power to limit interference of signals, the Air Force said. In a contested environment, data transmission speeds may be lower, but military communications traffic will continue to flow. In the event of a nuclear war, “we need to be able to operate and to communicate, but not at the tactical and operational levels as much as at the national nuclear force level,” Rayermann said. While the military wants the ability to maintain communications in any environment, that doesn’t mean it would be wise to pay for all the capacity the Defense Department could possibly need. “One of the challenges is we know we need to be ready but we don’t know when and where,” Rayermann said. Given that uncertainty, military planners envision paying for moderate global capability and establishing the contracts and agreements with commercial providers that would allow the department to cope with a sudden surge in demand. </span>

Switching to hosted payloads enables a substantial increase in AEHF capability at a lower cost
**__Butler ‘11__** (Amy Butler, “Hosted Payload Hailed For New Business Model,” Aviation Week, 9-14-2011, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/asd/2011/09/13/02.xml&headline=Hosted%20Payload%20Hailed%20For%20New%20Business%20Model&channel=defense)
__Though U.S. Air Force officials are hailing the forthcoming **launch of a military payload hosted on a commercial satellite**, funding could be an obstacle to a future Pentagon satellite infrastructure that relies heavily on hosted payloads for service__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. SES-2 is slated to launch Sept. 17 on an Ariane 5 rocket. The satellite, made by Orbital Sciences Corp., will carry the Commercially Hosted Infrared Payload (Chirp) made by Science Applications International Corp. (SAIC). The project is a “hallmark of cooperation and opportunity” that brought together an “incredible combination of different interests,” says </span>__Douglas Loverro, executive director of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The payload includes one of four infrared telescopes designed by SAIC under an Air Force program started in the middle of the decade to find an alternative in the event that the performance of Space-Based Infrared System (Sbirs) prime contractor Lockheed Martin continued to disappoint, threatening to expose a gap in ballistic missile warning. The government opted to use one of the 2,000 X 2,000-pixel wide-field-of-view staring infrared arrays for experimentation. The concept emerged through a proposal from SES, Orbital (the satellite manufacturer) and SAIC. In total, the government spent about $216 million developing the sensors, readying the payload and integrating it onto the satellite, Loverro says. Originally, the sensor piece of the project was slated to cost $65 million. That changed to about $82.5 million owing to a one-year delay in the project, says Lt. Col. William McGuffey, director of SMC’s space projects division. Tip Osterthaler, president and CEO of SES Government Solutions, says Chirp is expected to reach orbit at about 15% of the typical cost for a government payload to be lofted. Loverro, however, notes that while qualified for space operations, the Chirp payload is not designed to meet the rigorous demands of nuclear hardening and integrated threat-warning and attack-assessment certification required for the Sbirs satellites. However, </span>**__with the cost of the first__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Sbirs and </span>**__A__**__dvanced **E**xtremely **H**igh-**F**requency **satellites at well more than $1 billion**, Loverro says he is exploring constellations that **provide an alternative to simply buying more of these large spacecraft**. AEHF is designed to provide jam-proof communications, including traffic to nuclear forces in the event of a nuclear war__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Loverro suggests, for example, that </span>**__alternative__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Sbirs and </span>**__AEHF fleets could reserve the nuclear-hardened portions of the mission for the basic spacecraft, with hosted payloads providing augmenting data__**__. Both of these missions require hardware in the geosynchronous belt, where many commercial spacecraft operate__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The question, however, is if this alternative approach will prove to be less costly. “If you can’t develop an architecture where the hosted payloads don’t decrease the cost of the rest of the architecture, then they really can’t earn their way onto the plate,” Loverro says. He says he still has a year of work to do to refine these alternative architecture concepts. In the meantime, Air Force officials will experiment with Chirp. Initially, the satellite will be inserted at 77 deg. West and eventually shift to 87 deg. West, its final operational slot. The Air Force plans to experiment with Chirp for just more than nine months. The orbital location is situated to provide coverage of infrared events on the West Coast of the U.S. as well as at White Sands Missile Range, N.M.</span>

And ensures bandwidth shortages are resolved without sacrificing military-grade protection
**__Erwin ‘11__** (Sandra Erwin, “For the Satellite Industry, Lines Blur Between Military and Commercial Markets,” National Defense, NDIA’s business and technology magazine, 3-18-2011, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=350)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In contrast to their skeptical attitude about refueling technologies, the executives sounded positively enthused about business opportunities in the area of “hosted payloads” for government customers. </span>**__A hosted payload is a secondary payload that is added__** __usually **to a commercial satellite, and used to perform a separate mission**. It is viewed as **an efficient way to use up excess satellite capacity and it saves agencies the huge cost of buying or leasing an entire spacecraft**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__The Air Force forecasts increase use of hosted payloads, said Gregory L. Schulte, deputy assistant secretary of defense for space policy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Speaking at a House Armed Services Committee strategic forces subcommittee March 16, Schulte said a military infrared sensor payload is set to launch probably this summer on a commercial communications satellite. “That infrared payload will help us with the next generation of our missile warning satellites in determining whether or not that's the right technology we want to use,” he said. Defense agencies have been working with hosted payloads for many years, he said. The problem is that the development pace of new payloads can’t always keep up with the commercial industry’s launch plans “So it's a thing that we're exploring,” Schulte said. “We'll see how this works out with this first one and we'll continue to explore opportunities.” The Federal Aviation Administration also has been a consumer of hosted payloads to augment its air-traffic navigation system. Companies see a growing market in the Defense Department and NASA, which may be looking at deploying additional transponders or science payloads. Government agencies and satellite suppliers are still trying to figure out how to make this work, said Foust. “There’s a little bit of a learning curve from both sides,” he said. The biggest issues is trying to synchronize the schedules so that companies that build payloads have them ready to go at the same time that a new satellite is set to launch. Boeing is going to be aggressively courting this market, said O’Neill. The company already has been involved in several hosted payload programs over the last 15 years, he said. A huge opportunity is coming up in four years when Iridium is expected to begin launching 72 new satellites to replace its current constellation. These will be bigger satellites, O’Neill said. “Each has volume, mass, communications capacity set aside for hosted payloads. … We feel confident that before the Iridium train starts leaving the station four years from now that we can fill up a reasonable fraction of the hosted payload capacity on the satellites.” </span>__Craig Cooning, CEO of Boeing Satellite Systems International, hailed **hosted payloads** as **the answer to the military’s communications bandwidth shortage**. The U.S. government’s current demand for military satellite bandwidth is estimated to be 20 gigabytes per second, which is twice the amount of what is available__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Cooning said in a keynote speech at Satellite 2011. </span>__By 2019 the demand will reach 50 gigabytes per second, and only 60 percent of that will be met__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__The rapid expansion military unmanned aircraft has been a major factor is the shortage of satellite capacity__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Air Force pilots operate UAVs over Afghanistan, for instance, from bases in the United States. </span>__These two-way links require enormous amounts of bandwidth__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. “This is a problem for the war fighter, but it’s also a great opportunity for our industry,” Cooning said. “</span>__One of Boeing’s key recommendations to address this shortfall is a hosted payload. … We believe that **a hosted payload can help the U.S. government with its bandwidth needs**, and also the commercial satellite services provider, which benefits from a second source of revenue__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” Boeing recently formed a new commercial satellite services division to tackle this portion of the market. “</span>**__Literally any satellite service – in any frequency band – can be provided through a hosted payload__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” Cooning said. “</span>**__That includes__** __weather monitoring; surveillance; **protected military communications**; mobile communications; and business communications__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” Boeing’s foray into the commercial business is viewed as a sign that the company expects the military business to soften, Foust said. “Boeing had been on the sidelines in the commercial satellite business for several years.” Now, they are entering the sector in a big way. </span>

We’ll isolate two scenarios:

First is __Network-Centric Operations__

Only hosted payloads can provide sufficient protected communications to support net-centric operations
**__Rosario & Rousseau ‘9__** (J. Del Rosario, and C. Rousseau, Northern Sky Research, LLC, “An Analysis of Hosted Payloads and Dual-use Satellites as Middle Ground between Commercial Outsourcing and Internal Asset Deployment,” paper presented at the ISU 13th Annual International Symposium: Space for a Safe and Secure World, February 18-20, 2009)
__The government and military vertical has been a stable and growing market for commercial satellite service providers in recent years. However, there is a commensurably **increasing concern that militaries** and governments **may be becoming too reliant on commercial capacity that is regarded as less secure compared to internal space assets**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Increased bandwidth requirements particularly on the military side have led to pronouncements by the U.S. Military for instance that it cannot be self-reliant until at least the year 2020. </span>__The growing bandwidth crunch has led to plans to increase deployment of proprietary satellite assets, which cost in the US $billions__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Programs such as Wideband Global Satcom (WGS), </span>__Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and the Transformational Satellite Communications System (TSAT) </span>__have been slated as budget line items to specifically address the growing bandwidth needs of the U.S. Military. Yet, funding for expensive military programs have been slashed including the next-generation TSAT program, which was to be among the cornerstones for “Netcentric Warfare.” **Pure commercial outsourcing that raise concerns over security, reliability and availability of capacity coupled with the high costs and slow deployment of proprietary military assets are creating huge challenges** for militaries and governments worldwide **in how to address warfighting requirements** in the next decade. **An idea that has been regularly discussed** in light of budget considerations **is to host a** government or **military payload on a commercial satellite**. Dual-use programs for use by both commercial and government clients have been in existence for governments like Australia and South Korea__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. This presentation will examine and analyze the case for hosted payloads and dual-use satellite systems, including: The Big Picture Speed to Deployment Technical Attributes Technical Concerns Easy Retrofit or Large-scale Re-engineering The Bottom Line The Big Picture The military business, specifically the U.S. Military, has been a stable and growing vertical market over at least the past seven years, in particular since the Iraq war. Satellite operators and service providers have spun-off government entities specifically to serve military and government customers more efficiently, and these divisions account for a growing revenue stream with little sign of slowing down. Increased military bandwidth requirements over the long term lead to a question of deploying more satellite capacity in order to support a relatively stable business, yet satellite operators have not taken risks even when the Pentagon has indicated that it cannot be selfreliant until at least the year 2020. The move is understandable given that longer term military contracts are hard to come by, unlike the video markets where transponder capacity is signed over the long term. On the military side, a seemingly growing bandwidth crunch has led to plans to increase deployment of proprietary satellite assets, which cost in the $billions. Programs such as Wideband Gapfiller Satellite (WGS), Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) and the Transformational Satellite Communications System (TSAT) have been slated as budget line items to specifically address the growing bandwidth needs of the U.S. Military. However, budget processes are oftentimes arduous and protracted in justifying procurement of such assets, particularly during times when governments are faced with other seemingly more pressing issues such as financial bailouts in order to restore the health of their economy, if not the entire global financial system. Budget Considerations in Light of the Current State of the Global Economy Consequences of budget processes inherent in government procurement often lead to delays of programs, reduction of the original capability of programs, or the outright cancellation of such programs. However, as requirements for war fighting that inherently incorporate next-generation systems like communications-on-the-move (COTM) capabilities need to become more integrated in a defense network umbrella, delays, cutbacks or cancellations impede or even handicap a nation’s ability to project power. The current state of the global economy certainly puts into question many priorities in terms of civil needs and military needs. On balance, as a new administration takes the reigns of power in the United States, it puts priorities in serving America’s needs while protecting the safety and interests of its citizens at home and abroad. Spending for civil priorities at home such as a jobs creation program that address immediate needs will likely take precedence over next-generation military programs. Bandwidth requirements for the U.S. Military may seem a minor consideration as funds for bank and auto industry bailouts among others are debated in the U.S. Congress. The scale as well as the priority by which other industries is put ahead of programs including military resource build-up leads to alternative thinking that should address both budget savings and resource improvement in light of the current economic turmoil the U.S. and the globe has to undergo within the next year or two. An idea that has been regularly discussed in light of budget considerations is to host a government or military payload on a commercial satellite. Dual-use programs for use by both commercial and government clients have actually been in existence and have worked quite well for other governments like Australia and South Korea. Will hosted payloads or dual-use satellite systems work just as well for the U.S. Military, the largest government entity that uses commercial satellite bandwidth? And will other nations continue to practice hosted payload arrangements or will their own technical requirements lead to proprietary satellite program deployment as well? Military and Government demand for Commercial Satellite Services </span>**__Reliance on commercial satellite assets is now a foregone conclusion__** __and will remain a key component of U.S. and international government/military strategies for the foreseeable future__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Commercial satellite operators, specifically Intelsat, Eutelsat and SES Global, have accounted for a large percentage of U.S. Military leases and their government arms see continued growth in both transponder uptake and revenue streams for services over the near term. But as mentioned earlier, even with admission from the Pentagon that a bandwidth gap exists and is likely growing, Intelsat, Eutelsat and SES have not disclosed plans to launch satellites over the globe’s hotspots like Iraq and Afghanistan. Once again, government procurement as seen historically is unlike video customers that sign leases over the long term. Interviews by NSR with these operators point to the fact that </span>**__the U.S. Government seems to be more open to a closer partnership. Whether these discussions lead to long term leases__** __capacity on **or to** **put payloads on commercial satellites will depend on contract vehicles over the next few years**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It is quite apparent from the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) itself that </span>**__even with the launch of its own proprietary assets, net-centric warfare will require bandwidth that is at least twice the capability of the WGS constellation__**__. An inflection point in 2010__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (see curve above) </span>__is foreseen by the Pentagon where **a sudden surge of demand from less than 20 [gigabytes per second]** Gbps **of capacity surges to over 30** Gbps of demand **by 2012, jumping** further **to** approach **50** Gbps **by 2019**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__Currently, the Pentagon’s answer to its bandwidth shortfall is to outsource what it needs to commercial satellite operators__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The DoD has outlined commercial bandwidth needs by frequency and by region of the globe until 2019 [2]. Historically, </span>__the largest cost of commercial outsourcing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as seen in Figure 3 </span>__to the U.S. Military has been bandwidth, accounting for 87% of all spending__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> form 2000-2005. The next line item, </span>__equipment purchases, account for a mere 4% of total spending__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In its own projections, NSR adheres to the U.S. Military’s view that indeed, the Pentagon will have little choice but to outsource capacity to commercial operators [1]. However, the launch of new internal capacity should have some effect on commercial demand such that developments in equipment and frequency will have to move form commercial to proprietary developments. Moreover, the call for withdrawal of troops in Iraq as well as the budget crunch in the U.S. should further lead to decreasing commercial bandwidth demand in the near term. Commercial capacity demand by the U.S. Military should diminish but not disappear. The commercial market in terms of bandwidth demand has likely peaked in 2008 and will likely begin to decline until 2014 before growing at positive levels once again beginning in 2015. Militaries and civil government agencies have outsourced bandwidth requirements on traditional commercial C-band and Ku-band transponders, as well as X-band that fall under the exclusive use of non-commercial customers. In the future, commercial Ka-band transponders are expected to be used more extensively by government customers as well. The growth of commercially outsourced bandwidth has been steady since 2003 for both U.S. and non-U.S. government users. As applications and communications requirements grow over time and commercially outsourced bandwidth begin to be integrated more fully in Netcentric warfare, security requirements that may not be at the level that the U.S. Military may be used to have to be addressed. And therein lies one of the challenges of incorporating commercial capacity that puts into question whether it is indeed compelling to dual-use or hosted payload solutions as a sound and/or viable option for the U.S. and other military entities around the globe. Issues with Hosted Payloads Militaries have invested on highly expensive systems and paid very high premiums due to requirements that are oftentimes not met by commercial bandwidth resources. Uppermost in the minds of military users are the following requirements. • Security • Reliability • Availability • Cost The current and planned resources of the U.S. Military have the following attributes: • Defense Satellite Communications System DSCS satellites use super-high frequencies for secure, jam-proof voice and data communications among defense officials, battlefield commanders, ground troops, aircraft, ships, the White House and the State Department. They also carry space operations communications and early warning data. • Wideband Gapfiller Satellite (WGS), the replacement to DSCS, provides greater capability and bandwidth than all the DSCS satellites combined while keeping security and other features intact for X-band and Ka-band. • The constellation of Milstar satellites provide secure, jam resistant, worldwide communications in EHF, linking command authorities with ships, submarines, aircraft and ground stations. Milstars are the most secure of the various communications satellites. They resist jamming and are hardened against nuclear attack. Milstars can operate in any combat environment with a low probability of detection or interception. • The AEHF constellation is the successor to Milstar. The physics of the AEHF waveform make the satellites well suited for strategic communications in a nuclear stressed environment. The tight beam is an enormous benefit to tactical and special operations units due to the low probability of detection and interception. • Mobile User Operational Satellite (MUOS), a next-generation constellation will not be affected by weather, environmental constraints or foliage in UHF. Under the new system, even troops in the most remote locations or buildings with no satellite access would see a big increase in communications capabilities. • Finally, TSAT, which has an Advanced Polar System (APS), will support strategic and national users in the polar region in EHF. The APS is designed to withstand nuclear attacks and support the strategic mission with uninterrupted service. These satellites introduce the use of jam-resistant laser crosslinks for interconnection. Of all the issues that are paramount in the military’s mind, cost is the one component that provides a distinct disadvantage when proprietary military systems are assessed against commercial services. The next-generation satellites planned for the U.S. Military as noted above – WGS, AEHF, MUOS and TSAT – have had cost overruns as well as delays in delivery. And here, the case for hosted payloads is perhaps the most compelling when cost considerations become increasingly important as government budgets, due to economic turmoil, are stressed. Military Proprietary Satellites Programs: An update </span>**__The current generation of military satellite systems__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for the U.S. Department of Defense </span>**__is about to reach their end of life__**__. **Next-generation systems such as**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the WGS, </span>**__AEHF__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and MUOS are likely to be deployed within the next several years. In fact, the first WGS satellite was launched in October 2007 and is currently operational for use by the U.S. Pacific Command. Other governments are likewise deploying proprietary military assets that add to the resources of allied militaries around the globe. However, </span>__there are two issues that have haunted military procurement that__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> once again </span>__favor the case for hosted payloads__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. - </span>__Speed to Deployment: The schedule for deploying next-generation assets **has been delayed, which led to commercial outsourcing** in terms **of bandwidth** needs for Iraq and Afghanistan. Continued activities in these countries will likely put pressure on commercially available capacity covering these two countries. More importantly, **another flashpoint** around the globe such as a new hotspot **in the Middle East, South Asia or the Horn of Africa will strain available commercial bandwidth sources further**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. - </span>__Cost and Funding issues: As mentioned earlier, **cost and funding issues** continue to haunt next-generation satellite deployment__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. TSAT has been a victim of budget cuts where the constellation was originally planned or scheduled to be launched around the 2012-2014 period but has now been postponed for 2019. It is thus easy to speculate that the program may ultimately be cancelled due to funding shortfalls. In a more recent development, it was announced earlier this year that </span>__technical issues encountered during testing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and the need to swap out some faulty components </span>**__have delayed__** __the U.S. Air Force's first **AEHF** satellite and added some $259 million to the program's overall cost__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The AEHF program's cost grew significantly in 2008 after Congress, concerned about the Air Force's ability to deliver TSAT on schedule, directed the service to buy a fourth satellite in the series. Although the third AEHF satellite was expected to cost $939 million, restarting production to build the fourth will cost $2.6 billion, according to a Sept. 30, 2008 Pentagon acquisition cost summary [3]. The addition of the fourth satellite brought the total estimated cost of the AEHF program to $9.9 billion, triggering a mandatory recertification of the program by the Pentagon. The Figure 5 above and 6 below shows the aggregate total capacity from programs such as WGS, MUOS, AEHF and TSAT, among many more that are currently expected to enter into service in the next six years [1]. This information comes from various official and historical data sources and U.S. and international programs manufacturer contacted by NSR. The figures above show a large addition of capacity for proprietary systems around the globe. This is dominated by the U.S. Military with the launch of WGS, MUOS, and AEHF and included in the chart is TSAT as well, although the TSAT program may be rescheduled or cancelled. Host government/military payloads on commercial satellites – a recap In 2003, the Optus and Defense C1 satellite was launched, carrying a mixed payload that now serves the needs of Singtel Optus Pty Limited and the Australian Department of Defense for Australia, New Zealand and East Asia. The satellite operates in four frequency bands: • Commercial services in Ku-band for Singtel Optus • Military communications at UHF, X-band and Ka-band for the Australian Department of Defense. Optus uses C1's Ku-band payload to distribute video, DTH, telephony and Internet connections to remote areas. For the Australian Department of Defense, the satellite's Kaband payload provides high-data rate broadcast coverage for video, voice and data communications. The satellite’s X-band provides medium-to-high data rate voice and data for land and maritime applications. And finally, the UHF payload provides secure low-rate voice and data communications to mobile platforms. In Asia, South Korea launched its first civil-military dual-use communication satellite in August 2006, a move that introduced cutting-edge warfare systems in its overall capability. The dual-use satellite carries 12 military relay terminals and 24 commercial terminals, whereby the 12 military relays are capable of covering troop communications from the Malacca Strait to the Central Pacific sea areas. Prior to the satellite’s launch, the South Korean military relied on ground-based communication systems; however, the system using underground military cables or microwave relay towers was vulnerable to enemy attack. The dual-use satellite system has been successful thus far such that South Korea plans to deploy a total of 20 satellites, including eight multipurpose satellites, by 2015 [Koreasat]. One of the key benefits of dual use systems include reduced costs compared to internal asset build-up. A case in point is the recent budget challenges faced by the U.S. Military’s TSAT program, which took a serious hit in FY2009. This will have a dramatic impact on U.S. Military capabilities as the bandwidth the U.S. had planned on owning internally will be drastically reduced within the time frame set forth in the original schedule of the program. Dual-use systems or </span>**__hosted payloads__** __that also draw on commercial customers **cost a fraction of proprietary assets**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To illustrate, U.S. Military procurement of military satellites costs run in the billions of US dollars, while hosted payloads or dual-use satellites such as Australia’s Optus and Defense C1 cost $500 million. Even with payload and bus enhancements, where the costs of which are shared with the commercial operator or partner, the total price tag is far below deploying and owning a proprietary military system. </span>__The other benefit of dual use or hosted payloads is the speed by which assets are deployed. Even if TSAT were to be deployed based on the original scope of five satellites, the delays that are now expected to take place, where first launch has been moved from 2013 to 2016 at the earliest, means that bandwidth planning and systems capability will have to likewise be delayed. Barring other available alternatives, commercial outsourcing will once again have to take up the slack__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. These considerations appear to be in full view of the U.S. Military’s system planners. In July 2008, AGS (the U.S. government services affiliate of SES Global) announced that it was awarded a contract by the U.S. Air Force to host an experimental sensor on board a commercial spacecraft. The three-year $65 million firm fixed price contract will host the experimental sensor on board an SES AMERICOM spacecraft scheduled to be launched in 2010 and will operate over the United States. The program, known as the Commercially Hosted Infrared Payload (CHIRP) Flight Demonstration Program, will have the primary purpose of testing a new type of infrared sensor from geo-synchronous altitude. The passive infrared sensor will be integrated onto a commercial satellite so that it can be launched into orbit, and the data can then be transmitted to the ground for analysis. Although the CHIRP program is for experimental purposes only and also not designed to address the communications mission and bandwidth shortfall faced by the U.S. Military, </span>__one cannot help but ponder whether the next line of contracts coming from the U.S. Government will be for dual use satellites__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> similar to the Australia and South Korean models </span>__or for hosted payloads__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It seems that the move is catching on as the 2009 Budget Request of the US. Navy included $42M over the next two years for a UHF satcom hosted payload to serve as an interim while the transition from the Ultra High Frequency Operational satellite (UFO) to the MUOS constellations take place. This would be a small prototype UHF payload to be outfitted as a secondary payload on an existing commercial spacecraft design. The Request for Proposal has been issued and the launch is expected in 2011 after a selection in late 2009. The impetus is there, having granted a contract to SES and discussions are more prevalent from both the military side as well as the commercial operator side. For the military, cost and speed provide compelling arguments to deploy a dual-use or hosted payload satellite system. For commercial satellite operators, cost-sharing, long-term contracting and an anchored tenant provide invaluable benefits in a business that is inherently risky given the 15-year life of the asset. This may mean that new and innovative procurements to provide capacity to bridge military customers needs is becoming a recognized acquisition procedure. However, technical concerns will still have to be addressed in order to ensure full reliability of the system. These issues and concerns include: Technical Attributes • Frequency coordination issues • Interference issues • Performance issues Technical Concerns • On the commercial operator side, will the hosted payload interfere with the operation of the satellite? • On the military side, will the commercial payload limit the performance of the military hosted payload? • Will the military customer accept that a commercial operator, with a larger stake in-orbit on the same platform take precedence and control over the satellite, hence its payload? Easy Retrofit or Large-scale Re-engineering • From a satellite manufacturer’s point of view, is a hosted payload system where the U.S. Military will have high technical requirements lead to wide-scale system’s development? • Will delivery time be impacted by the military payload? The Bottom Line In 2008, </span>__Pentagon leaders disclosed that non-traditional conflicts such as the insurgents and terrorists facing coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan will be the main military battlefields for years to come. The classified Pentagon assessment likewise concluded that **the U.S. Military in**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> many respects including </span>**__its__** __**bandwidth resources** **is prevented from improving its ability to respond to any new crisis such as potential outbreaks in North Korea, Iran, Lebanon or China**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__Hosted payloads provide__** __a vehicle by which **cost savings and speed of deployment** are enabled by the commercial sector. Faced with the difficult current economic environment and the limited ability of the U.S. Government to allocate funds for next-generation space programs, hosted payloads may be the answer in **addressing urgent requirements in order to maintain and even improve its war fighting capability in terms of fully developing** “**Netcentricity**.”__

And, continuing reliance upon commercial leasing will only increase vulnerability
**__Thompson ‘10__** (Loren B. Thompson, Chief Operating Officer of the Lexington Institute, former Professor and Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, Ph.D., M.A., Government, Georgetown University, B.S., Political Science, Northeastern University, “Lack Of Protected Satellite Communications Could Mean Defeat For Joint Force In Future War,” 4-14-2010, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/lack-of-protected-satellite-communications-could-mean-defeat-for-joint-force-in-future-war?a=1&c=1171)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In the years since the Cold War ended, </span>**__the__** __U.S. **military has become heavily dependent upon satellite communications to maintain its global connectivity**. **Without such links, it would be difficult for the military to operate in a coordinated fashion or exchange information critical to situational awareness**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_msocom_1|[K1]]] </span>__. Defense experts have repeatedly warned that **the availability of space-based communications could be compromised** in future conflicts **by the fact that 80-90% of all military traffic is transmitted on vulnerable commercial satcom channels**. However, there is a related problem that far fewer military observers have noticed: **only about 1% of defense communications today are protected against even the most modest jamming threats**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Jamming means overloading key frequencies with so much electronic "noise" that communications cannot get through to intended destinations. It's a simple process in the case of unprotected satellite links, because signals are relatively weak after traveling 22,000 miles from transponders in geosynchronous orbit__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> -- the orbit that communications satellites must maintain in order to serve as "stationary" links above particular points on the Earth's surface (they aren't really stationary, but they appear to be because their rotation matches that of the Earth). If the satellites were any closer to Earth they would zoom across the surface at a speed of several miles per second, making them unavailable as communications nodes most of the time. So they must sit 22,000 miles above sea level, which makes their signals easy to overwhelm with modest amounts of electromagnetic interference, especially if the jammer is near communications receivers. </span>**__The only satellite constellation__** __the military is currently building **that can provide protection against the full array of potential communications threats is** the Advanced Extremely High Frequency (**AEHF**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_msocom_2|[K2]]] </span>__) system. AEHF is **designed to cope with everything from jammers to hackers to** scintillation from **thermonuclear explosions**. However, although it will provide ten times as much capacity as the legacy MilStar constellation, it can only carry a small portion of the military communications traffic passing through space portals. As a result, the amount of that traffic that is well protected against jamming will peak at 6-7% in fiscal year 2012, leaving over 90% of joint-force transmissions vulnerable to degradation__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. That's not a serious problem if the biggest threats we face are rag-tag adversaries such as the Taliban, but </span>**__in a war__** __with China **there's a high likelihood that America's military would lose the use of most of its satcom links** in places like the Western Pacific__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Bush Administration had an initiative for addressing this problem called the Transformational Communications Satellite program, or TSAT. TSAT would have provided internet-like access to U.S. warfighters all over the world, including troops on the move, from a constellation of five very capable satellites. However, TSAT was canceled last year due to astronomical (no pun intended) costs, and </span>__now **the military** space community **has no real plan for assuring that a reasonable portion of joint-force communications traffic will be protected against jamming**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_msocom_3|[K3]]] </span> **__in the future__**__. **The feasible**, affordable **answer is** not to begin a new program, but **to start incrementally evolving AEHF towards a more robust capability**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. I argued in Space News several years ago that such an approach was more likely to work out than trying to implement the complex TSAT initiative, but at the time everybody in the business was still chasing the TSAT opportunity. Now that it's gone, </span>__military planners need to start thinking about how the government can leverage its investment in AEHF **through** incremental **improvements to each new satellite**. **If that move is not made soon, our warfighters may** one day **face an adversary who knows how to isolate them from the rest of the joint force and then kill them**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

Net-centricity is doctrinally entrenched – only a question of effectiveness
**__Groh ‘10__** (Jeffrey L. Groh, Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University, “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,” in The U.S. Army War College Guide to National Security Issues, Volume I: Theory of War and Strategy, 4th Ed., J. Boone Bartholomees, Jr., July 2010, http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Now that the literature review is complete, it is possible to investigate the potential of NCW. This author has not found any proponents of NCW touting that this concept is the “Silver Bullet” to solve all the problems of future warfare. </span>__Many of the same problems that have plagued warfighters in the past exist today and will exist in the future: fog and friction, competing advances in technologies, the unpredictable nature of human behavior on the battlefield, and asymmetric warfare__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to name only a few. </span>__The issue isn’t the existence of these challenges to modern warfare but how one exploits the advantages of information to mitigate risk and take advantage of strengths in the force to achieve objectives__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.35 Are the potential benefits of NCW worth the opportunity costs associated with aggressively moving forward with the implementation of this new concept? </span>__The concept of Network Centric Warfare has already moved beyond the “bumper sticker” stage. **NCW is not a fad that will go quietly into the night**. **There is little doubt that DOD is spending significant finite resources to pursue NCW capabilities**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. DOD costs in the area of military electronics, aircraft avionics, vetronics, and missile guidance, communications, electro-optics is approaching $99.57 billion in the 2010.36 </span>**__There may be changes to terminology__**__, shifts in policy, **and alterations in implementation plans**. **However, the core concepts** that relate to leveraging the power of information **will remain**. The **DOD and senior military leaders have been consistent**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> yet cautious </span>**__in their support of a networked force__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld concisely stated the importance a fully networked force in the Transformation Planning Guidance, “We must achieve: fundamentally joint, network-centric, distributed forces capable of rapid decision superiority and massed effects across the operational environment. Realizing these capabilities will require transforming our people, processes, and military forces.”37 ADM Giambastiani, former Commander U.S. Joint Forces Command stated, “A fully collaborative and networked force is an imperative, not a luxury.”38 The former Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, General Michael Haggee said, “The capability to connect disparate units spread over the battlefield will help to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance to commanders who can then call in fire support…Information Technology (IT) will also be critical to Sea Basing, a key component of the Navy’s Sea Power 21 Concept.”39 Vice Chief of Staff, U.S. Army Gen. Peter Chiarelli recently stated, “Access to information can mean the difference between living and dying.”40 General William Wallace, USA (Ret.) goes on to caution that “despite the enormous benefits of using a network, it would be folly to lose sight of the fact that it is still merely a tool to aid the commander in understanding and decisionmaking.”41 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates wrote in his recent Foreign Affairs article, We should be modest about what military force can accomplish and what technology can accomplish. The advances in precision, sensor, information, and satellite technologies have led to extraordinary gains in what the U.S. military can do. The Taliban were dispatched within three months; Saddam’s regime was toppled in three weeks. A button can be pushed in Nevada, and seconds later a pickup truck will explode in Mosul. A bomb dropped from the sky can destroy a targeted house while leaving the one next to it intact. But no one should ever neglect the psychological, cultural, political, and human dimensions of warfare.42 </span>**__The question is not if DOD will proceed with NCW, but how__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. NCW WAY AHEAD </span>__The DOD has a plan for the implementation of NCW. The plan calls for a holistic approach to the implementation of NCW that investigates the potential of NCO in joint, multinational, and interagency operations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As previously discussed in this paper, there has been a significant effort to establish the theoretical underpinnings of the concept. The publication, Implementation of Network-Centric Warfare, establishes the outline of the plan to move forward with NCW. </span>**__The Services are working to integrate information systems, sensors, and decisionmaking processes and technology__** __**to leverage the capabilities of a fully networked joint force**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Air Force Command and Control Constellation network is an example of the integration of C2; ISR; tankers; space, ground, and sea-based systems; and strike platforms to achieve shared awareness in the operational environment to maximize effects.43 Constellation works with FORCEnet (U.S. Navy), and LandWarNet (U.S. Army) to achieve synergy on the battlefield.</span>

Net-centric operations are key to sustain naval power in the face of anti-access strategies
**__Burch ‘8__** (Eric Burch, Master Chief Petty Officer, Information Technology Specialist (ITCM), U.S. Navy, citing a November 2002 U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings article by Vice Admiral Mike Bucchi, U.S. Navy (Ret), and Admiral Mike Mullen, U.S. Navy; “Explanation of Key Maritime Transformational Concepts,” Combined Joint Operations from the Sea, NATO Center of Excellence, March 2008, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/COE/Individual/CJOS/MaritimeIn/MaritimeTr)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">SEA SHIELD embraces emerging technologies and concepts that for the first time have the potential to extend naval defensive firepower beyond the task force. SEA SHIELD encompasses some things great navies always have tried to do—sea control off hostile coasts and maritime defense of the homeland, for example—and some that no navy has ever done, such as projecting defense deep inland against cruise and ballistic missiles. But whether new missions or traditional ones done in new ways, these enhanced warfighting capabilities will play an increasingly central role in U.S. national security in the decades ahead. </span>__U.S. national strategy is founded on the advantages of forward-deployed forces, sea and air supremacy, and information superiority, allowing U. S. forces to fight and win thousands of miles from American shores. **Potential enemies** know this, and they **are working to circumvent U.S. strengths by denying its forces access to their regions** **and** by developing asymmetric strategies to conduct attacks on U.S. soil. Future adversaries will **strive to hold U.S. deployments at risk by interdicting air and sea lines of communication, rendering debarkation points unusable, and delaying or denying political access**. By **projecting defensive power**, SEA SHIELD **will defeat these efforts and enable** the U.S. Navy to "climb into the ring" to conduct SEA STRIKE and SEA BASE in forward theaters of operation, setting the stage for **combat victory**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Theater Air and Missile Defense. Effective theater air and missile defense is critical to achieving the vision for SEA SHIELD. This is a challenging task, as </span>**__countering emerging cruise and ballistic missiles will require advanced network-centric operations__** __and high levels of weapon-system technology, seamlessly fused to produce a single integrated air picture available to all elements of the force__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Air defense in the 21st century will require missiles that reach ranges, altitudes, and speeds never before seen. </span>**__Networks will pass vast volumes of precise data to achieve near-instantaneous speed of command, ensuring targets are destroyed using advanced weapons with extended range, over-the-horizon__**__, and ballistic missile defense versions of the Standard missile and new models of the advanced medium-range air-to-air missile (AMRAAM)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Ballistic missile defense is yet another potential breakthrough on the horizon. Over the next decade, our Navy's globally deployed, mobile infrastructure of sea-based radars and missile launchers will be used to field ballistic missile defense, for both forward theaters and the U.S. homeland. Linked to a network of space and airborne sensors, and directed by highly responsive command-and-control systems, a family of sea-based interceptor missiles will provide options for boost phase, midcourse, and terminal defense as part of an overall joint force ballistic missile defense system. Tests of this capability are ongoing, and recent successes indicate that sea-based missile defense will strengthen U.S. security in the years ahead. Sea and Littoral Control. </span>__Battlespace control near land is essential to ensure prompt access and freedom of maneuver for joint forces moving from the sea to objectives deep inland. Surface and subsurface **threats include small, fast surface combatants, modern ultra-quiet submarines, and** an array of floating, moored, and buried **mines**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__To detect and defeat these threats, force sensors and weapons will be integrated to produce battlespace dominance on, above, and below the sea. This is a challenging goal because sensors and weapons in the littoral environment have limited ranges as a result of environmental conditions and the clutter of maritime traffic. **The most effective approach to countering these limitations is to network large numbers of distributed sensors and weapons**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Navy is pursuing this approach through advanced research and program development. </span>__The key to future effectiveness against modern, quiet diesel submarines in shallow waters once again will be the application of advanced sensor and networking technologies__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. These will contribute to building a common undersea picture that fuses the information from distributed sensors, platforms, and command elements to permit collaborative mission planning and tactical decision making. New, longer-range individual sensors and new acoustic processors on nuclear submarines will complement distributed sensors. In addition, multi-static and advanced signal processing technologies will extract every possible element of information from the surrounding environment, making the water column increasingly transparent. None of these approaches will make anti-submarine warfare easy, but in the aggregate, </span>__these technologies__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, combined with well-trained sailors using realistic simulators to refine their skills, </span>__can sustain assured access for U.S. forces in the face of diesel submarine threats__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Mine warfare is on the verge of a revolution in the U.S. Navy. This decade will see the progressive fielding of new systems that will make mine countermeasure (MCM) capabilities integral to forward-deployed strike groups. While dedicated MCM forces will remain vital to keeping open the sea lines of communication, surface and subsurface combatants will detect and avoid mines on their own, sustaining the critical tempo of operations early in crises. Both dedicated and organic MCM forces will use new generations of sophisticated UUVs—eventually to be joined by unmanned air and surface vehicles—to detect, avoid, and neutralize mines at all depths. Small, fast enemy surface combatants represent another threat to operations in geographically confined areas, where their size and the surrounding clutter of geography and traffic make long-range detection difficult. While destroying these craft in port or at long range is the preferred solution, a dispersed force of smaller surface and air platforms networked with distributed, unmanned sensors, offers promising response capabilities once enemy vessels are under way. Revolutionary new technologies, such as directed-energy weapons, also offer promise as the next generation of systems for precise close-in defense against both combatant craft at sea and waterborne threats to ships pier-side. Extended Homeland Defense. Homeland defense relies on many of the elements that will make SEA SHIELD effective in a forward battlefield environment, such as expanded sensor coverage, increased situational awareness by networking, and rapidly deployable defensive assets and weapon systems. Sharing information with other services and agencies will extend the security boundaries of the United States far seaward, using the time and space afforded by naval forces to shield our nation from impending threats. In close coordination with Northern Command, naval forces will establish comprehensive maritime domain awareness, to include the tracking of surface vessels, aircraft, and subsurface units approaching the United States. Interagency communication reach-back systems will send the latest intelligence to and from naval assets. This will integrate afloat forces into joint, interagency, and civil efforts to a far greater degree than today, providing the situational awareness, agility, and timeliness so vital to countering terrorist threats. Key homeland defense assets in years ahead will include ballistic missile defense ships, U.S. Coast Guard Deepwater units, the new Multi-Mission Aircraft, and the Broad Area Maritime Surveillance UAV that will provide long-dwell coverage of very large areas of the ocean because of its high-resolution sensors and unprecedented flight endurance. The Chief of Naval Operations has tasked Commander, Third Fleet, to work in concert with Commander, Seventh Fleet, to accelerate the development of all facets of SEA SHIELD. </span>__Yesterday's Navy defended itself and the sea lines of communication. Tomorrow's Navy will do much more. **It will provide assured access for joint power projection forces** in an environment where threats increasingly hold land bases at risk. It will protect friends and partners from enemies armed with an array of advanced and deadly weapons. And it will provide the first, critical layer of defense against asymmetric threats to the U.S. homeland__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. SEA SHIELD will extend homeland defense, sustain access to contested littorals, and project security deep inland. In short, SEA SHIELD will provide the capabilities needed for the United States </span>**__to deter, dissuade, and decisively defeat adversaries in the decades ahead, providing stability and security__** __in an uncertain century__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Specifically, __China__ – loss of access ensures takeover of Taiwan
**__Sollenberger, et al. ‘10__** (Matthew Sollenberger, M.A. student at the Johns Hopkins University, SAIS, B.A. political science with high honors, Swarthmore College; Thilo Schroeter, M.A. student at the Johns Hopkins University SAIS Bologna Center, B.A. International Relations, Dresden University of Technology; Bastiaan Verink, M.A. student at the Johns Hopkins University SAIS Bologna Center, LL.M. International Security with honors, VU University Amsterdam, B.A. International Relations and Economics, Utrecht University; “Challenging US Command of the Commons: Evolving Chinese defense technologies as a threat to American hegemony?” Bologna Center Journal for International Affairs, vol. 13, Spring 2010, http://bcjournal.org/volume-13/challenging-us-command-of-the-commons.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Development of anti-access measures </span>**__China is aware that, in order to be successful in a military confrontation over Taiwan, it must prevent the US from entering the conflict__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> or at least degrade the size and effectiveness of a projected US military intervention.26 </span>__In view of the US military’s superiority, **China has developed anti-access measures which have “the effect of slowing the deployment of friendly forces into a theater, preventing them from operating**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> from certain locations within that theater, or causing them to operate from distances farther from the locus of conflict than they would normally prefer.”27 Chinese anti-access measures focus strongly on US air power. Command of the air has been one of the cornerstones of US military superiority in the post-cold war era, a fact that became most evident to China during the Taiwan Strait crisis of 1995-1996.28 Parallel to its long-term effort to modernize its air force and other air defense capacities, </span>__China has invested significant resources to develop anti-access measures to prevent the deployment of US naval and land-based air power in a potential conflict with Taiwan__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.29 Conventional ballistic missiles </span>__China has sharply increased its capacity to attack US air bases in the region__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, particularly in Okinawa.30 China has been modernizing its fleet of fighter-bombers and arsenal of cruise missiles, but these systems continue to be vulnerable to more advanced US and Japanese fighter aircraft, supported by ground and air-based early warning systems. However, an attack by ballistic missiles can only be countered by anti-ballistic missile (ABM) systems.31 Although these systems offer a certain degree of protection against ballistic missile attacks, a completely successful defense against a surprise attack with ballistic missiles is highly unlikely.32 While ballistic missiles are not effective at destroying aircraft in hardened aircraft shelters, they can destroy large, high-value aircraft such as AWACS and tanker aircraft too large for normal shelters. Furthermore, ballistic missiles can destroy runways with sub- munitions and thus leave the paralyzed air bases vulnerable to follow-on attacks.33 China has been deploying the DF-21C, a conventionally armed medium range ballistic missile (MRBM), since 2004-2005.34 Using this missile, PLA forces could attack US airbases in Okinawa, South Korea, and mainland Japan. Currently, hardened aircraft shelters are available only at four US air bases in the region. The base closest to the Taiwan Strait, Kadena Air Base on Okinawa, has only 15 hardened aircraft shelters, leaving most of the 190 aircraft likely to be deployed in a crisis vulnerable to attacks.35 Unless additional hardened aircraft shelters are constructed, effective ABM systems are deployed, and damage control capacities are strengthened, the deployment of Chinese MRBMs will make dispersal and basing at a greater distance necessary to avoid the risk of a crippling strike against US land-based air power.36 Anti-ship ballistic missiles </span>__China is also strengthening its ability to attack US aircraft carriers at long distances using **anti-ship ballistic missiles** (ASBM)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Since the mid-90s, China has modernized its submarine force, deployed anti-ship cruise missiles on its ships, and introduced modern Russian fighter-bombers equipped with anti-ship missiles.37 However, all of these weapon systems are constrained by their limited range and limited ability to penetrate the protection afforded by the anti-submarine warfare and anti-air warfare capacities of US carrier strike groups.38 In contrast, </span>__ASBMs **have the potential to destroy US carriers before they even enter the theater of operations around Taiwan – a potential “game-changer” in a military conflict**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.39 Based on a survey of Chinese technical and doctrinal publications, a number of US non-profit and government institutions claim that China has had significant success in its pursuit of an ASBM capacity. Although there has been no official acknowledgment by Chinese authorities, nor any known test of ASBM assets, an initial capacity is estimated to be available in 2010.40 The Chinese ASBM capacity is based on the existing DF-21 class of medium-range ballistic missiles with a range of 1,500–2,000 km.41 The first anti-ship variant of this missile will likely have a comparable range, while future models may use “boost-glide trajectory” capabilities to allow ranges of 3,000–8,000 km by 2020.42 Targeting data for ASBM launches could be provided by over-the-horizon (OTH) radar systems and different types of satellites. China already operates an OTH radar with a range of up to 3,000 km, allowing it to monitor ship movements in a wide arc between Japan and the Philippines.43 China is also developing satellites that can detect carriers using synthetic aperture radar (SAR) or by tracking their electronic emissions.44 Once an ASBM is launched against the approximate position of an aircraft carrier, an onboard SAR system would provide mid-course guidance from an altitude of around 80 km to the missile’s maneuverable reentry vehicle (MARV).45 In order to specifically target and destroy key carrier infrastructure, including “carrier-borne planes, the control tower and other easily damaged and vital positions,”46 terminal guidance to the conventional warheads would be provided by a combination of millimeter wave radar and infrared seekers.47 </span>__The consequences of this development are significant. ASBMs offer an unprecedented and relatively low cost surgical strike capability against aircraft carriers, to which there are only limited and risky countermeasures available. **Because of the precision of ASBM warheads, it is not necessary to sink an aircraft carrier to achieve a “mission kill,” allowing China to strike at carriers while avoiding the risk of escalation**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that would most certainly incorporate the sinking of an aircraft carrier and the resulting deaths of up to 5,000 US sailors.48 Additionally, ASBM systems appear to be both effective and highly cost-efficient: assuming a relatively low success rate of 25%, only 4 ASBMs, costing between 40 and 80 million USD in total, would suffice to disable a US aircraft carrier. 49 </span>__Countermeasures to ASBMs are either limited in their effectiveness or bear risks of escalation__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Direct defense is hard to achieve, given the extremely high speed of ASBMs and the ability to use mid-course maneuvers to change the trajectory. A further disadvantage for a ship defending against an ASBM attack is the limited number of ABM missiles carried onboard. So far, only 75 SM-3 ABMs, to be carried by 18 destroyers and cruisers, have been ordered for the US Navy.50 If a carrier is augmented with two ships carrying six SM-3 each, only 12 ASBMs could currently be defended against in a best-case scenario, as reloading at sea is not possible.51 While defense against ASBMs in flight is difficult, preemptive attacks against the launch platforms and C4ISR infrastructure are risky alternatives. To destroy the mobile launchers, which could be stationed throughout much of Eastern China, or the supporting radar systems, air strikes might be necessary against targets over 1,000 km inland. However, executing such attacks against the depth of the Chinese mainland would be a difficult and highly escalatory option. When Chinese ASBMs become effective to a range of 2,000 km, US carriers might have to operate at distances far from Taiwan and the Chinese mainland, such that carrier-based fighters such as the F/A-18 or the future Joint Strike Fighter could hardly enter the fight.52 Using ballistic missiles against US naval and land-based air power, China can substantially reduce the volume of air power available to the US to deter or repel Chinese military action against Taiwan. The 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review acknowledges the threat posed inter alia by Chinese ballistic missiles and has suggested an increased reliance on submarine-based weapons, development of armed naval UAVs and new cruise missiles for long-range strikes, as well as strengthened active and passive defenses for overseas US air bases.53 However, </span>**__until the US has fielded__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> these and other </span>**__effective countermeasures to the Chinese ballistic missile threat, China’s anti-access strategy may be successful in deterring US intervention in a military conflict over Taiwan__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Triggers multiple scenarios for Asian conflicts
**__Mazza ‘11__** (Michael Mazza, senior research associate in Asian Studies in the Foreign and Defense Policy Studies department at the American Enterprise Institute, former policy analyst assistant at SAIC, has lived and studied in China, M.A.s in Strategic Studies and International Economics from the Johns Hopkins University Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa at Cornell University, “Why Taiwan Matters,” The Diplomat, 3-8-2011, http://www.aei.org/article/103283)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Indeed, </span><span class="Underline">Washington's mistake is in not taking a clear side in the cross-Strait dispute</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The United States should be more vigorously supporting its long-time democratic friend and partner. </span><span class="Underline">There are clear strategic reasons for doing so--reasons that are only growing in importance</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">Not least of these is the increasing importance for the U</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span><span class="Underline">to been seen as both a reliable friend and a supporter of democratization. </span>**__As China rises__**<span class="Underline"> and puts </span>**__increasing pressure on__**<span class="Underline"> its neighbours</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">--many of whom are </span>**__US allies--it's essential that those allies consider the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__to be a dependable security partner__**<span class="Underline">. </span>**__Without that assurance, the region is more likely to descend into__**<span class="Underline"> unwanted and unnecessary </span>**__arms races__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, as countries work on their own to balance China and potentially each other as their military might grows. </span><span class="Underline">Moreover, Taiwan's continued existence as an independent, democratic state--and US support for it--can provide succour for liberals in China, who want representative government for their own country</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Since the end of World War II, Americans have found that the spread of liberal democracy in Asia has benefitted their interests. An imposed reversal of liberalization in Taiwan would benefit no one but the Chinese Communist Party. From an American point of view, </span><span class="Underline">there is</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, of course, </span><span class="Underline">a military-strategic imperative as well for Taiwan's continued de facto independence. </span>**__An annexed Taiwan almost certainly becomes a militarized Taiwan, home to both PLA air and naval bases__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For China, the benefits of such bases are threefold. First, in the event of conflict in East Asia, the 'unsinkable aircraft carrier,' as Douglas MacArthur referred to Taiwan, will provide mainland China with strategic depth that it currently lacks. </span>**__Any US forces steaming into the region will have to contend with__**<span class="Underline"> Chinese military </span>**__aircraft and naval vessels operating from Taiwan__**<span class="Underline">. Neutralization of bases on the island will likely be necessary prior to pursuing other primary objectives</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, thus complicating US calculations and military planning. Second, </span>**__an annexed Taiwan will allow China to easily threaten Japan's southern flank__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, including US bases on Okinawa. </span>**__Clashing strategic, economic, and nationalistic interests foreshadow a more antagonistic future for Sino-Japanese relations__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and while Japan has foresworn the use of violence to settle international disputes, China most certainly hasn't. </span><span class="Underline">It will be much more difficult for Japan to defend itself--and for the U</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span><span class="Underline">to defend its ally--if the islands face PLA threats emanating from Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, from China's east coast, and, perhaps one day, from the east coast of North Korea. Finally, control of Taiwan will enable the PLA to more easily exert control over the Luzon Strait, the waterway connecting the South China Sea and the Philippine Sea. Control of the Strait is necessary for China to achieve its dual goals of enforcing its claims to sovereignty over the South China Sea and of keeping foreign military forces out of that body of water. Control of Taiwan and the Luzon Strait, moreover, will for the first time grant the PLA Navy easy access to the Philippine Sea and the Pacific Ocean beyond, providing China even greater strategic depth and, for the first time since 1941, allowing an Asian power to threaten Guam and Hawaii. </span><span class="Underline">Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> isn't a relic of the Cold War. Rather, it </span><span class="Underline">is situated at the geographic forefront of the strategic competition</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that very well may define the 21st century--that </span><span class="Underline">between the U</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span><span class="Underline">and China</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The United States has long pursued a policy in Asia in which it provides security while promoting economic and political liberalization. The Taiwan of today is in many ways a fruit of that policy. </span><span class="Underline">Washington would soon regret any decision to drop its support for Taiwan and allow mainland China to annex the island nation. </span>**__Only by__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> continuing to nurture its relationship with Taipei and by </span>**__continuing to steel the island against threats from the mainland can the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__hope to ensure continued peace in Asia__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

Most probable scenario for escalation to nuclear war
**__Landy 2K__** (Jonathon Landy, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, l/n)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But </span>**__even a minor miscalculation__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> by any of them </span>**__could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy, and__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> even </span>**__start a nuclear war__**__. **India, Pakistan, and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea** may have a few, **too**. **Asia lacks the** kinds of **organizations**, negotiations, **and diplomatic relationships that helped keep** an uneasy **peace** for five decades **in** Cold War **Europe**. “**Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. “We see </span>__the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In an effort to cool the region’s tempers, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger all will hopscotch Asia’s capitals this month. For America, the stakes could hardly be higher. There are 100,000 U.S. troops in Asia committed to defending Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, and </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>__would instantly become embroiled__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> if Beijing moved against Taiwan or North Korea attacked South Korea. While Washington has no defense commitments to either India or Pakistan, </span>__a conflict__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> between the two </span>__could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


Second is __Nuclear Command and Control__

Entanglement and intervention in future conflicts is inevitable – the effectiveness of nuclear command and control will determine whether they escalate to nuclear use
**__Lieber and Press ‘9__** (Keir A. Lieber, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University’s Edmund A.Walsh School of Foreign Service; Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, "The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent," Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec 2009, [[http://www.afa.org/Edop/PDFs/Nukes_We_Need_Lieber&Press.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The success of nuclear deterrence may turn out to be its own undoing. Nuclear weapons helped keep the peace in Europe throughout the Cold War, preventing the bitter dispute from engulfing the continent in another catastrophic conflict. But after nearly 65 years without a major war or a nuclear attack, many prominent statesmen, scholars, and analysts have begun to take deterrence for granted. They are now calling for a major drawdown of the U.S. nuclear arsenal and a new commitment to pursue a world without these weapons.</span> Unfortunately, **__deterrence in the twenty-first century may be far more difficult for the U__**nited **__S__**tates **__than it was in the past__**__, and having the right mix of nuclear capabilities to deal with the new challenges will be crucial. **The U**__nited **__S__**tates **__leads a global network of alliances, a position that commits Washington to protecting countries all over the world__**__. **Many of its potential adversaries have acquired, or appear to be seeking, nuclear weapons**. **Unless the world’s major disputes are resolved—for example, on the Korean Peninsula, across the Taiwan Strait, and around the Persian Gulf**__—or the U.S. military pulls back from these regions, **__the U__**nited **__S__**tates **__will sooner or later find itself embroiled in conventional wars with nuclear-armed adversaries__**__. **Preventing escalation in those circumstances will be far more difficult than peacetime deterrence**__ during the Cold War. In a conventional war, U.S. adversaries would have powerful incentives to brandish or use nuclear weapons because their lives, their families, and the survival of their regimes would be at stake. Therefore, __as the U__nited __S__tates __considers the future of its nuclear arsenal, it should judge its force not against the relatively easy mission of peacetime deterrence but against the demanding mission of deterring escalation during a conventional conflict, when U.S. enemies are fighting for their lives__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Debating the future of the U.S. nuclear arsenal is critical now because the Obama administration has pledged to pursue steep cuts in the force and has launched a major review of U.S. nuclear policy. (The results will be reported to Congress in February 2010.) The administration’s desire to shrink the U.S. arsenal is understandable. Although the force is only one-fourth the size it was when the Cold War ended, it still includes roughly 2,200 operational strategic warheads—more than enough to retaliate against any conceivable nuclear attack. Furthermore, as we previously argued in these pages (“The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy,” March/April 2006), the current U.S. arsenal is vastly more capable than its Cold War predecessor, particularly in the area of “counterforce”—the ability to destroy an adversary’s nuclear weapons before they can be used. Simply counting U.S. warheads or measuring Washington’s counterforce capabilities will not, however, reveal what type of arsenal is needed for deterrence in the twenty-first century. The only way to determine that is to work through the grim logic of deterrence: to consider what actions will need to be deterred, what threats will need to be issued, and what capabilities will be needed to back up those threats. The Obama administration is right that the United States can safely cut its nuclear arsenal, but it must pay careful attention to the capabilities it retains. During a war, if a desperate adversary were to use its nuclear force to try to coerce the United States—for example, by threatening a U.S. ally or even by launching nuclear strikes against U.S. overseas bases—an arsenal comprised solely of high-yield weapons would leave U.S. leaders with terrible retaliatory options.</span> __Destroying Pyongyang or Tehran in response to a limited strike would be vastly disproportionate, and doing so might trigger further nuclear attacks in return. A deterrent posture based on such a dubious threat would lack credibility. Instead, a credible deterrent should give U.S. leaders a range of retaliatory options, including the ability to respond to nuclear attacks with either conventional or nuclear strikes, to retaliate with strikes against an enemy’s nuclear forces rather than its cities, and to minimize casualties. **The foundation for this flexible deterrent exists. The current U.S. arsenal includes a mix of accurate high- and low-yield warheads, offering** a wide range of retaliatory options—including **the ability to launch precise, very low-casualty nuclear counterforce strikes**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The United States must preserve that mix of capabilities—especially the low-yield weapons—as it cuts the size of its nuclear force. deterrence in dark times The primary purpose of U.S. nuclear forces is to deter nuclear attacks on the United States and its allies. During peacetime, this is not a demanding mission. The chance that leaders in Beijing, Moscow, or even Pyongyang will launch a surprise nuclear attack tomorrow is vanishingly small. But peacetime deterrence is not the proper yardstick for measuring the adequacy of U.S. nuclear forces. Rather, the United States’ arsenal should be designed to provide robust deterrence in the most difficult of plausible circumstances: during a conventional war against a nuclear-armed adversary. </span>**__In the coming decades, the U__**nited **__S__**tates **__may find itself facing nuclear-armed states on the battlefield. U.S. alliances span the globe, and the U__**nited **__S__**tates **__is frequently drawn into regional conflicts__**. Washington has launched six major military operations since the fall of the Berlin Wall: __in Panama, Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and twice in Iraq. Furthermore, **most**__ of the United States’ **__potential adversaries have developed__**__—or seem to be developing—**nuclear weapons**__. Aside from terrorism, **__the threats that dominate U.S. military planning come from China, North Korea, and Iran__**__: two members of the nuclear club, and one intent on joining it__. __The central problem for U.S. deterrence in the future is that **even rational adversaries will have powerful incentives to introduce nuclear weapons**—that is, threaten to use them, put them on alert, test them, or even use them—**during a conventional war against the U**__nited **__S__**tates. __If U.S. military forces begin to prevail on the battlefield, U.S. adversaries may use nuclear threats to compel a cease-fire or deny the U__nited __S__tates __access to allied military bases__. Such threats might succeed in pressuring the United States to settle the conflict short of a decisive victory. __Such escalatory strategies are rational. Losing a conventional war to the U__nited __S__tates __would be a disastrous outcome for any leader, and it would be worth taking great risks to force a cease-fire and avert total defeat__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The fate of recent U.S. adversaries is revealing. The ex-dictator of Panama, Manuel Noriega, remains in a Miami prison. The former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, awaits trial in The Hague, where Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic died in detention three years ago.Saddam Hussein’s punishment for losing the 2003 war was total: his government was toppled, his sons were killed, and he was hanged on a dimly lit gallows, surrounded by enemies. Even those leaders who have eluded the United States—such as the Somali warlord Muhammad Farah Aidid and Osama bin Laden—have done so despite intense U.S. efforts to capture or kill them.</span> __The **U**__nited **__S__**tates’ **__overseas conflicts are limited wars only from the U.S. perspective; to adversaries, they are existential. It should not be surprising if they use every weapon at their disposal to stave off total defeat__**. __Coercive nuclear escalation may sound like a far-fetched strategy, but it was nato’s policy during much of the Cold War__. The Western allies felt that they were hopelessly outgunned in Europe at the conventional level by the Warsaw Pact. Even though nato harbored little hope of prevailing in a nuclear war, it planned to initiate a series of escalating nuclear operations at the outbreak of war—alerts, tactical nuclear strikes, and wider nuclear attacks—to force the Soviets to accept a cease-fire. __The U__nited __S__tates’ **__future adversaries face the same basic problem today: vast conventional military inferiority__**. They may adopt the same solution. __Leaders in Beijing may choose gradual, coercive escalation if they face imminent military defeat in the Taiwan Strait—a loss that could weaken the Chinese Communist Party’s grip on power. And if U.S. military forces were advancing toward Pyongyang, there is no reason to expect that North Korean leaders would keep their nuclear weapons on the sidelines__. Layered on top of these challenges are two additional ones. First, __U.S. conventional military doctrine is inherently escalatory. The new American way of war involves launching simultaneous air and ground attacks throughout the theater to blind, confuse, and overwhelm the enemy__. Even if the United States decided to leave the adversary’s leaders in power (stopping short of regime change so as to prevent the confrontation from escalating), how would Washington credibly convey the assurance that it was not seeking regime change once its adversary was blinded by attacks on its radar and communication systems and command bunkers? __A central strategic puzzle of modern war is that **the tactics best suited to dominating the conventional battlefield are the same ones most likely to trigger nuclear escalation**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Furthermore, managing complex military operations to prevent escalation is always difficult. In 1991, in the lead-up to the Persian Gulf War, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker assured Iraq’s foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, that the United States would leave Saddam’s regime in power as long as Iraq did not use its chemical or biological weapons. But despite Baker’s assurance, the U.S. military unleashed a major bombing campaign targeting Iraq’s leaders, which on at least one occasion nearly killed Saddam. The political intent to control escalation was not reflected in the military operations, which nearly achieved a regime change.</span> __In future confrontations with nuclear-armed adversaries, the U__nited __S__tates __will undoubtedly want to prevent nuclear escalation. But the leaders of U.S. adversaries will face life-and-death incentives to use their nuclear arsenals to force a cease-fire and remain in power__. the case for counterforce **__If the U__**nited **__S__**tates **__hopes to deter nuclear attacks during conventional wars, it must figure out how it might respond to such attacks, and it must retain the nuclear forces to do so__**__. **The most horrific retaliatory threat** that the U__nited __S__tates __might issue—**to destroy cities** if enemy leaders brandish or use nuclear weapons—**is a poor foundation for deterrence**. First, **this threat lacks credibility**. Destroying cities would be a vastly disproportionate response if an enemy used nuclear weapons against a purely military target, such as a U.S. carrier group at sea or even a U.S. base located away from a major city__ (such as the U.S. airfields on Guam or Okinawa).During recent wars, the United States has labored to minimize enemy civilian casualties. It is hard to believe that Washington would reverse course and intentionally slaughter hundreds of thousands of civilians, especially if no U.S. or allied city has been destroyed. **__Moreover__**__, a retaliatory strike on an enemy city would not even achieve critical military objectives, so **the horrendous consequences would be inflicted for little purpose**. If an enemy used nuclear weapons, the most pressing U.S. objective would be to prevent further nuclear attacks. Destroying one of the enemy’s cities—even its capital—would neither eliminate its nuclear forces nor even necessarily kill its leaders__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Nor could the United States respond to an enemy’s limited nuclear strike simply by marching to its capital city to capture and hang its leaders; that would leave time for more strikes on allies’ cities.</span> __In such a crisis, the__ __U__nited __S__tates __would need to stop the enemy’s nuclear attacks immediately__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Of course, no one knows how a U.S. president would respond in such dark circumstances. It is possible that the United States would retaliate by attacking enemy cities—fear or anger might prevail over reason. But that mere possibility is a perilous foundation for deterrence.</span> **__A credible deterrent must give U.S. leaders acceptable options in the event an enemy were to use nuclear weapons__**. An arsenal that can only destroy cities fails that test. **__The least bad option in the face of explicit nuclear threats__** __or after a limited nuclear strike **may be a counterforce attack to prevent further nuclear use**__. A counterforce strike could be conducted with either conventional or nuclear weapons, or a mix of the two. **__The attack could be limited to the enemy’s nuclear delivery systems__**__—for example, its bombers and missile silos—**or** a wider range of **sites related to its nuclear program**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Ideally, a U.S. counterforce strike would completely destroy the enemy’s nuclear forces. But if an adversary had already launched a nuclear attack against the United States or its allies, a response that greatly reduced the adversary’s nuclear force could save countless lives, and it could open the door to decisive military actions (such as conquest and regime change) to punish the enemy’s leadership for using nuclear weapons.</span>

Nuclear forces are currently unable to communicate with command during war – lack of AEHF capability is the only roadblock
**__Wood ‘10__** (Jason D. Wood, Policy Analyst with Science Applications International Corporation, working in support of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency’s Advanced Systems and Concepts Office, former Research Associate at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, M.S. with distinction and Earhart Foundation Fellow, Missouri State University’s Graduate Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, “Strategic Security: Toward an Integrated Nuclear, Space, and Cyber Policy Framework,” paper presented at the 2010 Nuclear Scholars Initiative, http://csis.org/files/publication/110916_Wood.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">One area where this synchronization is clearly lacking is space support to the nuclear mission. </span>__Nearly **a decade ago, the** U.S. **Air Force began development of** the Family of Aerial Beyond-line-of-sight **Terminals** (FAB-T) **to connect** U.S. strategic **nuclear bombers with the forthcoming** Advanced Extremely High Frequency (**AEHF**) system, **the next generation of nuclear command and control satellites**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As detailed in a recent command and control trade journal, “</span>**__in a nuclear war, ground antennas would be knocked out, the U.S. president would take to the air in a mobile command post__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (E-4B), </span>**__and__** __FAB-T **computers on the bombers would become the president’s last link to the bombers**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” </span>**__Currently, the president does not have that type of air-to-air satellite link, because U.S. strategic bombers do not carry Milstar terminals – the forerunner to AEHF__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.28</span>

These protected communications are essential to deter aggression and prevent escalation of nuclear crises
**__DoD ‘11__** (Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs, U.S. Department of Defense, Chapter 4: Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications System, Nuclear Matters Handbook, Expanded Edition, 2011, http://www.acq.osd.mil/ncbdp/nm/nm_book_5_11/chapter_4.htm)
**__The U.S. nuclear command, control, and communications system__** __refers to the collection of activities, processes, and procedures performed by appropriate military commanders and support personnel that—through the chain of command—allow for senior-level decisions on nuclear weapons employment to be made based on relevant information and subsequently allow for those decisions to be communicated to forces for execution__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.[1] </span>__The nuclear C3 **(NC3) system is an essential element to ensure crisis stability, deter attack against the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__and its allies, and maintain the__** __safety, security, and **effectiveness of the U.S. nuclear deterrent**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The purpose of the nuclear C3 system is to provide the president with the means to authorize the use of nuclear weapons in a crisis and to prevent unauthorized or accidental use. The former is accomplished through the assets of the nuclear C3 system, managed by the Military Services, nuclear force commanders, and the defense agencies. (For more information on the prevention of unauthorized or accidental use, see Chapter 5: Nuclear Safety and Security.) 4.2 Nuclear Command and Control </span>**__Nuclear command and control__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (C2)—</span>__or the exercise of authority and direction by the president through established command lines over nuclear weapons operations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, as the Chief Executive over all nuclear weapon activities that support those operations, and as the Head of State over required multinational actions that support those operations—</span>**__is provided through a survivable “thin line” of communications and warning systems that ensure dedicated connectivity from the president to all nuclear-capable forces__**__. **The fundamental requirements of nuclear C2 are paramount; nuclear C2 must be assured, timely, secure, survivable, and enduring in providing the information and communications for the president to make and communicate critical decisions** without being constrained by limitations in the systems__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, the people, or the procedures that make up the full nuclear C3 system. The president’s ability to exercise these authorities is ensured by the Nuclear Command and Control System (NCCS)—the facilities, equipment, communications, procedures, and personnel that are essential for supporting the president’s nuclear C2. The NCCS is an interagency system that includes stakeholders from the White House, the Department of Defense (DoD), the Department of State (DOS), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DOJ)/Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of Energy (DOE), and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The DoD has been directed to ensure that the C2 architecture for the nuclear deterrent can serve as the core component of a broader national command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence system supporting the president. Because the NCCS is an interagency system, this chapter will use </span>**__the__** __term **nuclear C3 system**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to </span>__refer to the DoD portion of the NCCS that **would be used in responding to a nuclear crisis**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.[2]</span>

Specifically, rapid AEHF deployment is critical to ensure bombers on nuclear missions can be recalled
**__Hodges ‘10__** (Jim Hodges, “Out of Sync,” C4ISR Journal, 7-1-2010, http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=4640624)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">When defense officials outlined the user equipment for AEHF, they decided on software upgrades to the SMART-T and Navy terminals. The Air Force is developing the Minuteman Minimum Essential Emergency Communications Network upgrade for ground use. But </span>**__the new AEHF satellite offered__** __something else: **An opportunity to develop a radiation-hardened, aircraft-qualified terminal to provide faster voice and data transmission to the bombers and** RC-135 intelligence planes and__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, after that, </span>__to the E-4B, **the converted** Boeing **747 that would serve as a mobile command post for the national command authority in a nuclear war**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. A FAB-T terminal eventually would be installed on the Navy’s E-6B, an airborne command post and communications center. The E-4s and E-6s have Milstar terminals, but the bombers do not. **“**</span>**__You need to know that if you send a B-2 on a nuclear mission, and it comes time to recall it, that you can reach out anywhere in the world and deliver that message__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” Warburton said. The Air Force established that as a priority: “Several years ago, it was determined that </span>**__the most critical need was for survivable communications for the nuclear force elements__**__, airborne and ground command posts **and AEHF satellite control**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” Davis said. In 2003, Boeing won a $273 million, six–year design and development contract to produce FAB-T. It would use layered and open architecture and a software-defined-radio approach with an eye to future technology development. “For instance, externally developed components can be used with the same core hardware/software, and that enables platforms like the B-2 to develop their own antenna and operate interface, per its own needs and still be linked to the FAB-T core,” Davis said. “The architecture employs common modules along the terminal configurations, simplifying the logistics effort for the enterprise.” </span>**__But__** __since 2003, **engineering changes** related to both hardware and software **have more than trebled development costs and delayed production**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, according to GAO’s October report. In a March report, “Assessment of Major Weapons Programs,” </span>**__GAO warns__** __that the **troubles might not be over**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Air Force FAB-T office “continues to monitor two areas — certification by the National Security Agency and software development — that could cause cost increases and schedule delays,” according to the report. FAB-T designers have had to increase the amount of software code by about 8 percent over the last year, and software costs have risen by 12 percent, according to the report. Warburton, who has been on the program less than two years, spoke of the difficulty involved in development. “The government has set up a set of requirements to provide a set of terminals that are hardened” — meaning engineered to resist nuclear radiation — “for the nuclear control mission, which is a lot tougher than delivering nonhardened terminals,” he said. “And, by the way, they must be secure all the way up through top secret, because you can imagine that the nuclear command and control mission is classified all the way to the highest levels.” </span>

Recall capability uniquely controls signaling during crises – otherwise, pre-emptive deployments trigger escalation instead of restraint
**__Johnson, et al ‘9__** (Dana Johnson, senior analyst with the Northrop Grumman Analysis Center, study was commissioned by the Mitchell Institute for Airpower Studies, “Triad, Dyad, Monad? Shaping the Nuclear Force for the Future,” December, http://www.afa.org/mitchell/reports/MP5_Triad_1209.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Signaling alert/readiness changes: </span>**__An important element of stability is the capability to send signals during a crisis__**__. **Bombers are the most flexible tool** in this regard. Bombers can be used **to signal concern by** increasing alert levels, dispersing, or **flying to airborne alert orbit locations, but because of their slow flight speed (relative to missiles), they do not pose a serious threat of a surprise “bolt-from-the-blue” attack**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__Bombers can__** __also **be recalled once launched—a capability that missiles do not possess**.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> SSBNs can embark from their ports to increase the number of submarines on station—transmit- ting highly significant signals that alert levels (and concern) are increasing. Conversely, SSBNs on station can surface to show themselves or return to port, demonstrating that tensions have eased. Mobile ICBMs, like SSBNs, can also deploy from garrison to send signals, but ICBMs in silos have little capability in this regard. In all of these moves, </span>**__there is a delicate relationship between sending signals of resolve, thus enhancing deterrence, and positioning forces for a strike, thereby decreasing crisis stability__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

The impact is global WMD wars with Russia, China, North Korea, Iran, and Syria
**__Schneider ‘8__** (Dr. Mark Schneider, Senior Analyst at the National Institute for Public Policy, “The Future of the US Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy, 27(4), Jul-Sep 2008, EBSCOhost)
__Are there **actual existing threats to the survival of the U**nited **S**tates? The answer is unquestionably “yes.” **Both Russia and China have the nuclear potential** to destroy the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates (and our allies) </span>**__and are modernizing their forces with the objective of targeting the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates.4 </span>__China is also increasing the number of its nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.5 </span>__Russia is moving away from democracy, and China remains a Communist dictatorship. **A number of hostile dictatorships—North Korea, Iran, and** possibly **Syria—have** or are developing **longer-range missiles, as well as chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.6 </span>__They already have the ability **to launch devastating WMD attacks**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> against our allies and our forward deployed forces, and in time may acquire capabilities against the United States. Iran will probably have nuclear weapons within approximately 2 to 5 years.7 </span>__The U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>__already faces a chemical and biological weapons threat despite arms control prohibitions__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Due to arms control, we do not have an in-kind deterrent. Both Iranian and Syria acquisition of nuclear weapons could be affected by sales from North Korea, which have been reported in the press.8 Russian Modernization of Its Nuclear Triad From the start of his political career, Vladimir </span>__Putin moved Russia toward a greater emphasis on nuclear weapons and a decrease in its nuclear use threshold__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Russia explicitly reserves the right to use nuclear weapons in conventional war and is modernizing every element of its nuclear TRIAD__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.9 Then-Defense Minister (now First Deputy Prime Minister) Sergei Ivanov wrote in January 2006 that, “At the end of last year, we deployed another strategic missile regiment armed with silo-based Topol-M (SS-27) systems; more road mobile Topol-Ms (SS-X-27), currently unmatched by world rivals, this year; and the Project 955 Borei Yury Dolgoruky strategic nuclear-powered submarine armed with the Bulava-30 (SS-NX-30) sealaunched ballistic missiles within several years. And this is just the top of the list” (emphasis added).10 The rest of the list includes the KH-102 nuclear cruise missile, the Sineva SLBM, the RS-24 (a multiple independently targetable reentry vehicle (MIRV) SS-27) and recently the beginning of programs to build a newlarge liquid-fueled intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), a new stealth bomber and an air-launched cruise missile (ALCM) carrying Tu334.11 In 2006, Russia announced the construction of eight Borey class ballistic missile submarines carrying the Bulava-30.12 Russia plans to build 100 new silo and mobile Topol (SS-27) ICBMs and at MIRV.13 In May 2006 Yuriy Solomonov, the Director of Russia’s main missile design bureau, stated that, “By 2020 the number of warheads in the Russian missile-nuclear triad will be at least 2,000, and we will build the necessary number of complexes.”14 In July 2007 General Yuri Baluyevskiy, Chief of the General Staff, told the Duma that Russia would maintain “thousands” of nuclear weapons in 2010.15 In October 2007 Putin talked about the “grandiose” nature of Russia’s nuclear programs: “We shall pay attention not only to the entire nuclear triad, I mean the STM [Strategic Missile Troops], strategic aviation and nuclear submarines, but to other types of armaments as well. . . .Not only the Topols with multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles, but completely new systems—I would like to stress this. I have spoken about it many times, and the work continues, and it continues successfully.”16 Russian Nuclear Weapons Modernization There is no similarity between the objectives of the post-Cold War U.S. nuclear weapons program (“stockpile stewardship” and a recent decision to develop a small number of replacement designs that trade weight and yield-to-weight ratios for robustness, enhanced safety, and security but with no effort to enhance military capabilities)17 and the Russian program, which is designed to achieve major advances in nuclear weapons performance with the objective of improved warfighting capability. In September 2003, Lev Ryabev, Deputy Atomic Energy Minister, stated that young Russian scientists are “doing real things” with the goal of “keeping and improving of Russia’s nuclear arsenal.”18 In January 2005, Sergei Ivanov declared that, “We will develop, improve and deploy new types of nuclear weapons. We will make them more reliable and accurate”19 (emphasis added). He also revealed that, “</span>__New types of nuclear weapons are already emerging__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in Russia”20 (emphasis added). Viktor Mikhaylov, Russian’s Atomic Energy Minister under Yeltsin, publicly supported the modernization of all types of nuclear weapons from “megaton class” to “lowand super-lowyield nuclear weapons and precision weapons with nuclear warheads.”21 Apparently, that is just what the Russians did because after the April 29, 1999 Russian National Security Council meeting, then-Security Council Secretary Vladimir Putin said that the three Presidential decrees signed by Yeltsin “concern the development of the whole nuclear weapons complex and the endorsement of the concept of the development and use of strategic nuclear weapons”22 (emphasis added). A declassified CIA analysis dated May 4, 1999 stated that, “The Security Council Secretary Putin emphasized to journalists that the weapons covered by these decrees include tactical nuclear weapons” and that, “At a minimum the degrees point to a more robust tactical nuclear arsenal, suggesting Moscow is moving away from relying almost solely on strategic weapons for deterrence.”23 Unlike the United States, which would have transferred an existing nuclear weapon to a new ICBM if it had developed one, Nikol Voloshin, a senior official of the Ministry of Atomic Energy, revealed in June 2001 that work was nearing completion on a warhead for the Topol-M (SS-27), while “At the same time modernization is proceeding on the other warheads.”24 The SS-27 warhead is clearly a new design because as Colonel-General NikolayYevgenyevich Solovtsov and Lieutenant GeneralVitaliy Linnik, Head of Armament and Deputy Commander of Strategic Missile Troops both have stated, the SS-27 warhead has an “enhanced-yield charge” or “an increased yield.”25 The reported yield of the SS-27 is 800 kilotons, higher than the yield of Soviet era large-MIRV designs as stated by Russian generals and Duma members.26 The new warhead for the Bulava and the MIRVed version of the SS-27 are almost certainly high-performance ColdWar-type designs. Russian data provided under the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Treaty stated that the throw-weight for the six-warhead Bulava-30 (RSM-56) is much lower per warhead than any previous Soviet Cold War era missile and at least comparable to the best U.S. ColdWar design.27 Ivanov has characterized it as a “new warhead” and it is reported to be much lighter and about twice the yield as the best small Soviet Cold War design.28 To increase the yield of a thermonuclear weapon it is necessary to redesign the secondary. In addition, according to retired Lieutenant General Mikhail Vinogradov, the Russians are also redesigning the primaries: “Basically the mechanical and electronic assemblies of the design and the chemical explosive will undergo modernization.”29 The effect of this is what we would call a new weapon design and the focus is on enhancing military effectiveness. Russian nuclear weapons development has not been limited to increasing yield-toweight ratios. In November 1997, Viktor Mikhaylov, then-Atomic Energy Minister, stated that Russia was working on, “So-called nuclear weapons, which penetrate the ground before exploding. I must say that our developments here are at the highest level. . . .Right now we are standing firm.”30 In December 2002, he stated that, “The scientists are developing a nuclear ‘scalpel’ capable of ‘surgically removing’ and destroying very localized targets. The low-yield warhead will be surrounded with a superhardened casing which makes it possible to penetrate 30–40 meters into rock and destroy a buried target—for example, a troop command and control point or a nuclear munitions storage facility.”31 In August 2003 Mikhaylov revealed that, “Efforts to improve thermonuclear weapons continue even now in several countries, among them the United States and Russia. The range of such weapons that exist is quite broad. There are weapons in the megaton class, and weapons yielding hundreds of tons”32 (emphasis added). A declassified August 2000 CIA Intelligence Memorandum concluded that, “Judging from Russian writing since 1995 and Moscow’s evolving nuclear doctrine, new roles are emerging for very-low yield weapons—including weapons for tailored radiation outputs. . . .”33 (emphasis added). As reported by the Congressional EMP Commission, “</span>__China and Russia have considered limited nuclear attack options that__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, unlike Cold War plans, </span>__employ EMP as the primary__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> or sole </span>__means of attack__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.”34 On April 29, 1999, President Yeltsin reportedly ordered Russian development of precision lowyield nuclear weapons that could be used for strategic or tactical nuclear strikes. On May 6, 1999, the distinguished Russian defense analyst Pavel Felgengauer wrote that Russia was developing “precision low-yield” nuclear weapons for strikes “anywhere in the world” and included weapons with “from several tens of tons to 100 tons of TNT equivalent.”35 He added, “. . . existing strategic nuclear warheads are to be upgraded so that they can deliver strikes with a yield of hundreds tons of TNT, which is thousands of times weaker than their current megaton-range potential.”36 In September 2003, Lev Ryabev revealed that Russia was researching the use of conventional explosives to achieve nuclear fusion for defense purposes.37 A declassified CIA intelligence report dated August 30, 2000 stated that: “. . . Moscow’s military doctrine on the use of nuclear weapons has been evolving and probably has served as the justification for the development of very low yield, high precision nuclear weapons.”38 Col. Gen. V. N. Zaritskiy, Chief of Missile Troops and Artillery of the RF Armed Forces, wrote in May 2007 that, “The basic guidelines for. . . the Concept for the Use of Tactical Nuclear Weapons and the Concept of Effective Engagement, both developed in the late 1990s, as well as new official enforceable legal documents that were issued in 2004.”39 Russia has been engaged in a major propaganda campaign alleging that the United States is developing low-yield nuclear weapons. Yet Russian Deputy Chief of the General Staff General Alexander Rukshin, when announcing Russia’s new supposed super conventional bomb, confirmed that Russia has low yield nuclear weapons: “The new vacuum aviation bomb will allow us to replace a whole series of previously created low-yield nuclear tactical nuclear ordnance with a yield of no more than 5 kilotons, which can be employed on the battlefield”40 (emphasis added). Indeed, it had a “large number” of them.41 A declassified CIA intelligence report dated June 4, 1999 concluded that “The development of low-yield warheads that could be used on high-precision tactical weapons systems—long advocated by former Minister and now First Deputy Minister of Atomic Energy Mikhaylov—would be consistent with Russia’s increasing reliance on nuclear weapons to deter conventional as well as nuclear aggression. . . .”42 Russian Nuclear Testing After the Testing Moratorium Russia may still be conducting yield producing nuclear tests. In January 1999 Lev Ryabev, then-head of the Nuclear Energy Ministry’s Nuclear Munitions Development and Testing Department, said that so-called “subcritical” tests produce very small nuclear yield (i.e., 0.1 gram).43 The Russian press reported that PresidentYeltsin’s April 29, 1999 decree on nuclear weapons approved “hydronuclear field experiments.”44 Hydronuclear tests are designed to produce measurable nuclear yields and are inconsistent with a zero yield Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) or a zero yield moratorium. It is interesting that then-Russian First Deputy Minister for Nuclear Energy Viktor Mikhaylov wrote on April 29, 1999 about the importance of hydronuclear testing to maintaining the nuclear arsenal. He stated: “No state will be able to create nuclear weapons for the first time based solely on hydronuclear experiments. . . . But developed traditional nuclear powers can use hydronuclear experiments to perform tasks of improving reliability of their nuclear arsenal and effectively steward its operation. All countries indirectly gain here inasmuch as the risk of nuclear accidents is lowered . . . . Determining the limits of ‘authorized activity’ is no simple process and only professionals can direct it correctly.”45 In July 2001, Mikhaylov again stated that, “. . . the developed, traditional nuclear powers, using hydronuclear experiments, can perform the task of improving reliability of the nuclear arsenal and effectively track its operation while reducing the risk of possible accident.”46 These reports have high credibility. Numerous declassified, but unfortunately heavily redacted, Clinton administration CIA intelligence reports discussed possible Russian nuclear testing and whether it was related to the development of new warheads.47 One declassified CIA report concluded that hydronuclear (low-yield) experiments . . . are far more useful for Russian weapons development” than subcritical tests.48 At a minimum these reports indicate that the CIA took this possibility very seriously. Russian Nuclear Threats Against the U.S. and Our Allies With the rise of Putin, the idea of using nuclear weapons in limited war was given a boost. Senior Russian generals have talked about using them in exercises and in limited war.49 In 2007 Russia went beyond this. President Putin unleashed an unprecedented attack on the United Sates and its missile defense plans, which soon featured overt threats of nuclear attack. In February 2007, then-Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov told the Duma that, “As regard to use of nuclear weapons in case of aggression, of course [it will use them in this case]. What else were they built for?”50 He did not mention any of the caveats associated with official Russian nuclear use doctrine. A few days later Colonel-General Nikolay Solovtsov, Commander of the Strategic Missile Forces, made nuclear threats against Poland and the Czech Republic if they allow a small U.S. missile deployment.51 Despite U.S. protests against such inflammatory tactics, General Yury Baluyevskiy in April 2007 once again threatened to target U.S. missile defense facilities in Europe: “If we see that these facilities pose a threat to Russia, these targets will be included in the lists of our planners—strategic, nuclear or others. The latter is a technicality.”52 In August 2007, President Putin sought to intimidate the United States, Japan and NATO Europe by announcing that, “Combat alert has begun today. Twenty strategic missile carriers are taking part in it. The planes that have scrambled will be in the air for 20 hours with refueling and in interaction with the Navy.”53 This same tactic was again applied in October 2007 when Putin declared: “Analogous actions by the Soviet Union, when it deployed missiles in Cuba, prompted the Caribbean crisis.”54 One wonders what he would be doing if the United States did not have a nuclear deterrent. In perhaps the most militant statement in the history of the Russian Federation, General Baluyevskiy in January 2008 stated that “We do not intend to attack anyone. But all our partners must realize that for the protection of Russia and its allies, if necessary, the Armed Forces will be used, including preventively and with the use of nuclear weapons.”55 China’s Strategic Nuclear Buildup Communist China is rapidly building up its military forces in preparation for an attack on Taiwan on the assumption that it will have to fight the United States. China’s objectives go beyond this. The People’s Republic of China (PRC) reportedly suggested to U.S. Pacific Command (PACOM) Commander Adm. Timothy Keating that the Pacific be divided into spheres of influence.56 The official Chinese position is that it will suppress Taiwanese independence “at any cost”57 (emphasis added) which is understood to mean nuclear war.58 A 2003 Rand study concluded that, “the Chinese nuclear threat to the United States could evolve into a smaller version of the former Soviet Union.” 59 The November 2006 report of the Congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission noted that “China continues to make significant strides in modernizing and enlarging its missile forces. Currently there are at least 10 types of ballistic missile systems that are either operational or under development.”60 The comparable number for the United States is two, with no new strategic missile under development. There are numerous press reports that China will MIRV its strategic missiles. A May 2007 report on the Hong Kong press stated that “The JL-2 series missile currently has three models; i.e. the JL-2, JL-2I, JL-2II” and that “the submarine can fire 48 warheads—each carrying the bomb equivalent of tens of thousands of tons—at 48 primary targets, which is sufficient to inflict heavy losses in a large country.”61 There are many press reports coming out of Hong Kong of plans to MIRV the new ballistic missiles it is producing (DF-31, DF-31A, and the JL-2) and that as many as 576 nuclear warheads will be deployed on the Chinese missile submarine fleet which is only one leg of the PRC’s nuclear TRIAD.62 A December 2000 Indian press report, attributed to Indian intelligence, reported that Chinese scientists were modifying a ‘bus’ to “carry about eight small nuclear warheads.”63 On six submarines, this adds up to 576 warheads. Chinese Nuclear Weapons Modernization There is no similarity between the post-ColdWar U.S. “stockpile stewardship” program and Chinese nuclear weapons development. China conducted nuclear tests after the 1992 moratorium and is dramatically improving its nuclear weapons.64 Yu Min, described by Xinhua as the “architect of the country’s first H-bomb,” claims that China’s key nuclear capabilities are “on a par with the United States and the former Soviet Union.”65 Xue Bencheng, one of the most important scientists involved in the development of China’s neutron bomb, stated that the July 1996 Chinese nuclear test was “a great spanning leap” because it solved the problem of nuclear weapons miniaturization.66 China’s Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Zhan Wannian told the Commission that there will be “further upgrading, and further development [of Chinese nuclear weapons] from 2001 to 2009.”67 The 2005 Pentagon report on Chinese military power observed that, “Some People’s Liberation Army (PLA) theorists . . . might consider using high-attitude electromagnetic pulses (HEMP) in an unconventional attack, believing that the United States and other nations would not consider it as a use of force and a crossing of the nuclear threshold.”68 China’s nuclear weapons development has clearly benefited from espionage against the U.S. The House Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military Commercial Concerns with the People’s Republic of China, generally known as the Cox Committee, concluded that: “The PRC has stolen classified information on all of the United States’ most advanced thermonuclear warheads, and several of the associated reentry vehicles. . . .The stolen U.S. secrets have helped the PRC fabricate and successfully test modern strategic thermonuclear weapons. . . .The stolen information also includes classified design information for an enhanced radiation weapon (commonly known as the ‘neutron bomb’).”69 Anumber of highly redacted Clinton administration CIA intelligence reports on China’s nuclear weapons testing have been declassified. They provide significant information concerning Chinese development of tactical and strategic nuclear weapons: A nuclear test at Lop Nor in 1990 “may be related to development of a warhead for a Chinese short-range ballistic missile.”70 The National Intelligence Daily (NID) in 1993 stated that accelerated Chinese testing expected by 1996 may also be related to “tactical systems to be developed in the future.”71 In September 1995, the NID reported that, “China could be seeking to confirm the reliability of a nuclear artillery shell designed in advance of a nuclear test ban” in order to defend against Russian invasion or an amphibious landing.72 The device may have been a gun assembled uranium device.73 The Chinese nuclear tests in 1993 were driven “by its need to modernize its nuclear force, built largely using 1960 and 1970 technology.”74 The NID in 1993 stated that China planned seven nuclear tests including “testing for new SLBM and ICBMs warheads, by 1996. . . . ”75 In June 1994, the NID assessed that China was developing new nuclear weapons that “may use more advanced concepts such as aspherical primaries and possibly a type of IHE [Insensitive High Explosive].”76 In 1995 the NID judged that Chinese testing was also aimed at developing “a cruise missile warhead and may involve safety upgrades to existing systems.”77 A Chinese nuclear test planned for 1994 was aimed at “the completion of warhead development for new intercontinental and submarine launched ballistic missiles and the development of technologies to enhance confidence in warheads for an enduring stockpile under a nuclear test ban.”78 China may have continued covert low yield nuclear testing after its announced moratorium in 1996. The Cox report concluded that “nuclear tests related to development of the PRC’s next generation of thermonuclear warheads may be continuing at the PRC test site at Lop Non Nor.”79 In May 2006 Chinese Defense Today also reported possible “low yield nuclear tests” after the declared end of testing.80 Chinese Threats of Nuclear Attack Against the United States There have been recurrent threats from the Chinese military concerning their first use of nuclear weapons in a Taiwan scenario. For example, in July 2005, at an official briefing for journalists organized in part by the Chinese Government, Major General Zhu Chenghu, a Dean at China’s National Defense University, stated that, “If the American[s] draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons. . . .We Chinese will prepare ourselves for the destruction of all cities east of Xiam. Of course the American[s] will have to be prepared that hundreds of cities will be destroyed by the Chinese.”81 The PRC’s “no first use” of nuclear weapons is largely propaganda. In an interview with Chinese Major General Cai Yuqiu, Vice Principal of Nanjing Army Command College, published in Ta Kung Pao, an internet version of a PRC-owned daily newspaper, reported that, “Cai Yuqiu said that he really appreciated the four sentence fight principle by Mao Zedong, i.e., we will not attack unless we are attacked; if we are attacked, we will certainly counter-attack. As to whether we will use nuclear weapons first, the above principle can also be followed. If we have been repeatedly ‘attacked,’ then there should not be a limit for our counter-attack.”82 Writing in January 2005 Colonel Wen Shang-hsien of the Taiwanese military noted that after the year 2000 the PRC adopted a nuclear doctrine which allowed for a “a preemptive strike strategy” under which the PRC would use “its tactical nuclear weapons in regional wars if necessary.”83 The Failed Experiment: Arms Control For a century, Western nations have tried unsuccessfully to use arms control as a means of reducing the threat of war. Yet it fails essentially 100% of the time because the nations that create the need for it either don’t sign the relevant treaties or ignore them if they do. The appeal of arms control is that it permits thinking noble thoughts and embracing the illusion of free, effortless security. Yet the conceptual basis of arms control is flawed— it is analogous to the idea of fighting crime by reducing and eventually eliminating the police while signing agreements with the criminals. As President Reagan affirmed in 1982: “Simply collecting agreements will not bring peace. Agreements genuinely reinforce peace only when they are kept. Otherwise, we are building a paper castle that will be blown away by the winds of war.”84 Arms control violations are the norm rather than the exception. As President Reagan stated in a December 1985 report to the Congress, “The Administration’s most recent studies support its conclusion that there is a pattern of Soviet noncompliance. As documented in this and earlier reports, the Soviet Union has violated its legal commitments to the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty-1 Anti-Ballistic Missile (SALTI ABM) Treaty and Interim Agreement, the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963, the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention, the Geneva Protocol on ChemicalWeapons, and the Helsinki Final Act. In addition, the U.S.S.R. has likely violated provisions of the Threshold Test Ban Treaty.”85 Russian arms control violations did not stop with the demise of the Soviet Union. In addition to numerous violations of the START Treaty verification regime, Russia disregarded its legal obligation under START to eliminate at least 22 launchers for the SS-18 heavyICBMeach year until the final START level of 154 launchers was achieved.86 This is documented in Russia START Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) data, which show a reduction of only 6 launchers from January 1996 to July 1999.87 More recently, Putin’s Russia tested a MIRVed version of their SS-27 ICBM despite the fact that the START Treaty prohibits more than one warhead on this type of missile.88 All Russia did was to change its designator to the “RS-24.”89 This will increase the number of warheads on the Russian ICBM force by a factor of 3 to 6.90 Moreover, Russian 1991–1992 reciprocal Presidential commitments regarding tactical nuclear weapons reductions have not been honored. Russia has maintained a ColdWar-type tactical nuclear arsenal, including the type of weapons it agreed to eliminate completely— battlefield nuclear weapons and refraining from deploying weapons on naval vessels.91 Multilateral arms control has not prevented the proliferation of WMD to hostile states. Indeed, inNovember 2004, the Department of State characterized the situation with regard to the Non-proliferation Treaty as “A Crisis of Compliance.”92 In 2002 then-Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz revealed that there were 16 nations that had chemical weapons and at least 13 that had biological weapons.93 The state of current arms control violations is outlined in an excellent State Department report entitled “Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments.”94 It is being almost completely ignored by arms control enthusiasts. Despite the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Biological Weapons Convention, and the Chemical Weapons Convention: 1) North Korea has nuclear weapons (and may be selling them to Iran or Syria95), a large chemical arsenal and biological weapons; 2) Syria has a large chemical arsenal and possibly biological weapons and there are recent indications of nuclear weapons development; and 3) Iran is attempting to obtain nuclear warheads and probably has chemical weapons.96 Admiral Lowell Jacoby, then-Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, told the Senate Armed Services Committee in 2005 that irrespective of the outcome of the current Six Party negotiations “we judge that Kim is not likely to surrender all his nuclear weapons capabilities.”97 Inspection regimes are not substitutes for compliance and response to violations. Inspections themselves have serious limitations. Even after the defeat and occupation of Iraq, we can’t definitively determine what happened to a large quantity of Saddam Hussein’s WMD, despite the ability to go anywhere any time and after obtaining millions of documents. What then can we expect from a handful of inspectors with limited inspection rights literally under the guns of dictatorial regimes? Multilateral inspection regimes are even worse because of the politics of these agencies and the presence of agents of the dictatorships in their bureaucracies. In light of what we now know about nuclear EMP effects, how can one possibly assume that hostile states will not hide a small number of these warheads and use them at a time of their choosing? According to the Pentagon’s Quadrennial Defense Review, the United States must maintain a “robust nuclear deterrent, which remains a keystone of U.S. national power.”98 The reason should be self evident—</span>**__without a nuclear deterrent the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__could be destroyed__** __as an industrial civilization and our conventional forces could be defeated by a state with grossly inferior conventional capability but powerful WMD__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. We cannot afford to ignore existing and growing threats to the very existence of the United States as a national entity. </span>**__Missile defenses and conventional strike capabilities__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, while critically important elements of deterrence and national power, </span>__simply **can’t substitute for nuclear deterrence**. In light of the emerging “strategic partnership” between Russia and China and their emphasis on nuclear weapons it would be foolish indeed to size U.S. strategic nuclear forces as if the only threat we face is that of rogue states and discard the requirement that the U.S. nuclear deterrent be “second to none.”__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Ignoring the PRC nuclear threat because of Chinese “no first use” propaganda is just as irresponsible. </span>__Absent a nuclear deterrent to their WMD use, rogue states could defeat our forces by the combination of few nuclear EMP weapons and large chemical and biological attacks. The situation would be much worse if they build a more extensive nuclear strike capability__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as has been reported. </span>__Freezing U.S. nuclear forces__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> at the technical level of the Reagan administration </span>__will assure that__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, within two decades, </span>__Russia, China, India, and probably others will be technically superior and U.S. deterrence ability against CBW attack will be reduced. U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>__nuclear forces must be modernized and tailored to enhance deterrence and damage limitation against the rogue WMD threat__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. WMD capabilities have given otherwise inconsequential states the ability to kill millions of people. The right combination of missile defense and conventional and nuclear strike capabilities provide the best deterrent and damage limiting capability against the rogue state threat. </span>__We must not ignore the requirement to provide extended deterrence to our allies. British and French nuclear forces are not large enough, and these nations are not perceived as tough enough, to provide a deterrent for NATO Europe against Russia__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In the Far East, </span>__there is literally no nuclear deterrent capability against China other than that provided by the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates. </span>**__Failure to provide a credible deterrent will result in a wave of nuclear proliferation__** __with serious national security implications__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. When dealing with the rogue states, </span>**__the issue is not the size of the U.S. nuclear deterrent but the credibility of its use in response to chemical or biological weapons use and its ability to conduct low collateral damage nuclear attacks against WMD capabilities and delivery systems including very hard underground facilities for purposes of damage limitation__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. We must also have the capability to respond promptly. </span>__The U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>__nuclear guarantee is a major deterrent to proliferation. **If we do not honor that guarantee, or devalue it, many more nations will obtain nuclear weapons**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. If arms control really becomes a substitute for nuclear deterrence and defense, </span>**__it may__** __very well **precipitate the most destructive war in history**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Effective verification is essentially impossible, and verification is not a substitute for compliance. Today, arms control has become part of the problem rather than a solution to the problem. The abolition of the in-kind deterrent to CBW use—which deterred CBW use in World War II—is making the world more unsafe almost on a daily basis. The START and Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaties prevent or inhibit the development of conventional strike capabilities with enhanced ability to counter WMD. The demise of the ABM Treaty, while very useful, does not completely address the problem of legacy arms control and its constraints upon U.S. conventional capabilities. </span>


__Advantage Two is Hosted Payloads__

The NSP signaled benign intent in space development, but political controversy and residual global uncertainty over its implementation continue to deny effective multilateral cooperation on space security
**__Huntley ‘11__** (Wade L. Huntley, Ph.D., senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress,” Disarmament Times, Spring 2011, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)
**__U.S. space policy__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in the two decades since the end of the Cold War </span>**__has been evolving against a backdrop of uncertainty__**__. Technological developments shape and redistribute power resources relevant to space security activities, and **game-changing advances in space technologies could emerge at any time**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Also, space activities involve an increasing number and variety of actors. Whereas states have been dominant in the past, recent trends suggest an increasing trend toward privatization of space activities, with private launches and space tourism on the horizon. While the same context influences many other countries as well, </span>__the central role of U.S. space activities on the global stage generates particular attention. This is especially true of U.S. policies and activities regarding military security in space. The U.S. space security position is widely understood to be world dominant, and so U.S. behavior naturally overshadows and shapes the behavior of others. U.S. behavior, however, does not necessarily “set the tone.” Rather, the reactions of other countries and non-state actors to the directions of U.S. policies and activities are inevitably filtered through their own outlooks. **Although cooperative and multilateral tacks in U.S. government policies generally have a palliative effect on the global atmosphere, U.S. policy-makers do not characteristically assume that cooperative gestures will routinely elicit quid pro quo responses**. **That additional uncertainty underlies** **the ongoing tension between “nationalist” and “internationalist” impulses in U.S. policy-making on space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (as on many other issues) </span>**__and in turn magnifies global uncertainties concerning the future of space governance__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. During the Cold War, national security concerns dominated U.S. space activities. While manned missions and commercial opportunities occupied prominent positions in the public image, with NASA becoming the “face” of the U.S. space posture, activities from Sputnik onward were inspired by — and funding for them justified by — the underlying security competition with the Soviet Union. Importantly for current circumstances, this Cold War posture became entrenched in core attitudes and bureaucratic practices across much of the space community. As a result, </span>__even as Cold War ended, U.S. space policy could not easily diverge from its focus on national security__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For example, the 1996 National Space Policy issued by the Clinton administration, while envisioning greater “partnership and cooperation” internationally, aimed to maintain a U.S. “leadership role” across the full range of space activities. Guidelines for security activities in space were prominent, and while these guidelines included provisions for arms control as well as expressly military activities, the policy less effectively explained how tensions in these aims would be reconciled.1 Moreover, the overarching tone of the policy was to view U.S. space activities as derivative of broader national goals, rather than constituting national goals in themselves, continuing a trend since the end of the Apollo missions. As is well understood, </span>__the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns. </span>__This background is essential for appreciating how the space policies of the Obama administration are beginning to genuinely break new trails. **The** U.S. **N**ational **S**pace **P**olicy issued in June 2010 **has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateral tone**, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.3 Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making. To some degree, a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, new budget realities and unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds. The 2011 National Security Space Strategy, released February 4, is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 • The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.” • The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, the strategy states the U.S. “will support development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and norms of behavior for responsible space operations.” [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures. This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements in the longer-term. • The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships,” and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right. • The strategy commits to reforming export controls. “In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it. • The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.” • The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities. Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria. The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps as striking as the prevalence of such passages, however, is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand the kind of independent space-based military capabilities that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 </span>__The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative </span>__“as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. </span>**__These policy movements toward multilateral engagement__** __and commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) **mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance to curtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 </span>__Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 </span>**__The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In sum, the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy toward greater global engagement but also, and more importantly, a step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 </span>__But if this reading is sound, **the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that </span>__more **specific guidelines for military implementation** of the strategy **remain to be developed**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.18 </span>**__Many devils may lurk in these details__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

Specifically, the NSP rhetorically committed to hosted military payloads, but it won’t be implemented for a decade
**__Hudson ‘11__** (Katie Hudson, “National Security Space Strategy Brings Opportunity for Hosted Payloads,” Hosted Payloads: presented by Space News, 2-7-2011, http://www.hostedpayload.com/blog/national-security-space-strategy-brings-opportunity-for-hosted-payloads)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Last Friday, the U.S. Defense Department released the new National Security Space Strategy. The decade long policy is meant to help direct the U.S. Government in terms of Obama’s National Space Policy. Deputy Defense Secretary, Gregory Schulte said this policy is aimed at making the United States "more resilient" and capable of protecting its holdings in an increasingly trafficked and at times hostile setting. </span>**__In the N__**__ational **S**pace **P**olicy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, announced in June 2010, </span>**__an emphasis was put on the “reliance on commercial space activities” including “hosting government payloads on commercial spacecraft__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and purchasing of data products.” Schute also mentioned that </span>__U.S. Defense Department officials are working with Australia on sharing space situational awareness and are figuring out how the DoD can host payloads on their satellites. “And we’re looking for a whole range of activities to implement the new strategy in a budget-constrained environment__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” he said. In an article on MSNBC.com, it was mentioned that </span>**__both the N__**__ational **S**ecurity **S**pace **S**trategy **and the** **N**ational **S**pace **P**olicy **reflect a policy shift in response to space security**. **There is now a focus on the threats of anti-satellite weapons and the growing amount of space debris**. We are also in a time where there are **almost 60 different commercial companies or countries** that own or **operate assets in space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__Both the Space Policy and the Security Strategy come at an important time in the space world__**__. **Given tight budgets, and possibly even tighter budgets in the future, international cooperation will be helpful**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In the MSNBC.com article, Schulte stated that </span>**__the D__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">epartment </span>**__o__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">f </span>**__D__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">efense </span>**__has begun talking about hosting payloads on commercial satellites__** __in the "budget-constrained environment__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">." </span>**__The policy is not expected to be actually implemented for another ten years__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. By then, will the threat of space debris become a crisis? Having multiple payloads on board a satellite would help decrease the amount of debris down the line, but the question remains:How soon till a policy is actually implemented?</span>

That’s because they’re restricted to experimental missions – Congressional action is key
**__Selding ‘11__** (Peter B. de Selding, “CHIRP Delay Holds Lessons for U.S. Air Force, Industry,” Space News, 9-12-2011, http://www.spacenews.com/military/110912-chirp-delay-lessons-af-industry.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In a presentation here Sept. 12 at the World Satellite Business Week conference, Kathy Shockey, vice president of research and business development at commercial satellite builder Space Systems/Loral of Palo Alto, Calif., said Loral estimates that nine commercial telecommunications satellites per year built by U.S. and European manufacturers could be made available for hosted payloads seeking a ride to geostationary orbit 36,000 kilometers over the equator. Burgess cautioned that </span>**__most commercial__** __telecommunications **satellites are designed to be able to launch on at least two of the world’s principal commercial rockets**. The two dominant commercial launch providers now are Evry, France-based **Arianespace and** International Launch Services (**ILS**) of McLean, Va. ILS is owned by the Russian government-controlled Khrunichev Space Center of Moscow, which builds the Russian Proton heavy-lift **rockets** marketed worldwide by ILS__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Burgess said </span>**__the Air Force accepted CHIRP’s__** __**launch aboard a European rocket, but would have hesitated before permitting** its **launch** aboard an ILS Proton vehicle, which is operated **from Russia**’s Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Loverro said that with a little extra effort, the Air Force CHIRP team might have secured U.S. Air Force approval for an ILS Proton launch as well. But he added: “It would not have been our first choice.” </span>**__Current U.S. government policy permits U.S. government payloads to launch on non-U.S. rockets only if the payloads are experimental in nature__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, as is CHIRP. Loverro said </span>__the next step will be to secure a decision to allow operational payloads to use non-U.S. rockets__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In a statement issued Sept. 14, the Air For Space and Missile Systems Center said, “</span>__[t]he policy currently in place is limited to military experimental hosted payloads and in the future **there will have to be a Congressional campaign to allow** operational **hosted payloads on a foreign** U.S. **launcher for commercial opportunities**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. “This does not address all U.S. government experimental payloads. </span>__The new, much anticipated **Arianespace launch with** **the first U.S. commercially hosted payload is the beginning of a new way of ridesharing to space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">,” the statement concludes. </span>**__In recent years, U.S.-built rockets have been virtually absent from the commercial launch landscape because of their price and__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> what some satellite owners view as their </span>**__lack of availability__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

The plan is essential to move beyond the lip service of the NSP – creates a formal procurement mechanism and standardizes technical interfaces
**__Rhodes ‘11__** (Rhodes Communications, “To Catch a Moving Train,” Space News International, 5-2-2011, http://rhodescomm.com/_literature_102214/To_Catch_a_Moving_Train)
**__The U.S. Defense Department's fast-fading opportunity to piggyback a military mission aboard__** __Iridium Communications‘ **next-generation satellite constellation underscores the need for a formal mechanism** and procedures **by which government agencies, the Pentagon in particular, can identify and capitalize on brewing hosted payload opportunities**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Perhaps the biggest challenge associated with hosted payloads is that government and commercial entities operate on different time scales. Commercial satellite operators, for whom time is money, set and largely adhere to tight schedules for deploying new capabilities. Large government bureaucracies, on the other hand, barring a genuine emergency can rarely muster a relatively simple investment decision within the narrow opening that a commercial development program offers. Since few commercial satellite operators can afford to put manufacturing programs on hold while awaiting a government commitment to get on board never mind the arrival of an integration-ready payload — it's likely that most such opportunities will be missed. Iridium, for example, must replace a constellation of some 66 low-orbiting satellites that were launched mainly in the late l990s. An independent analysis has determined that the current Iridium ﬂeet should last until 2017 or so, which puts the company on a relatively tight schedule forgetting the Iridium Next replacement constellation built, launched aboard multiple rockets and then checked out on orbit. Iridium has long made clear that hosting government payloads is part of the Iridium Next business plan. The company even reserved space and power aboard each of the satellites for hosted payloads, assigning the rights to market that real estate — for a price — to Orbital Sciences Corp. which is under contract to perform ﬁnal assembly and integration of the spacecraft. </span>__The fact that the Pentagon hasn't jumped at the opportunity is not due to a lack of interest__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, according to Iridium Chief Executive Matt Desch, who noted there were ideas for applications that would have taken up a significant portion if not all of the Iridium Next hosted payload capacity. He wasn't specific, but </span>__one could easily envision leveraging the constellation to deploy orbital surveillance or space weather monitoring capabilities with global coverage__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for a very modest price. </span>**__The problem__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, he said, </span>**__is the Pentagon's massive procurement bureaucracy has yet to adapt to doing business this way__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. "l am afraid </span>**__this is going to be a very big thing in the next I0 years —and not, as it should be, in the next two or three years__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">," he said at a recent conference. It would be easy to criticize the Pentagon for fumbling such a big and rare opportunity — another commercial satellite program of this scale isn't likely to come along for another TD to l5 years, if at all — but it also would be unfair; this was going to be a tough train to catch under any circumstances. Although lridium's plans for hosting govemment payloads have been known for years, it was not until mid-2010 that the company secured the financing to build the satellites and awarded the prime contract to Thales Alenia Space. </span>__Given Iridium's end-of-2012 deadline for securing hosted payload commitments, the Pentagon effectively had some two-and-a-half years to design a program utilizing all or at least a signiﬁcant portion of Iridium Next's capacity, marshal the necessary resources and win approvals across the chain of command and from Congress__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. That's probably asking too much; big govemment bureaucracies simply don't move that quickly. Nr. Desch remains hopeful of selling most of the Iridium Next hosted payload space to other U.S. government customers, such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and even the Pentagon could still ﬁnd a way to utilize at least some of the capacity, albeit on a much smaller scale than Iridium originally envisioned. But if Iridium represents an elusive, once-in-a-decade opportunity, </span>__there are literally dozens of far more accessible opportunities to place payloads aboard commercial geostationary orbiting satellites, 20 or more of which are launched every year__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Geostationary satellite owners have been pitching the hosted payload concept for years but to date have gotten only a handful of takers. Established ﬁxed satellite services providers have steady and predictable fleet replacement cycles and there are enough of them such that the government can count on multiple opportunities with similar characteristics each year. </span>**__The Pentagon faces signiﬁcant declines in its space budget in the coming years even as its demand for space-based services continues to grow__**__. The White House. meanwhile, has made it ofﬁcial policy to leverage commercial space capabilities wherever possible. **It is time to move beyond the lip service Pentagon officials have paid to the hosted payload concept and set up a program** **specifically designed to identify military needs — both** **experimental and operational** — **that could be met with payloads compatible with multiple commercial platforms** that go into assembly in any given year__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Industry could help the cause by **developing standard interfaces that government piggyback payloads could be designed to**. That way, if a payload misses its targeted flight opportunity, another suitable ride will come along sooner rather than later__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Hosted Payload Alliance. an industry group created to educate prospective government customers on the topic, could play an important role in getting government and manufacturers to agree on common interface standards. </span>__The current ﬂeet replenishment cycle of the major geostationary satellite operators is winding down, but **there still should be plenty of opportunities to exploit in the next few years**. Certainly **there will be no excuse for missing the next big fleet replenishment wave**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The lridium experience, by virtue of its high profile, is </span>__a wake-up call for the Defense Department to finally get serious about leveraging what to date has been an underutilized commercial space resource__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

This uniquely cements cooperation in three ways – __institutionalizes__ engagement, provides the __diplomatic capital__ to pursue a multilateral agenda, and ensures the U.S. is __perceived__ as committed
**__Berteau ‘10__** (David Berteau, adjunct professor at Georgetown University, Senior Adviser and Director, CSIS DIIG, and Gregory Kiley, Senior Associate focusing on national security and economics, both Project Directors, CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “National Security and the Commercial Space Sector,” July 2010, p.32-36, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">A. Option Set I: Leverage foreign launch providers </span>**__Multinational alliances and globalization across the entire commercial space sector__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, especially in the communications satellite segment, </span>**__have increased tremendously__**__, presenting both new challenges and opportunities for U.S. national security__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.’ The March 12, 2010, Space Posture Review: Interim Report states, “Growing international and commercial interest and expertise in space presents opportunities for the United States for further collaboration and partnership in support of U.S. national security space activities, and the global community at large.” This option set explores two approaches to leveraging foreign launch providers—(l) </span>**__the U.S. government may enter into explicit partnerships with foreign providers to assure launch for__** __commercial and **government payloads**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">; or (2) the U.S. government may reevaluate, remove, or streamline certain export control policies and regulations. While the analysis and evaluation of this option set focuses on improving commercial launch customers‘ access to space, </span>__the **policies and actions regarding foreign launch providers have been in the past—and** most likely **will continue to be—used to leverage trade policy, technology control and innovation policy, geopolitics, and national security**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. U.S. government interaction with foreign launch providers has a complex history, often following several avenues at once and often at cross purposes. A. l. Possible actions. </span>__Recognizing the importance of commercial launch capabilities internationally and nationally, **the U.S. government could explore avenues to leverage the world launch market by entering into strategic partnerships**. **Current U.S. government international cooperation—including DoD partnerships to conduct space operations—is a patchwork of agreements that vary** according to the nations involved **and make collaboration among multiple partners more difficult**. This patchwork reﬂects the simple fact that **there is no coherent**. structured **U.S. government strategy for commercial space access that can create synergies within international relationships**. The Space Posture Review: Interim Report notes, “The long history of cooperation in civilian space programs and **U.S. government partnerships with commercial space service providers can serve as a foundation for collaborative global action to shape the future space environment**." **One example of such collaboration would be a U.S. government-Arianespace**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, ILS, CGWIC, or ISRO‘ </span>**__partnership to utilize foreign launch sites__** __and assure launch access prioritization. **The U.S. government would enter into negotiations to assure mutual access to and sharing of industrial base** capacities and **capabilities**. **Such arrangements could begin with national security assets on commercial satellites with hosted payloads**. The main goal would be to view the launch enterprise as a global one, with a global industrial base and global interests. One goal, from a U.S. perspective, would be to ensure it maintains access to space in the face of technical launch problems or natural or man-made disasters affecting U.S. launch sites__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To more effectively leverage foreign launch providers and improve access for commercial launch customers, the United States should consider using existing legal authority, such as detailed in the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and I991, to issue export authorizations for commercial satellite launches, consistent with national security requirements, to all foreign launch providers. The United States should also seek to reform its complex system of U.S. export control laws and regulations. U.S. access to foreign space capabilities faces a signiﬁcant challenge because of this complex system, which fails to acknowledge the dynamics of global space commerce. Action to address this could consist of statutory and regulatory reform, including, but not limited to, possible changes to the ITAR that implement the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778). In the last several years, the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce have undertaken numerous export control reviews with a push toward actionable recommendations. Most recently, President Obama formed an interagency task force in August 2009 to review export regulations. He announced initial results of his administration's efforts at a March 2010 U.S. Export-Import Bank conference, noting that the “reform program will enhance national security by focusing on the enforcement of strict controls around the export of the most critical technologies and products, while strengthening the competitiveness of key manufacturing industries in the U.S. by streamlining the regulations that apply to their exports“ Several options are under consideration for reforming this system: In Congress, efforts7 are under way to update the Export Administration Act, writ large, and several legislators have voiced strong support, in particular for moving satellites and related components from the State Department-administered U.S. Munitions List (USML) to the Commerce Department-administered Commercial Control List (CCL). These endeavors complement broader efforts in the executive branch to reform the “byzantine amalgam of authorities, roles, and missions scattered around different parts of the federal government" and update antiquated Cold War restrictions found in the Arms Export Control Act and Export Administration Act, in part by creating a single export control list. ln April 2010, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates outlined an export control reform plan that includes “a single export-control list, a single licensing agency, a single enforcement-coordination agency, and a single information-technology system,“ with possible changes enacted before the end of the year. Although implementation details remain undeﬁned, including the extent and likelihood of needed legislation, this plan has the potential to reform to a signiﬁcant degree U.S. export control policies and administration. A third approach would involve using a last-tracking system such as the one developed alter the launch of Operation Enduring Freedom: executive branch agencies could identify tiers of allies for which to speed up reviews while operating within existing legislation and using existing control lists. Reforming the “rule set“ for how ITAR is applied could also be valuable by offering a reassessment of which technologies need to be controlled for export and dealing with issues of timing. review. transparency. and cost in the export licensing process.” A.2. Potential beneﬁts. As the Space Posture Review: Interim Report states succinctly: “</span>**__New opportunities for partnership__** __and collaboration **with both international and commercial space actors have the potential to support future national security space activities and enhance U.S. leadership**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">."" </span>**__Forming alliances__**__. **Encouraging cooperation with foreign entities** could provide several beneﬁts to the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates, </span>__including ensuring continued U.S. access to space after a technical failure or a launch facility calamity. strengthening the competitive position of the U.S. commercial satellite sector. **enhancing the U.S. position in partnerships, and reinforcing collaboration among other space-faring nations**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As the Booz, Allen 8: Hamilton 2000 defense industry "Viewpoint" notes, </span>__strategic commercial alliances: (l) provide capabilities to expand quickly service offerings and markets in ways not possible under time and resource constraints; (2) earn a rate of return 50 percent higher than base businesses—"retums more than double as ﬁrms gain experience in alliances"; and (3) are a powerful altemative to acquiring other companies because they “avoid costly accumulation of debt and buildup of balance sheet goodwill." ‘Z In those respects. **international commercial alliances could help U.S. ﬁrms access foreign funding, business systems. space expertise, technology, and intellectual capital and increase U.S. industry's market share overseas, thus providing economic beneﬁts** to the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates. </span>__Moreover. **U.S. experiences with foreign entities in foreign markets could help those entities obtain the requisite approvals to operate U.S. govemment satellite systems in other countries, resolve satellite spectrum and coordination issues, and mitigate risks associated with catastrophic domestic launch failures** by providing for contingency launch capabilities from foreign nations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__Multinational alliances would also signal U.S. policymakers’ intent to ensure U.S. commercial and military access to space within a cooperative, international domain, help promote international cooperation, and build support for U.S. positions within various govemmental and business forums__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__First, **partnerships could allow the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__to demonstrate greater leadership in mitigating those shared risks related to vulnerability of space assets through launch facility and data sharing, offering improved space situational awareness, establishing collective security agreements for space assets, exploring space deterrence and satellite security doctrines, and formulating and agreeing to rules of the road on the expected peaceful behavior in the space domain__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” </span>__Second, **partnerships could also help the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__build consensus__** __on important space-related issues **in bilateral or multilateral organizations such as the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__N__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ations, </span>__the International Telecommunication Union, **and the W**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">orld </span>**__T__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">rade </span>**__O__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">rganization; </span>**__working with emerging spacefaring nations is particularly important because of their growing presence in__** __the marketplace and participation in **international organizations**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">." </span>__Third, **alliances could serve as a bridge to future collaborative etforts** between U.S. national security forces and U.S. allies__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For example, civil multinational alliances such as the Intemational Space Station and the intemational search and rescue satellite consortium. Cospas-Sarsat. involve </span>__multiple countries partnering to use space for common public global purposes__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.“ </span>__Finally. developing govemment. business, and professional relationships with people in other countries provides opportunities for the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>__to further the principles upon which U.S. national security relies—competition, economic stability, and democracy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

That prevents aggression in space
**__Lynn ‘11__** (William J. Lynn, III, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment,” The Washington Quarterly, Summer 2011, http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf)
**__To respond to the proliferation of counterspace weapons, the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>**__is employing new ways to prevent and deter aggression__** __against U.S. and allied space systems. In the contested space environment of today, **we can no longer rely solely on the threat of retaliation to protect space systems from attack**. **We must expand our traditional concepts of deterrence**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Accordingly, </span>__the National Security Space Strategy outlines the multilayered approach we will take to deter aggression__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. This approach includes several important initiatives. </span>__First, we are assessing **diplomatic initiatives such as the EU Code of Conduct to promote international norms of responsible behavior**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. These initiatives define how responsible space-faring nations are expected to conduct themselves </span>**__and__** __**should over time discourage destabilizing acts that threaten the overall stability of the space domain**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Nations willfully acting contrary to such norms can expect to be isolated as rogue actors. </span>__Second, **we can utilize** **alliances in space** to **serve the same deterrent function as basing troops** **in allied countries**. **They can ensure an attack on one is an attack on all**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__As with terrestrial defense alliances, partnerships in space also can add resilience and capabilities__**__, without relinquishing the strategic advantage our systems provide__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. At their fullest, </span>__these partnerships could consist of completely interoperable systems in which costs, benefits, and risks are shared among trusted participants__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For instance, Australia recently became a full partner in the Wideband Global Satellite Communications System (WGS), which directly supports warfighters. The cost-savings from our partnership with Australia allowed the Pentagon to procure an additional satellite for the WGS constellation. By sharing the benefits and risks of developing this system, we enhanced our operational capability and raised the cost of aggression against it. </span>**__Increasingly, we will want to operate in coalitions in space, just as we do in other domains__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To achieve this, the department will examine all mission areas to identify where shared interests open the door to greater levels of cooperation. One way to foster greater cooperation is to transform the Joint Space Operations Center, which provides command and control for our space forces, into a Combined Space Operations Center run in concert with international partners. Such an arrangement will allow our partners to work side-by-side with U.S. commanders, improving our situational awareness while integrating a multilateral approach to day-to-day operations. Networking our space operations center with those of our allies offers a further way to expand collaboration. But even as we increasingly work in partnerships, we will maintain some U.S.-only capabilities for our most sensitive national security missions. </span>__Third, **we need to make our space systems more resilient**, and our combat power less reliant on their full functioning. This will help deny adversaries the benefit from an attack in space__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Just as in the cyber domain, </span>**__denying the benefit of attack in space__** __**can join retaliatory deterrence** **as a disincentive to adversaries**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To maintain our combat power, we are learning how to operate in a degraded information environment. Training exercises where we disrupt space-based capabilities help our forces become proficient at operating with interference. To improve resiliency, we are developing technology to help us mitigate the loss or degradation of on-orbit systems. For instance, we now have ground, air, and naval-based platforms which can increasingly augment or replace space assets. The U.S. military is one of the few militaries today with the capability to operate in all domains on a global basis, and this ability provides a strategic advantage when space capabilities come under threat. Responsive space capabilities which rapidly launch replacements can also play an important role in reconstituting functionality either during or after an attack. And broader partnerships with commercial firms which enable national security payloads to ride on commercial satellites will further improve our resiliency. Hosting military payloads on commercial spacecraft, as we are already doing with a missile warning sensor, is not only cost-effective, it also enables a more diverse, robust, and distributed set of space systems. Finally, the United States views free access to space as a vital national interest. Consistent with our inherent right of self-defense, we will respond accordingly to attacks on it, at a time and place of our choosing</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and not necessarily in space. Ultimately, deterrence must impact the decision-making of particular countries and leaders in specific scenarios. </span>**__A multilayered approach to deterrence offers the greatest likelihood of encouraging restraint, and thereby protecting our vital space capabilities from attack__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>

Prefer our methodology – deterrence can only function when grounded in cooperation and trust
**__Lupovici ‘8__** (Amir Lupovici, Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse,” http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf )
__Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in the actors’ will to achieve ontological security, securing the actors’ identity and routines__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As McSweeney explains, </span>__ontological security is “the acquisition of confidence in the routines of daily life—the essential predictability of interaction through which we feel confident in knowing what is going on and that we have the practical skill to go on in this context__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” These routines become part of the social structure that enables and constrains the actors’ possibilities (McSweeney, 1999: 50-1, 154-5; Wendt, 1999: 131, 229-30). Thus, </span>**__through the emergence of the deterrence norm and the construction of deterrence identities__**__, the **actors create an intersubjective context and intersubjective understandings that in turn affect their interests and routines**. In this context, deterrence strategy and deterrence practices are better understood by the actors, **and** therefore **the continuous avoidance of violence is more easily achieved**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Furthermore, within such a context of deterrence relations, rationality is (re)defined, clarifying the appropriate practices for a rational actor, and this, in turn, reproduces this context and the actors’ identities. Therefore, </span>**__the internalization of deterrence ideas helps__** __to explain how **actors** may **create more cooperative practices and break away from the spiral of hostility that is** forced and maintained by the identities that are **attached to the security dilemma, and which lead to mutual perception of the other as an aggressive enemy**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As Wendt for example suggests, </span>__in situations where states are restrained from using violence—such as MAD (mutual assured destruction)—states not only avoid violence, but “ironically, may be willing to trust each other enough to take on collective identity”__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In such cases if actors believe that others have no desire to engulf them, then it will be easier to trust them and to identify with their own needs (Wendt, 1999: 358-9). In this respect, </span>**__the norm of deterrence, the trust that is being built between the opponents, and the (mutual) constitution of their role identities may all lead to the creation of long term influences that preserve the practices of deterrence as well as the avoidance of violence__**__. **Since a basic level of trust is needed to attain ontological security**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, 21 </span>**__the existence of it may further strengthen the practices of deterrence__** __and the actors’ identities of deterrer and deterred actors__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In this respect, I argue that for the reasons mentioned earlier, </span>__the practices of deterrence should be understood as providing both physical and ontological security, thus refuting that there is necessarily tension between them__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Exactly for this reason I argue that Rasmussen’s (2002: 331-2) assertion—according to which MAD was about enhancing ontological over physical security—is only partly correct. Certainly, MAD should be understood as providing ontological security; but it also allowed for physical security, since, compared to previous strategies and doctrines, it was all about decreasing the physical threat of nuclear weapons. Furthermore, </span>__the ability to increase one dimension of security helped to enhance the other, since it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Otherwise, miscalculation makes conflicts and escalation to extinction inevitable
**__Mitchell, et al ‘1__** (Gordon M. Mitchell, Assoc. Prof of Communications, University of Pittsburgh, Kevin Ayotte & David Cram Helwich, “Missile Defense: Transatlantic Diplomacy at a Cross-Roads”, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense No. 6, July 2001)
**__A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence__**__, **but this rationale glosses over the tendency that** '… **the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 </span>__The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. </span>**__The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig__** __orbiting Death Stars with **automated 'hair trigger' devices**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span>__by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious **seeds of accidental conflict**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed </span>__'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. According to Perrow, </span>__this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, </span>__multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.36 </span>__Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span>__'**even a tiny projectile reentering from space**__ **__strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than__** __would be done by **a nuclear weapon**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38</span>**__Given this unique potential for destruction__**__, it is not hard to imagine that **any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear**, biological, and/or chemical **weapons**. **An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>