=[[toc]] Pace= 
==T== 
===1NC=== 
**Investment is capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital**
**CBO, 9** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this analysis, </span>investment in infrastructure is defined as capital spending on transportation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, utilities (for example, water and power supply), environmental projects, and schools. 1 In addition, because they account for a significant share of the tax-exempt debt issued, health care facilities and hospitals are treated as infrastructure in this study, although they might not be classified as such for many other types of analyses. </span>Capital spending<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> under this study’s definition </span>consists of investment in physical capital, such as structures and facilities, rather than intangible capital, which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development

==Semiconductor DA== 
===1NC=== 
**Solar industry can’t compete with semiconductors now – there is a shortage**
Calfinder 4-16, nationwide home solar power installation company, on 4-16
[http://solar.calfinder.com/blog/solar-information/are-pv-costs-rising/=]
Well, demand is exactly why prices are rising. It seems that the production end of the solar industry just cannot keep up with demand. The rising cost of installation boils down to a shortage of polysilicon. Polysilicon is the key ingredient in traditional solar cells and represent over half the cost of PV panel production. Manufacturers of polysilicon simply do not have the production capacity to keep up with demand, which is projected to rise at an even faster rate. Many manufacturers are amping up their capacity but cannot yet catch up. In addition, the solar industry is not the only consumer of polysilicon. It is also a key component of semiconductors for the electronics industry among others. In fact, two-thirds of polysilicon production goes to the manufacture of semiconductors. In the short term at least, polysilicon shortages will continue to drive PV costs higher until manufacturers can catch up.¶ However, this trend, by any measure, does not denote disaster for the solar industry and may be more of a foreshadowing of the imminent future of PV. New technologies such as thin-film, polycrystalline cells already promise a more aesthetic, inexpensive residential solar opportunity. Thin-film cells (TFPV) are expected to grow exponentially in popularity over the next decade largely because they are far cheaper to produce than traditional PV cells.¶ With the current demand for solar power and the expansion of solar tax incentives it is unlikely that the polysilicon shortage or rising PV prices will have any long-term effect on the industry. The powerful push, both politically and technologically, toward renewable energy sources forecasts a positive future for solar PV.

**The U.S. would quickly win a war with China**
Record, 01 (Jeffrey, professor of strategy and international security at the Air War College, Aerospace Power Journal, Winter, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj01/win01/record.html)
Primary Sino-American war starters seem to be Chinese aggression against Taiwan and in the South China Sea. Yet, a US defense of Taiwan and of freedom of navigation in the western Pacific would play greatly to America's traditional military strengths while at the same time exploit long-standing Chinese weaknesses. Historically, China's sole strategically impressive war-fighting suit has been the quantity of its ground forces, which counts for little in the pursuit of offshore imperial ambitions. Asserting and maintaining dominance over Taiwan and the South China Sea require mastery of air and naval power—arenas in which the United States is peerless and likely to remain so for decades (assuming no retreat to isolationism plus a determination to maintain both conventional military supremacy and a forward military presence in East Asia—neither to be taken for granted). Chinese naval and air forces are rudimentary by US standards, but perhaps an even greater deficiency is the absence of any modern combat experience. China has not fought a major war since Korea (where US airpower pummeled the PLA), whereas the United States has had a virtual cornucopia of such experience since the end of the Cold War. Practice may not make perfect, but it is surely better than sitting on the military bench for almost half a century. (China's brief and highly restricted invasion of Vietnam in 1979 pitted masses of poorly armed and trained Chinese troops against better-equipped North Vietnamese combat veterans.) Crucial to sound thinking about war with China is recognition that to shift America's primary strategic focus from Europe to Asia is to shift from a predominantly ground-air to a predominantly air-sea theater of operations. Why? Because of the asymmetrical distributions of wealth and power between the two regions. Most of Asia's wealth and power still lies in offshore and peninsular states, whereas in Europe it is concentrated ashore. Thus, maintaining a balance of power in Europe (i.e., preventing Europe's domination by a hostile power) mandated a willingness and capacity to wage ground warfare deeply inland. In contrast, maintaining an Asian balance of power requires performing the simpler task of keeping offshore and peninsular Asia outside a continental hegemon's grasp.9 Large land-warfare operations in the Asian interior are not just unnecessary; they are to be avoided at all costs because they would pit US weaknesses against a continental hegemon's strengths. Even Gen Douglas MacArthur, who in 1951 wanted to expand the Korean War into an air and sea assault on China, declared that "it would be a master folly to contemplate the use of United States ground troops in China," adding that "I can conceive of no strategic or tactical position where I would put in . . . units of American ground troops in continental China."10 In addition to naval and air inferiority, China would approach war with the United States with significant strategic disadvantages. Regionwide suspicion of China's imperial ambitions has deprived Beijing of significant allies and even friends in East Asia, whereas the United States is rich in both. India remains a strategic competitor, and Chinese behavior in the South China Sea has alienated most of Southeast Asia.

**Oil dependence at all-time low – fracking and domestic production**
CSM 9/28/2012 [CER News Desk “Oil production in US hits highest level in 15 years” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Energy-Voices/2012/0928/Oil-production-in-US-hits-highest-level-in-15-years]] AM]
Oil production in the United States rose last week to levels not seen since January 1997, helping the country to reduce dependence on foreign sources of crude as it continues to implement the drilling and fracking technologies needed to increase daily oil output. (See also: Are President Obama’s Policies Causing U.S. Oil Production to Rise?)¶ RELATED: Top 5 nations that use renewable energy¶ Reports from the Energy Department released this week show that overall crude output in the U.S. rose 3.7 percent to 6.5 million barrels per day by the week of September 21, a trend that has continued since the country met 83 percent of its annual energy needs from the beginning of the year through June. Should domestic oil production continue at its current rate, the United States will enjoy 2012 as its most self-sufficient year since 1991. ¶ The increased production is a direct result of the new technologies being implemented by oil companies in an effort to extract crude in locations other than wells, including horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing (fracking); the same technology has taken American natural gas stock levels to new heights. (See also: How Much Oil Does the World Produce?)¶ “This has been driven by shale, and the two states leading the way are North Dakota and Texas,” said Andy Lipow, president of Texas energy consulting firm Lipow Oil Associates LLC. “It appears that over the next five years, U.S. oil production could climb to well over 8 million barrels a day.”¶ The rise in crude production in the U.S. has analysts predicting that oil prices will decline over the next six to nine months; already a growing natural gas stockpile pushed futures down to $1.907 per million BTU earlier in the year, its lowest point in the past 12 years. Increasing fuel production has many setting their sights on what is being dubbed the “reindustrialization” of the United States, an economic state that could see more than 3.5 million jobs created in the country by 2020 if domestic energy production continues at a high rate. (See also:The Effect of New Production Methods on U.S Oil Output)

**They don’t solve Sino-US war, their Nur evidence says that even after we have alternative energy we will still need oil**
Nur ’11 - Professor of Earth Sciences and Professor of Geophysics at Stanford University (Amos, 3/28/11, Lecture at Technion, http://www1.technion.ac.il/_local/includes/blocks/news-items/110331-nur/news-item-en.htm)
Prof. Nur also related to the subject of alternative energy by saying that even if we exploit alternative energy sources such as solar, wind, bio-mass and even nuclear energy on a scale equal to our use of oil, gas and coal today, in 50 years we will still need the same amount of oil and gas we need today because demand will by 2.5 times larger than today.

**Imports from Gulf Coast increasing – means no foreign dependence**
Martaugh 9/7/2012 [Dan Martaugh, Bloomberg, “US shale boom cuts Gulf oil cost, foreign dependence” [[http://www.telegram.com/article/20120907/NEWS/109079588/1002/business#.UGklfU1ZUs8|http://www.telegram.com/article/20120907/NEWS/109079588/1002/business#.UGklfU1ZUs8]] AM]
U.S. oil output surged to the highest level in 13 years in July, according to weekly Energy Department data. The U.S. met 83 percent of its energy demand from domestic sources in the first five months of this year and is heading for the highest annual level since 1991, department figures compiled by Bloomberg show. ¶ “Unconventional oils and gas are changing everything about our competitiveness in the United States,” Bill Klesse, Valero Energy Corp.’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the Barclays CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York. “Before you know it, we’re going to have so much light, sweet crude that in the U.S. Gulf Coast we’re not going to be importing light, sweet crude, and we think that happens next year.” ¶ Houston, New Orleans and other ports along the Gulf Coast accepted about 554,000 barrels a day of light, sweet oil from outside the U.S. in June, down from 964,000 barrels a day in June 2011 and about 1.25 million in June 2010, according to the Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.

**A gas tax will incentivize ethanol**
Abelkop, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law, 2010, in ‘9
[Adam, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393]
Although consumers may welcome the current decline in oil and gasoline prices, uncertainty in the petroleum market discourages energy investments in the transportation sector, the electrical grid, and even in the renewable energy industry. n3 Investors rely upon long-term predictability to make decisions, but this confidence is undermined by price volatility. Underinvestment in these sectors is a significant barrier to a comprehensive solution to global climate change and the United States' over-reliance on petroleum. n4 Efficiency improvements realized by an improved electrical grid and the development of renewable energy technologies serve the dual purposes of diminishing the undesirable consequences of climate change and the United States' dependence on oil. n5 Nobel Prize winner and former vice president Al Gore fervently insists that "the United States should undertake a massive strategic effort to solve the climate crisis and the fossil fuel dependency crisis simultaneously" because they are "inextricably linked." n6 The causes and effects of climate change and dependence on oil are so diverse that no single course of action can possibly offer a sufficient solution. n7 Indeed, "we will need to attack the [*395] problem from both ends: by reducing demand and by increasing supply (from renewables) simultaneously." n8¶ Recognizing the need for government involvement in the energy market, clean energy advocates support a diversity of policies, including, for example, feed-in tariffs, net metering, renewable portfolio standards, a cap-and-trade scheme for carbon emissions, and subsidies for clean energy technologies. n9 In particular, many scholars, policymakers, and industry insiders have suggested harnessing the power of taxes to influence how businesses and individuals make their energy investment and consumption decisions. n10 For instance, Rex Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil, advocates a direct tax on carbon emissions. n11 Others, including President Obama, have suggested reintroducing a windfall profits tax on oil companies' excessive revenues. n12 Alternatively, an expanding group of scholars proposes the enactment of a variable tax, including a federally-mandated "price floor," on oil or gasoline. n13 This Note explores this last option as one component of America's strategy to address climate change and oil dependence.¶ Specifically, this Note presents the normative arguments detailing why and how the federal government should administer a variable tax and price floor on gasoline derived from petroleum. Part II.A provides background information on the petroleum and renewable energy markets as well as the twin problems of climate change and the sustainability of the United States' current energy infrastructure. Part II.B expounds the underlying causes of the volatility in the prices of oil and gasoline and demonstrates that a stable, high gasoline price can facilitate a smooth transition to sources of energy that are cleaner and more efficient than traditional fossil fuels. Part III illustrates the necessity of government intervention in the energy sector by means of increased taxes designed to internalize the externalities of petroleum and gasoline. Finally, Part IV explains how the federal government should restructure the tax on gasoline to be a variable tax with a price floor and how such a tax would function as part of the solution to the looming climate [*396] and energy crises.¶ II. Background¶ A. The "Twin Crises"¶ 1. Climate Change¶ ¶ Climate change is human-induced, caused by emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), primarily carbon dioxide (CO(2)). n14 Although the burning of coal is the largest fossil fuel source of GHG emissions, n15 oil burned primarily through the transportation sector also contributes materially to climate change. The Energy Information Administration indicates that among end-use sectors, the transport sector is responsible for roughly one-third of all carbon dioxide emissions and "has led all U.S. end-use sectors in emissions of carbon dioxide since 1999." n16 Energy experts, therefore, reason that "the increasing levels of emissions from transport suggest that stronger mitigation efforts may be necessary for this sector." n17¶ Because of its potentially dire consequences, climate change must be taken seriously. n18 Projections as to the extent of warming and its consequences vary in degree and reliability. n19 A consensus of scientific authorities, however, indicates that positive [*397] feedbacks n20 and climatic oscillation as a result of atmospheric warming may be sudden and severe, n21 triggering a number of undesirable events such as acute biodiversity loss, n22 sea-level rise, n23 enhanced droughts and floods, n24 disruption of the Atlantic Current, n25 the spread of insect-borne and other diseases, n26 and international conflicts over adversely affected agricultural, land, and water resources. n27 Taken together, these factors could ultimately culminate in the extinction of an alarming number of species and stress the global economy to its breaking point. n28 Many of these projections may seem unduly alarmist; however, uncertainty as to the extent of the consequences of global climate change is a reason to err on the side of caution. n29¶ [*398] ¶ 2. Oil Dependence¶ ¶ The United States burns more oil than any other nation and imports roughly 60% of the oil it consumes. n30 The Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that domestic consumption of petroleum will average 19.7 million barrels per day (bbl/d) in 2009. n31 Given America's mammoth level of consumption - popularly referenced as its "addiction to oil" n32 - and dependence on foreign sources of petroleum, the United States is particularly vulnerable to an oil supply shock. n33 An oil supply shock occurs when a perceived or actual decline in the supply of crude causes a rapid increase in the market price and subsequent harm to the economy as a whole. n34 Such a shock could come unexpectedly and arise under a variety of circumstances. n35¶ There is a high risk that violent conflict or political instability will disrupt oil supplies in the near future. n36 An attack on a pipeline or refinery in Nigeria, Iraq, or Saudi Arabia or a possible conflict between the United States and Iran could severely disrupt the flow of oil to the marketplace. n37 Even though Canada and Mexico are among the [*399] United States' primary sources of oil, n38 the United States would not be shielded from the effects of a supply disruption of this nature because the "price of oil is determined in the world market and depends mainly on the balance between world demand and supply." n39 This is reason for concern given that 85% of the world's proven reserves are in nations to which the Government Accountability Office assigns medium-to-high investment risk. n40¶ Of course, the severity of supply shocks will vary in degree. An attack on a pipeline, for example, would not be as significant as an obstruction to shipping traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, which would threaten the flow of 55% of the world's oil reserves. n41 Oil is a fungible commodity, and the ability of the international economy to absorb limited supply shocks has increased since the 1973 oil embargo. n42 The gravity of a supply shock is dependent on how suddenly it occurs, whether it will obstruct the flow of oil in the long-term, and the overall state of the economy:¶ ¶ It is not clear how the economy would react to a sudden as opposed to a gradual increase in the price of oil or how it would overcome a long-term reduction in the oil supply. A jump in the cost of oil would strike at the margin of an economy that is facing substantially elevated oil cost already. n43¶ ¶ Extreme weather events, for example, are isolated; but even small losses of supply have regional consequences. The series of hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico in the fall of 2008 significantly upset the southeastern oil distribution system, causing gasoline shortages throughout that region. n44 This relatively small shock, however, did not greatly affect the price of oil or alter long-term investment decisions in the energy market in the way that the onset of a fresh conflict in the Middle East could. n45¶ Structural problems throughout the petroleum sector also have the potential to instigate an economic crisis. n46 Eighty percent of the world's oil infrastructure is "corroded - literally rusting through ... ." n47 Some economists forecast that inadequate investment in production and refining infrastructure will cause a severe oil supply crunch within the next decade. n48 In other words, as demand for oil steadily increases, [*400] deteriorating infrastructure may impede the ability of oil producers to refine "below-ground oil resources ... into producing capacity." n49¶ A more notable limit on oil production capacity is that oil is a finite resource; one day in the not-too-distant future, oil production will reach its peak and then steadily decrease over time. n50 Many scholars have attempted to predict when world oil production will peak, and forecasts vary wildly. n51 A loose consensus of analysts, though, projects that worldwide conventional crude oil production n52 could peak before 2012. n53 The accepted rate of global oil depletion is 2.5% annually. n54 The production capacity of nearly all of the largest oil fields is already in decline, n55 and of the top twenty oil producing nations, which together account for 85% of all oil production, ten are already in decline. n56 The discovery of new oil fields is "just barely able to compensate for the decline [in production] from larger fields; [new discoveries] will not allow us to increase overall production any further." n57 After world oil production reaches its peak, it will decline at an exponential rate. n58 The effect will be a supply shock more severe than any [*401] the world has previously experienced. n59 The shock will significantly impair oil-reliant industries such as the transportation and agriculture sectors, n60 cause conflicts over energy resources, n61 and wreck the already-strained global economy. n62¶ 3. Kicking the Addiction¶ ¶ Transportation accounts for 28% of all energy consumed in the United States, n63 and "96[%] of the energy used for transportation comes from petroleum. So mitigating the effects of peak oil must begin with reducing transportation demand for fuel." n64 The following sub-Parts provide a brief review of the technologies that could replace or be incorporated into the United States' existing energy and transportation infrastructure in order to reduce both its addiction to oil and its contribution to global climate change.¶ a. Fuel Efficiency and Driving Patterns¶ ¶ Improvements in fuel efficiency are an important bridge to more sustainable fuel consumption patterns because efficiency gains will allow drivers to consume less fuel without changing their driving behavior. n65 Limiting aggressive driving behavior, driving at slower speeds, limiting the use of air conditioning, proper tire inflation, and eliminating short trips are changes that any driver can make that will increase his or her fuel efficiency. n66 Other activities that can limit fuel consumption are carpooling and tele-commuting. n67 Incentivizing eco-friendly changes in fuel consumption patterns also presents business opportunities. n68 Zipcar, for instance, is a highly successful company based on the concept of car-sharing, in which consumers pay hourly or daily rates to use a limited number of shared vehicles. n69 Currently, Zipcar's 275,000 members in the [*402] United States, Canada, and London share 5500 vehicles. n70¶ Of course, technological improvements in the vehicles themselves can also increase fuel economy. The technology to do so is readily available: the average fuel economy of European privately owned vehicles is 42 miles per gallon, while the average fuel economy of a privately owned vehicle in America is 24 miles per gallon. n71 President Obama announced in May 2009 that 2016 Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards will rise to 39 miles per gallon for cars and 30 miles per gallon for light trucks; n72 however, it is possible for automobile manufacturers to produce cars that can travel 50-60 miles per gallon. n73 Higher CAFE standards are helpful, but not sufficient to achieve the reductions in oil consumption that are necessary to shield Americans from the next oil shock. n74¶ b. Biofuels¶ ¶ Gains in fuel economy can only go so far; alternative fuels and improvements in technology are necessary elements of a successful transition away from reliance on petroleum. n75 Biofuels, then, are an important alternative source of fuel for the transportation sector. n76 The primary biofuels available in the United States are biodiesel and corn ethanol. n77 Biodiesel is especially promising because it requires no new infrastructure for transport or storage, and it can be burned in any existing diesel engine. n78 Soybean oil is currently the primary feedstock from which biodiesel is derived, but start-up companies are producing biodiesel from fast-food waste grease and algae. n79 The vast majority of vehicles sold in the U.S., however, feature internal combustion engines that burn gasoline, not diesel fuel. n80 Thus, corn ethanol - mixed with gasoline as a fuel additive - is the most widely utilized biofuel in the United States. n81 Corn, however, [*403] is not a sustainable source of fuel. n82 Some analysts suggest that sugarcane ethanol is a more sustainable source of biofuel. n83 Researchers are also developing methods to derive ethanol from cellulose, the basic component of any woody plant fiber. n84 The ability of ethanol to displace oil consumption in the short-term, however, is limited because most motor vehicles sold in the United States are not equipped to operate on pure ethanol; rather, ethanol is blended with gasoline in varying quantities and used as a fuel additive. n85 Therefore, a transition to the sustainable use of ethanol would require technological improvements in the engine design of motor vehicles sold in the United States. n86

**And, that will increase the use of nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizers that will run off into the Gulf of Mexico creating a ‘dead zone’**
Runge & Senauer ‘8 /Distinguished McKnight University Professor of Applied Economics and Law at the University of Minnesota & Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Minnesota/
[C. Ford & Benjamin, “How Ethanol Fuels the Food Crisis”, Foreign Affairs, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080528faupdate87376/c-ford-runge-benjamin-senauer/how-ethanol-fuels-the-food-crisis.html?mode=print]], May 28]
In early 2008, two articles in Science showed that forests or grasslands converted for the production of biofuels will immediately incur a "carbon debt," due to the release of carbon dioxide from biomass and soil. This long "payback" for biofuels is disappointing in light of the urgency of global warming. The second Science study demonstrated that biofuel production often displaces crops, moving them to new areas where further land-use conversions are required. In the Corn Belt of the Midwest, biofuels helped to convert nearly 20 million acres from soybean production to corn production in 2007, pushing soybean prices higher while encouraging extensive applications of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers that run off into lakes and streams, enter the Mississippi River, and eventually reach the Gulf of Mexico where they have created an oxygen-starved "dead zone." The authors found that such land-use changes nearly double greenhouse emissions over 30 years, and increase greenhouse gases for 167 years.

**And, that ecological damage triggers extinciton**
Blaire in ‘5 /Pulitzer Prize Winner, President of the environment health advocacy group, Valley Watch/
[John, Sep 5th, “Should New Orleans be Rebuilt?”, Counter Punch Newsletter, [[http://www.counterpunch.org/blair09052005.html]]]
In the past quarter century, efforts driven by environmentalists and sympathetic politicians resulted in the Grand Rivers becoming much cleaner but they remain seriously degraded in many ways. Chemical pollution from point and areas sources continue and industry still uses them to dump waste while chemical run-off from farming causes nitrogen loading which, in turn, causes depletion of oxygen which continues through the river's ecosystem. Policies of the past, both distant and recent, have resulted in ecological destruction of both the Grand Rivers and their tributaries. But maybe even more important, recent years have seen the morbid development of the "Dead Zone," extending hundreds of miles into the Gulf of Mexico from its source, the delta area of the Mississippi River, just south of New Orleans. As its name implies, the Dead Zone is dead. It no longer supports anything but the most hardy of life forms and it is growing. Oxygen depletion forces sea creatures to leave the area or die. The Dead Zone may be one of the largest ecological problems we American face. That is due to the enormous area that is drained by the entire Mississippi watershed and all the chemicals that find their way into the Gulf. But the problem is not merely with the Dead Zone. Much of the problem lies squarely with the US Army Corps of Engineers which has done everything Congress would fund to develop the Rivers for commerce, dismissing the needs of the natural world all along its path. Wetlands have been destroyed, rivers have been raised, channels have been altered and dams have been built. Together, these represent a complete assault on the natural systems that might have helped mitigate the disaster we experienced as a nation on the Gulf Coast. That is why I come now to say, "do not rebuild New Orleans!" At least not where it sits today. We should look at the disaster caused by Katrina as an opportunity, an opportunity to start correcting the arrogant policies of the past that made New Orleans so vulnerable in the first place. An effort by America to restore the Grand Rivers to their more natural state could help mitigate future natural disasters which many scientists believe will only increase the longer we ignore the dramatic problem of global climate change. Obviously, such a restoration will not take place in any short term since we currently rely on the unnatural infrastructure to move our goods out of middle America as well as to provide us easier access to goods coming from all over the world. In my view, the Grand Rivers are like an arteries and veins in the organ, Earth. They provide us sustenance and take away our waste, but, just like veins in our own bodies, if they receive too much poison, they will collapse, resulting in death, possibly to the entire body. We should not allow the opportunity that we have today to change the way we coexist with the natural world. Rebuilding a city under sea level is not only unnatural, it is also unwise. In the 18th Century, when New Orleans was settled, no one knew of the dangers they were making for man and nature. We cannot blame their ignorance for the problems we see today there or in any of the places that get ravaged each year by development that is not sustainable. However, only fools continue to make the same mistakes, over and over again. Now is the time to change that paradigm and start living in a manner that is sustainable, healthy and wise. Whether we meet the challenge and opportunity we have today depends on whether we are capable of looking forward or are forced to look backwards in a myopic reverence of the past.

**Next is monocultures**
**First, Biofuels will lead to widespread monocultures**
The Brockville Recorder and Times in ‘7
[“Ethanol plant subsidy could have been better spent”, November 7, Nexis]
But the greater concern is that grain-based ethanol subsidies are promoting an agricultural monoculture, one which depletes the natural richness of soils which is otherwise maintained through crop rotations and biodiversity. This monoculture requires ever-increasing amounts of fossil fuel-based fertilizers to maintain production.

**And, The impact is extinction**
Fowler & Mooney, Of Rural Advancement Fund International, 90 (Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity, p. ix)
While many may ponder the consequences of global warming, perhaps the biggest single environmental catastrophe in human history is unfolding in the garden. While all are rightly concerned about the possibility of nuclear war, an equally devastating time bomb is ticking away in the fields of farmers all over the world. Loss of genetic diversity in agriculture—silent, rapid, inexorable—is leading us to a rendezvous with extinction—to the doorstep of hunger on a scale we refuse to imagine. To simplify the environment as we have done with agriculture is to destroy the complex interrelationships that hold the natural world together. Reducing the diversity of life, we narrow our options for the future and render our own survival more precarious. It is life at the end of the limb. That is the subject of this book. Agronomists in the Philippines warned of what became known as southern corn leaf blight in 1061.' The disease was reported in Mexico not long after. In the summer of 1968, the first faint hint that the blight was in the United States came from seed growers in the Midwest. The danger was ignored. By the spring of 1970 the disease had taken hold in the Florida corn crop. But it was not until corn prices leapt thirty cents a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade that the world took notice; by then it was August—and too late. By the close of the year, Americans had lost fifteen percent of their most important crop—more than a billion bushels. Some southern states lost half their harvest and many of their farmers. While consumers suffered in the grocery stores, producers were out a billion dollars in lost yield. And the disaster was not solely domestic. U.S. seed exports may have spread the blight to Africa, Latin America and Asia.

**And, Food prices - Studies definitively link Biofuels production to a 30% increased global food prices in just the last few years.** 
Rosegrant in ‘8 /Director, Environment and Production Technology Division, International Food Policy Research Institute/
[Mark W., Congressional Testimony, “Biofuels and Grain Prices: Impacts and Policy Responses”, U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, May 5]
Recent dramatic increases in food prices are having severe consequences for poor countries and poor people. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) reports that food prices rose by nearly 40 percent in 2007 and made further large jumps in early 2008. Nearly all agricultural commodities—including rice, maize, wheat, meat, dairy products, soybeans, palm oil, and cassava—are affected. In response to the price hikes, food riots have occurred in many developing countries, including Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Haiti, Indonesia, Senegal, and Somalia. According to the FAO, 37 countries are now facing food crises.¶ Triggers and Underlying Factors¶ High food-price triggers have included biofuel policies, which have led to large volumes of food crops being shifted into bioethanol and biodiesel production; bad weather in key production areas, such as droughts in wheat-producing Australia and Ukraine; and higher oil prices, which have contributed to increased costs of production inputs and transportation. Prices then spiraled further as a result of poor government policies such as export bans and import subsidies, combined with speculative trading and storage behavior in reaction to these policies.¶ However, the preconditions for rapidly rising food prices stem from underlying long-term trends in food supply and demand that have contributed to a tightening of global food markets during the past decade. Rapid growth in demand for meat and milk in most of the developing world put strong demand pressure on maize and other coarse grains as feed, and small maize price increases had been projected for some time as a result. Other underlying factors include stronger economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa since the late 1990s, which has increased the demand for wheat and rice in the region; and rapid income growth and urbanization in developing Asia, which has led to increased demand for wheat, meat, milk, oils, and vegetables. On the supply side, long-term underlying factors include underinvestment in agricultural research and technology and rural infrastructure, especially irrigation, as well as increasing pressure on the natural-resource base (land and water).¶ The Role of Biofuels in Food Price Increases¶ The role of biofuel policies in the food-price hikes has become particularly controversial. The rapid increase in demand for and production of biofuels, particularly bioethanol from maize and sugarcane, has had a number of effects on grain supply-and-demand systems. Expanded production of ethanol from maize, in particular, has increased total demand for maize and shifted land area away from production of maize for food and feed, stimulating increased prices for maize. Rising maize prices, in turn, have affected other grains. On the demand side, higher prices for maize have caused food consumers to shift from maize (which is still a significant staple food crop in much of the developing world) to rice and wheat. On the supply side, higher maize prices made maize more profitable to grow, causing some farmers to shift from rice and wheat (and other crop) cultivation to maize cultivation. These demand- and supply-side effects have tended to increase the price of rice and wheat and other crops.¶ To examine the impact of alternatives to current biofuel demands, the following analyses were implemented:¶ 1)11¶ Recent food price evolution with and without high biofuel demand¶ 2)¶ Impact of a freeze on biofuel production from all crops at 2007 levels¶ 3)¶ Impact of a moratorium (elimination) on biofuel production after 2007.¶ These issues are examined using the International Food Policy Research Institute’s (IFPRI) IMPACT model (International Model for Policy Analysis of Agricultural Commodities and Trade), a partial-equilibrium modeling framework that captures the interactions among agricultural commodity supply, demand, and trade for 115 countries and the world. IMPACT includes demand for food, feed, biofuel feedstock, and other uses.¶ 1)¶ Recent food price evolution with and without high biofuel demand A comparison between a simulation of actual demand for food crops as biofuel feedstock through 2007 and a scenario simulating biofuel growth at the rate of 1990-2000 before the rapid takeoff in demand for bioethanol approximates the contribution of biofuel demand to increases in grain prices from 2000 to 2007. The percentage contribution of biofuel demand to price increases during that period is the difference between 2007 prices in the two scenarios, divided by the increase in prices in the baseline from 2000 to 2007. The increased biofuel demand during the period, compared with previous historical rates of growth, is estimated to have accounted for 30 percent of the increase in weighted average grain prices. Unsurprisingly, the biggest impact was on maize prices, for which increased biofuel demand is estimated to account for 39 percent of the increase in real prices. Increased biofuel demand is estimated to account for 21 percent of the increase in rice prices and 22 percent of the rise in wheat prices.

**And, that kills billions**
Liberman, Senior Policy Analyst in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at Heritage, 4-2-8 (Ben, “Time for Second Thoughts on the Ethanol Mandate,” Heritage Foundation WebMemo, Number 1879, http://www.heritage.org/Research/energyandenvironment/wm1879.cfm)
Not surprisingly, diverting corn from food to fuel use has raised food prices. At a little over $2 per bushel when the 2005 law was signed, the price of corn has surged above $5, primarily because a quarter of the crop is now used to produce energy. A host of corn-related foods, such as corn-fed meat and dairy, have seen sharp price increases. Wheat and soybeans are also up, partly as a result of fewer acres being planted in favor of corn. There's talk of inflation rising to levels not seen in decades as renewable mandates have conspired with other factors to drive up food prices. For corn farmers, the mandate has exceeded their wildest dreams, but for consumers, it has been an expensive double-whammy—higher costs to drive to the supermarket and higher prices once you're there. A recent study from Purdue University puts the added food cost from the renewable mandate at $15 billion in 2007—about $130 per household.[2] And that was from ethanol usage at a fraction of what will be required in the years ahead. Globally, with nearly a billion people at risk for hunger and malnutrition, the costs are far higher. Several anti-hunger organizations have weighed in heavily against current policies. An August 2007 United Nations report warns of "serious risks of creating a battle between food and fuel that will leave the poor and hungry in developing countries at the mercy of rapidly rising prices for food, land, and water."[3] There is evidence that this may already be happening, including food-related rioting in Mexico, Indonesia, Egypt, and the Philippines. 
Abelkop ‘09 - J.D., University of Iowa College of Law, 2010; B.A., Wake Forest University, PHd Student - Univ of Indiana (Adam, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393 pg lexis)
Volatile oil prices and uncertainty in the petroleum market inhibit investment in and development of desperately needed sources of clean, renewable energy. n167 The credit crisis that began in late 2008 compounds the problem. n168 Businesses and venture capitalists that were previously interested in investing in renewables are shying away from that market. n169 Worldwide financing of clean-energy projects fell by 25% in the third quarter of 2008. n170 Tight financing is especially problematic for the renewable energy companies because many of those clean-tech companies are small firms that operate on the margins. n171 Before they risk their capital on developments in clean energy technology - especially with small firms that could easily go bust - investors are waiting for a price signal from the petroleum and gasoline market that will provide them with reasonable certainty that their investments will pay off. n172¶ [*411] Renewable technology is primarily used in electricity generation, so it may seem odd that fluctuations in the price of transportation fuel would affect investments in renewables. There are, however, several connections between oil and renewable energy technology. n173 As a result, the price of oil exerts a degree of influence over investment decisions in the renewable energy industry. n174 For example, plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles are among the most promising new technologies in the transportation sector. n175 Many experts believe that electrification of the transport sector is "the only possible, practical response to the peaking of our traditional forms of energy." n176 In addition, some energy market analysts describe "the connection between oil and alternative energy [as] largely psychological ... ." n177 While the price of oil may not be the largest factor that influences investment decisions concerning electricity-generating renewables, it nevertheless seems that investors link oil to renewables by seeing the price of oil as a gauge of the general consumer appetite for alternative energy technologies: "Alternative-energy investors ... need to be aware of the price of a commodity like oil - the higher it goes the more attractive managing solar and wind farms becomes ... ." n178
And, federal incentives for solar will allow them to price out the semiconductor industry.
Hasan, President of Alternative Energy News Source, 7-26-6 (Russell, “A Research Report on Solar Power Investment: The Dawn of Solar Power,” http://www.altenews.com/Solar%20Power%20Research%20Report.pdf)
Silicon is the main raw material in 90% of solar PV cells. The cells require processed silicon. Silicon is made from silica, most commonly found in sand. The most common process to create silicon from silica uses high heat and pollutes, releasing 1.5 tons of carbon dioxide per ton of silicon. According to Professor Beckman and other sources, most of the silicon that goes into solar cells is not made directly from processed silica, rather it is made from rejects from the computer chip industry, which processes the silica for their computer chips, as the chips require high-grade silicon and solar can use the rejected, lower-grade, cheaper silicon from the computer chip industry. This makes solar silicon of lower grade than the high-grade silicon that the computer chip industry needs. Mono-crystalline silicon, silicon which is cut from a single silicon crystal, is more expensive than poly-crystalline silicon, silicon made of multiple crystals, based on the price of the rejected wafers from the computer chip industry. Silicon is very abundant in nature, in the form of sand, but it has a wide variety of uses, which requires solar manufacturers to compete with many other industries for silicon. There is a shortage of silicon for solar panels that is driving up the cost of solar and slowing solar growth. What is little understood is that there is not precisely a shortage of silicon as such, rather, the computer chip industry is giving solar companies heavy competition for all available silicon, and they are paying more for silicon than the solar industry can afford to pay, buying up the available silicon and leaving a shortage of silicon for solar manufacturing. Solar panel makers competing with computer chip makers for high grade silicon has led to a state in which silicon sells for $60 per kilogram in long term contracts and $150 per kg in short term contracts. Bloomberg reports that silicon prices have gone from $20-25/kilogram in 2004 to $100-200/kilogram in 2006. The price has gone up so sharply that Phoenix Silicon International, a silicon scrap wafer recycling company which had previously been posting losses, has recently announced record profits and increased orders, despite a $6 price increase per wafer. Solar had grown 30% annually for last five years, but the solar silicon shortage may lower growth to 10% in 2006 and 20% in 2007. This shortage of silicon has done a number of things. It has slowed solar growth by raising the price of silicon solar cells. It has also led the solar industry to invest in solar research, primarily focused on thin-film solar technology, to find ways to make solar panels without using as much silicon. Research is going into cheaper silicon production and techniques that use less silicon. Thin ribbon technology uses a laser-cut sliver of silicon, which uses half as much silicon as normal. Thin film technology is a term that applies to many different solar technologies, some of which use 1% as much silicon as normal silicon solar cells, some of which use no silicon at all. In general, thin film cells are twice the size of normal silicon cells and are 7 to 10% efficient as compared with a 15% efficiency of normal silicon cells. However, they are cheaper, and since they use far less silicon than normal silicon cells, they are very appealing because of the silicon shortage. It has been predicted that solar companies that use less silicon, such as thin-film technology companies, could escape a supply crunch in 2007 and fare better than silicon-based technology companies in 2007. This has led to investors who like solar into becoming very interested in thin-film and investing a lot of money into thin-film research. This has spurred the creation of Nanosolar, a thin-film solar company that is planning to build the largest solar cell manufacturing plant in the world, employing a patented technology that uses copper instead of silicon, and many other thin-film companies. Furthermore, the prices of solar stocks now go up and down with announcements of the acquisition or loss of stable supplies of silicon. One such instance of this was the public company silicon-based solar manufacturer GiraSolar, which issued an announcement relating to the acquisition of a supply of solar-grade silicon raw material. The thin-film craze, and everything else related to the silicon shortage, however, should be viewed with caution by investors. It may be thought that the solar silicon shortage will continue for as long as solar companies cannot outbid the high-grade computer chip manufactures for silicon. This is not true, according to most expert opinions. Reuters, Worldwatch, Marketwatch, BP Solar and Elkem Solar have all said that they believe that the solar silicon shortage will be brought to an end in 2008 by increased production of processed silicon. Elkem forecast that polysilicon supply capacity will grow to 70,000 tons in 2008 from the current level of 34,000 tons. MarketWatch of Dow Jones reported that polysilicon capacity may be 76,000 tons in 2010. Norway’s Renewable Energy Corporation, the largest manufacturer of solar grade silicon, said it would double production and build a new plant to add 6,500 tons of capacity. Another polysilicon maker, Wacker of Munich, is building a new plant with 2,500 ton capacity. Wacker will go from 5,500 tons now to 9000 tons in 2008. MEMC Electronic Materials, another silicon wafer maker, has announced plans to double its silicon capacity by 2010. China is also boosting polysilicon manufacturing to 10,000 tons annually in 2009. China’s silicon production is not as high a grade of silicon as in other countries, but it will also contribute significantly. It is reasonable according to the laws of economics to expect increased demand to lead to an increase in supply and a consequent downturn in price. Investors who are more cautious and less prone to risk could consider the predictions that the solar silicon shortage will end in 2008, and play it safe by forecasting the silicon shortage to end by 2010, when silicon capacity built in 2009 will be producing. Another way to look at the silicon shortage is from the point of view of the industry competing with solar, which is the computer chip industry. It is generally believed that every year computers become cheaper and are also capable of doing more, and with laptops it is also thought that they become smaller and more portable every year. With these high expectations from consumers, and high growth in the solar industry, the computer chip makers will themselves face pressure from the silicon shortage, and they will have to compete for silicon, and they may not always be able to bid higher for silicon than solar makers. If a variety of potential factors, including computer prices, new technology, and other market factors, were to reduce the ability of computer manufacturers to pay high prices for silicon, then computer chip makers would have to find ways to make more efficient use of their silicon, and that would also greatly reduce or eliminate the solar silicon shortage. Based on these predictions it is possible to reach certain conclusions. The main conclusion is that investors interested in short-term payoff can take advantage of the solar silicon shortage by investing in thin-film solar. Investors interested in long-term profits, who want to hold their investments beyond 2008 or 2010, should worry less about the silicon shortage and more about advantages in technology and manufacturing methods. Also, a prediction has been made, which is reasonable according to the data, is that in the post-2008 solar industry, once the solar silicon shortage is over, the rapidly growing solar industry will experience a price war in which the most cost-efficient solar technologies will come to dominate the industry. Thin-film companies with cash from 2006-2007 silicon shortage investments will be able to compete in terms of research and development, but silicon-based solar cells remain the standard, with their smaller size and higher efficiency. The solar silicon shortage has drastically affected the solar market, giving thin film a distinct price advantage in the next two years, but after that there may be a reverse reaction that will restore an advantage to silicon solar. Because of the complexity and change in solar manufacturing and technology, investors interested in a simple investment in solar may be better off putting money into an electric utility company that uses solar power, or a solar retail sales and installation company. However, there are far more public solar manufacturing and technology companies than there are public solar utilities and sales companies, and most of the solar investment activity is in solar manufacturing and technology. An investor who plans to put money into solar power should understand the differences between silicon technology and thin-film technology, which is explained in the next section. 4. Solar Technology Once the solar silicon shortage ends, the best solar companies will be the ones that can differentiate themselves from other companies on the basis of their technology and the efficiency, utility, and cost-per-watt advantages that their technology has. The area of solar technology research and development is very active, with participants such as BP, DuPont, MIT and CalTech, as well as many solar companies seeking to develop and exploit proprietary solar technology. What follows is first an overview of the basics of solar technology, and then a list of the different solar technologies that investors should know about. There are two fundamental kinds of solar, photovoltaic, which produces energy from the chemical reaction of a solar cell when hit by light, and solar thermal, which uses the heat from light to either cook, heat water, heat space, or to produce electricity from heat. Photovoltaic solar panels are normally made of either silicon cells or thin-film cells. A normal silicon solar panel is made when a silicon wafer is cut or taken from a recycled computer chip, and then treated with chemicals on the front and metal on the back to make a solar cell. Solar cells are then connected to form a solar panel. A solar power system, such as the kind that could be installed on the roof of a home, is made of the solar panels and various other attachments that depend upon the needs of the consumer. According to Solarbuzz, the solar panels may be as low as 50% of the cost of the system. Solarbuzz also claims that silicon solar panels typically wear out in 20 years, while the other parts of the system may degrade in only 5 years. In predicting the future drops in solar price, an economist would have to look not only at solar cells, but at the other components of solar systems. Those other components are needed in this way, according to Solarbuzz: a solar system can be grid connected or stand alone, depending on whether the user is connected to a power grid or not, and it can have a battery or not, depending on whether or not the solar system is being used as a backup. If it has a battery, the battery is normally lead acid or nickel cadmium, and has a 75% efficiency. If the solar output is higher than the battery can take, a charge regulator (also known as charge controller and battery regulator) is required, and the quality of the regulator will affect safety and performance. The system can also be “hybrid,” that is, it uses solar and has some other form of fuel as a backup, typically diesel. A solar panel normally produces DC, whereas most power grids use AC, so when DC (direct current) must be converted to AC (alternating current), an inverter is required. The price of a solar system, aside from the solar panels, depends on the battery, the battery regulator, the inverter, the wiring, and the installation and retail markup. Most solar systems are assembled from various parts by the retail salesman, otherwise known as the dealer, who also typically installs the system. There are three reliable certifications of solar equipment: the US standard, UL, and two international standards, IEEE or IEC. As mentioned above, the two main types of solar power are photovoltaic and solar thermal. In the US, the vast majority of solar shipments are photovoltaic, according to the DOE. According to International Energy Agency statistics, the worldwide use of solar has more solar thermal than PV. The two most popular types of solar thermal are solar water heaters and solar thermal power plants. Professor Beckman claims that solar water heating is the single most pollution-reducing type of solar equipment, with the potential to cancel as much pollution as a family car produces. The use of solar water heaters has been embraced by China. Solar thermal power plants capture sunlight and use it to heat a liquid that boils up through turbines that spin to produce electricity. IEA argues that for solar power plants, the main constraint is the very large area of land that must be used for large-scale solar electricity production. Solar thermal power plants are the most efficient in terms of the most power for a large area, and three of the most famous solar power plants, SEGS, Solar One and Solar Two, all use solar thermal. All three are in southern California, and they give 354 megawatts of solar electricity to the Los Angeles power grid. Photovoltaics are ideal for local use, on the roofs of homes and commercial buildings that want environmentally friendly energy, need backup power systems, or cannot connect to a power grid. The two kinds of PV are silicon cells and thin-film cells. The two kinds of silicon cells are mono-crystalline silicon, and multi-crystalline silicon (which is also called polysilicon). Mono-crystalline silicon is cut from a single silicon crystal, and is slightly higher priced and slightly more efficient. Multi-crystalline silicon is made from multiple small silicon crystals, and is slightly cheaper but slightly less efficient. Ninety percent of photovoltaic solar cells sold are silicon cells, as they take half as much space as thin-film and average 15% efficiency compared to thin-film’s average 7 to 10% efficiency, but thin-film has become popular recently due to the solar silicon shortage. Thin-film cells are about half as efficient as silicon cells and use twice as much area, but they are significantly cheaper and use 1% as much silicon as silicon solar cells, and sometimes use no silicon at all. The solar silicon shortage has prompted research and development of many different thin-film technologies. NanoMarkets LC, a research firm, predicts that revenues from thin-film solar cells, including technologies such as amorphous silicon, CIGS, polymers and organic dyes, may be $2.3 billion in 2011. NanoMarkets says that thin-film advantages include flexibility, weight, and ease of integration into buildings and products, but that it is at a disadvantage in terms of price per watt. US DOE data shows that in America in 2004, there were far more silicon sales than thin-film sales, that there were more multi-crystalline silicon sales than mono-crystalline sales, and that the ratio of multi-crystalline to mono-crystalline sales is going up. In spite of the large majority of the solar market going to silicon cells, the majority of investment and research is going into thin-film, largely because of the silicon shortage. The best example of this is Nanosolar. Nanosolar is a solar startup founded by a dotcom millionaire and using $125 million in venture capital, including investments from the founders of Google, E-Bay’s banker Benchmark Capital, and solar specialist Grazia Equity. Nanosolar has announced plans to build the world’s largest solar manufacturing plant, in California (although they plan to ship all their solar cells overseas to be assembled and sold in Germany). Nanosolar’s plant may have capacity as great as over 25 megawatts. Nanosolar claims that their proprietary technology, protected by multiple patents, will enable thin-film with no silicon that will be as efficient as silicon cells and cost one-fifth their price. The primary appeal of the Nanosolar method, which prints photovoltaic copper ink onto flexible foil, is that it gets around the solar silicon shortage, and it is also believed that flexible solar cells will have greater utility. Nanosolar may stumble when the silicon shortage ends, but it is an example of what solar investors must look for, companies with patented solar technologies that have some form of advantage over competitors. We will proceed to explain the various kinds of solar technologies that are being developed. Silicon solar cell technology seems to be fairly standard, and most of the technological research is focused on thin film solar. Most thin film consists of a solar absorbing substance sprayed onto a backing, or applied via gas to a backing, or, more recently, of a solar ink printed onto a backing. Thin film is named for the very thin sheet of light-sensitive material that it uses. The thin film technologies differ primarily based on the material that is used. Thin film typically uses 1% or less of the silicon of normal silicon, is cheaper, and is also sometimes flexible, but is less efficient. Thin film is often printed onto foil, making it flexible. Amorphous silicon is one thin film substance used. Amorphous silicon is silicon in a non-crystal form, with defects in its atomic bonds. A thin layer can be sprayed onto a backing to make thin film amorphous silicon. It is cheaper, but less efficient, than normal silicon, and it only absorbs the visible spectrum of light. Nano-crystalline silicon, also called micro-crystalline, is a kind of silicon that is amorphous but contains small crystals. It is easier to make than normal silicon, absorbs a broader spectrum of light than amorphous, and is flexible. Three other kinds of thin film are CIGS, cadmium telluride, and CIS. CIGS stands for copper, indium, gallium, and selenium. The chemicals are mixed to form a thin-film PV with up to 14%, or by one report 16.5%, efficiency. It uses a more complicated kind of chemical reaction than silicon. CIGS is known to get better efficiency when concentrating mirrors are used. Cadmium telluride, known as CdTe, is another kind of thin film. It has useful qualities, but has the problem that the substance is toxic. CdTe is also less efficient that silicon, although it is cheaper to manufacture. CIS, a kind of copper chalcogenide film, can be 11% efficient, but is expensive. Gallium arsenide multijuntion is a kind of thin film designed for high cost high efficiency usage, typically for special industrial use. It is comprised of layers of different thin film materials, each of which absorbs a different spectrum of light. It can be as high as 39% efficient, a number that other solar cells can only achieve in laboratory conditions and not in manufacturing conditions, but it costs $40 per square centimeter. Two area of thin film research that has received much attention are dye solar cells and organic/polymer solar cells. Dye-sensitized solar cell use an iodide electrolyte between two electrodes, one of which has titanium dioxide and dye. The dye works similarly to the photosynthesis of plants, and creates an electric current from light. It is cheap and simple to make, but wears out more quickly, as it degrades from UV light. The organic PV/polymers/small molecules class of thin film is made from organic semiconductors, polymers and small-molecule compounds. These have been known to include polyphenylene vinylene, copper phthalocyanine and carbon fullerenes. This type of thin film also degrades from UV light and wears out quickly The final type of alternative to silicon solar technology that investors should know about is quantum and nano-technology. Quantum dots are a kind of non-silicon semiconductor nanocrystal which may yeild high efficiency. However, it is still in the laboratory development stage. Renewable Energy Access reported that BP Solar and CalTech are trying to develop solar nanorods, microscopic rods of silicon that will increase the surface area of solar cells for better cost efficiency. This technology is also in the development stage. There are two kinds of PV which are more a modification of existing technology than a new type of technology. The first is transparent PV, intended for use in windows. Transparent PV is still in laboratory development, but the prototypes have reportedly demonstrated poor quality. The second is so-called “black” silicon, in which microscopic dents and bumps across the surface of the PV create a larger surface area that can be exposed to light. It is believed that this will raise efficiency, but is still in development. An investor who wants to invest in a solar manufacturing company will need to know what kind of solar technology is going to be employed in manufacture, and investors who want to put money into solar research and development companies will also need to understand the technology. What the above review of solar technologies is intended to show is that the different solar technologies each have advantages and disadvantages, and the investor will have to speculate and try to predict which set of qualities will be most appealing to solar consumers. The different factors to consider include manufacturing cost, amount of silicon required, the product’s price per watt, the product’s efficiency, and the product’s flexibility and ease of being integrated into buildings and other products. In general, all of the excitement and attention is being given to thin film research, but silicon remains the most established and widely used solar technology, and investors should not ignore solar silicon companies or research into improving silicon solar panels. Because most solar systems are assembled by the dealer, and most solar dealers operate locally, it is difficult to invest directly in solar sales companies that target a specific region, and the best solar investments may be investments in manufacturing technology. Investors should also heed the warning it is difficult to convert individual lab experiments in a laboratory environment into large-scale production in a manufacturing environment, and difficulties including loss of efficiency have resulted from the change from lab to plant. These costs must be considered when investing in a laboratory stage technology development. One interesting way to invest in solar is to ignore photovoltaics in favor of solar thermal. As we will examine in another section, much of the market for solar is in developing countries, and both solar water heating and solar power plants appeal to Third World markets. According to Professor Beckman, a solar water heater, a device with a clear front and a backing that causes water to absorb heat from sunlight, is the most pollution-reducing solar technology, and he also claims that solar thermal power plants could be easily replicated in developing countries, to maximize the solar electricity in countries that are electricity-deficient. A report by the German government on power plants found that solar thermal power plants are favorable and highly efficient, and that an operating solar thermal power plant produces the equivalent of heat from one barrel of oil at a cost of $50, and this will down to $20 in the near future. Solar thermal is often ignored in favor of the more glamorous photovoltaics, but this may change in the future. This section will conclude with a brief account of solar thermal power plant technology. Solar thermal power plants work when a solar collector heats a liquid that boils, producing steam that goes through turbines, turning the turbines to produce the electricity. The three popular kinds of solar thermal power sources are dish/engine, parabolic trough, and central power tower. A dish/engine system consists of a solar concetrator, the dish, that focuses sunlight onto a receiver that converts the light to heat, and then the engine uses the heat to move pistons. The next two technologies are more popular. In a parabolic trough, mirrors in a parabola-shaped trough focus sunlight into a pipe filled with liquid that heats. One example is SEGS in the Mojave Desert of California, which is reported to be the world’s largest solar power plant. With central power towers, a field of sun-tracking mirrors all focus sunlight to a receiver at the top of a tower that heats fluid. Examples include the Solar One and Solar Two solar power plants in California. The success of SEGS, Solar One and Solar Two indicate that in the future, if there is support for solar power plants, then the technology to do that is viable and commerically feasible. Investors who get excited about specific new solar technologies should have some caution. Silicon remains the dominant technology, there has yet to be a new thin-film solar technology that has become popular, and if the solar silicon shortage ends it will put a damper on the thin-film craze. (The one exception, as will be explained below, is that thin-film is ideal for markets in poor developing countries.) It has also been said in multiple sources that there is high cost and high risk associated with converting solar technology in research lab conditions to the conditions of mass-production manufacturing, the risk being that solar cell efficiency is compromised in favor of manufacturing solutions. There is the possibility that a new technology could take off and skyrocket to industry superiority, but investors should be very careful before they gamble on that happening. It is also reasonable to assume that in the future, solar technology trends will go in two different directions: towards the goal of high efficiency for industrialized wealthy nation markets, and towards the goal of low cost for impoverished developing country markets (these markets will be examined in the next two sections). In order to see which technologies will appeal to consumers, it is necessary to understand the markets for solar power, which will be analyzed in the next two sections. First we will look at markets in industrialized nations with government support for solar, and then developing nations in need of electrification. It is also worth noting that, according to Professor Beckman, the major factor in the development of solar is not that the technology needs to be improved, rather it is the need for solar government incentives, and some data suggests that this view is correct. 5. Solar Markets: Industrialized Nations and Government Incentives In order to forecast solar growth, an investor should understand solar markets. There are fundamentally two markets for solar, industrialized nations with government incentives, and developing countries in need of electrification. Some areas of the world are sunny, such as equatorial regions, while some areas have less sun, such as more northern areas. Solar resources, or in other words sunlight, are dispersed across the planet. Most areas have enough sunlight to take advantage of solar potential. Sunlight is free, and therefore once the solar equipment has paid for itself, or in other words the cost is exceeded by the savings, solar power is basically a completely free supply of energy. However, due to the high cost of solar equipment, solar does not compare favorably in terms of price per kilowatt-hour with conventional fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas. In situations where electricity from coming from a traditional power plant through the power lines of a power grid is available, it is necessary for there to be government solar incentives in order for solar power to compete with grid electricity in terms of price. The vast majority of citizens in industrialized nations are grid connected and do not want to pay more for power than they have. Because of the this, the main factor for solar consumption in industrialized nations is the government incentives that make solar more affordable. This idea is proven by the fact that, despite bad sun conditions potentially cutting solar power output in half, there is in general far more solar consumption in cloudy regions with solar incentives than in sunny regions with no incentives. Solarbuzz claims that solar power may cost 3 to 5 times more than grid power, and that a one peak kilowatt solar module may cost $8,000 to $12,000 and make take ten to fifteen years to pay for itself, but that the factors that can enable solar to compete with the grid are high grid rates, government incentives, a sunny environment, being able to sell excess power back through the grid to the utility, and being unable to connect to a grid. This section of this report will proceed to outline the distribution of solar resources across the planet, and then look at the governmental solar incentives in the three primary industrialized solar markets, the United States, Germany and Japan. 

**And, That destroys the semiconductor industry**
San Francisco Chronicle 9-4-6 (“Chip material shortage spooks Silicon Valley”)
Silicon Valley has weathered business cycles and foreign competition, but in recent months, a cloud has appeared on its horizon -- a shortage of the highly purified form of silicon essential to making most computer chips and solar cells. Produced by a handful of chemical plants around the world, this substance, technically known as "polysilicon," is made by putting pulverized quartz through some extraordinary refining processes to create one of the purest materials ever known. Semiconductors are based on polysilicon. So are most solar cells. As the larger and older industry, semiconductor firms have traditionally consumed most of this rare material -- leaving solar cell makers to feed off the scraps. But demand for solar cells has soared thanks in part to government stimuli such as California's "million solar roofs" initiative and the new greenhouse gas bill. Solar's growing appetite for polysilicon has pushed up prices and constricted supplies of a substance that can only be made in complex and costly plants. "In 2003, polysilicon was going for $32 a kilogram (about 2.2 pounds). Now it's more like $75 to $80," said Richard Winegarner, whose Healdsburg consulting firm, Sage Concepts, tracks this rare product. Yet even at those prices, polysilicon is getting tough to find. "You have solar procurement people traveling around the world with suitcases full of cash," Winegarner said. The shortage has already cooled the growth of solar cell production from 67 percent in 2004, to roughly 30 percent in 2005, to a projected 10 percent in 2006, according to Piper Jaffray analyst Jesse Pichel, one of the first market watchers to sound the alarm. "Solar industry growth is choked," Pichel wrote in July. So far, most chipmakers appear relatively unaffected by this polysilicon feeding frenzy, industry officials say, partly because they've been buying the stuff longer. "We have long-term price agreements, and we're comfortable with our supply,'' said Intel Corp. spokesman Chuck Mulloy. "However, we are watching the polysilicon market very carefully for the long term." But for solar cell makers, the shortage of purified silicon is an immediate threat that has them scrambling for product -- and answers. As Thomas Werner, chief executive of San Jose's SunPower Corp., asked in feigned exasperation: "How can the second most abundant element (after oxygen) in the Earth's crust be in short supply?" Of course, he and other industry insiders know it's not that simple. "There's a whole lot more to (purifying silicon) than scooping sand off the beach,'' said Bill Michalek, spokesman for MEMC Electronic Material, a polysilicon maker in Missouri. For one thing, only a handful of firms make it. They include Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. in Michigan; Wacker Chemie AG, headquartered in Germany; Tokuyama, Mitsubishi Materials and Sumitomo Titanium of Japan; and REC Group, based in Norway. Second, polysilicon plants can cost more than $200 million and take three years to bring online, said Pichel. So even though manufacturers in Korea, China and elsewhere are racing to fill the shortfall, they won't be able to ramp up production overnight. In some cases, solar cell makers have partially financed construction by prepaying for the future supply. Thomas Lane, senior research scientist with Dow Corning Corp. -- which owns a controlling interest in Hemlock -- explained how polysilicon emerges from the furnaces in which it is forged. Silicon is ubiquitous in the Earth's crust, but it is generally bound to a pair of oxygen atoms and locked up in the mineral silica. The process of creating a computer chip or silicon-powered solar cell therefore typically begins when a silica-bearing rock such as quartz gets ground down and mixed with wood in a furnace heated to about 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit. Tortured by that hellish heat, the two oxygen atoms break the bonds that hold them to the silicon and fly off with some of the carbons liberated from the burning wood. That reaction produces carbon dioxide -- and leaves behind a molten metal that is 98 percent silicon, Lane said. This 98 percent pure substance is called metallurgical grade silicon, and while it has a wide array of industrial uses -- such as a hardening agent in making steel, or getting further refined into products like the silicone caulk that homeowners use to seal leaks -- it's simply not pure enough for electronics. In fact, out of every molten vat of metallurgical grade silicon, a mere thimbleful -- less than one-half of 1 percent, according to Winegarner, the expert from Healdsburg -- goes through the final winnowing process to produce polysilicon. The exact nature of that final-stage process is covered by patents and trade secrets. But Stanford-trained materials scientist John Schumacher -- whose firm, Peak Sun Silicon in Carlsbad, is developing some new production techniques -- offered a capsule description of the final stages of purification. The metallurgical grade silicon -- "It's a metal, but it has the shape of popcorn," he said -- is essentially liquefied, then converted into gases. These gases are chemically treated and purified, and the resulting silicon is resolidified to a substance that is 99.99999 percent pure. This substance, sometimes called "seven-nines" in reference to its purity, is polysilicon. Lane, the Dow Corning scientist, offered this analogy to drive home polysilicon's exquisite purity: Imagine stringing tennis balls from the Earth to the moon, and wanting them all to be yellow. He said this would take about 5.91 billion tennis balls. For the color coding to be of semiconductor quality, "you could only tolerate two, maybe three that were orange," Lane said. For solar cells, which are slightly less demanding, Lane said, "You could tolerate five or six orange balls." Tough as it is to make, and scarce though it may be right now, polysilicon is an industrial commodity subject to gluts -- such as occurred when the dot-com collapse hurt high-tech sales. "It was only three to four years ago when the semiconductor industry was holding what were called 'reverse auctions' where you essentially got all your suppliers on the phone and tried to squeeze more (price reductions) out of them,'' Winegarner said. Robert Bushman used to run Silicon Recycling Services, a Southern California firm that resold scrap polysilicon left over from semiconductor production lines to solar cell makers. Bushman, who sold his firm in February to a German solar cell maker hungry for polysilicon, said the beating manufacturers took during the glut has made them leery of expanding capacity. "When they were down and bleeding red, the semi guys came back and forced down the prices," Bushman said. In addition, perhaps, to soothing their past wounds with a little profit-taking now, the makers of seven-nines have another reason not to rush new capacity to meet the solar-driven demand, said Colby Banker of Connecticut-based Unimin Corp., which sells equipment to polysilicon makers. "They've been hesitant to increase production because the (solar) market is based on big subsidies ... (that) could be withdrawn,'' Banker said. As Pichel, the Piper Jaffray analyst, wrote in one report: "The solar industry is addicted to welfare" -- a reference to rules in place, notably in Germany, that require utility companies to buy back excess power from roof-based solar arrays at attractive rates, thus giving consumers incentive to install them. While the current polysilicon shortage weighs most heavily on solar cell makers, chip companies also have a stake in this common feedstock. "I know this whole polysilicon situation has caught the attention of the major chipmakers,'' said Dan Tracy, research director for Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International. Asked whether chipmakers have been affected, Doug Andrey, principal analyst for the Semiconductor Industry Association, the trade group representing chipmakers, chose his words with care: "We have not heard of any widespread, general problems of ... availability," he said. "But given the strong demand for silicon from the solar industry, there is a possibility of some spot shortages." 

**That destroys hegemony**
Lieberman, Senator from Connecticut, 3 (Joe, “A semiconductor base in peril” Signal, November)
The changing composition of the semiconductor industry, combined with foreign government action that has leveraged market forces, has resulted in the shift of chip manufacturing from the United States to offshore locations, particularly China and East Asia. This migration has substantial national security ramifications, as the transformation of this nation's military into a network-centric force requires high-end semiconductor chips to provide the processing power for numerous defense applications. The loss to the U.S. economy of the high-end semiconductor manufacturing sector, the potential subsequent loss of the semiconductor research and design sectors, and the grave national security implications that this would entail are items of major concern. If the ongoing migration of the chip manufacturing sector to East Asia continues, the U.S. Defense Department and U.S. intelligence services will lose both first access and assured access to secure advanced chip-making capability-just at the time that these components are becoming a crucial defense technology advantage. The past decade has seen much debate about the revolution in military affairs. Some see the recent growth in military capability as merely evolutionary, while others believe that the increase in capabilities has taken place within the context of a broader-and even revolutionary-change in how the United States prepares for and wages war. The military is undergoing a true revolution, and it is likely that order of magnitude advances will occur with increasing speed. These advances will change the United States' way of fighting war in profound and fundamental ways. Regardless of the dispute over the nomenclature of the transformation that is currently sweeping over the U.S. military, all observers agree that it has achieved a dramatic increase in capabilities over the past decade. The U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard are able to see through the so-called fog of war better now than ever before. They are able to decide on a course of action and act upon that decision with speed and precision never before attained. These improved capabilities are, as Vice Adm. Arthur Cebrowski, USN (Ret.), believes, based on dramatic new theories of warfare. These theories in turn are made manifest by the relatively recent and extraordinary advances in information technology. The key to the new way of war is the ability to acquire, move, store, assess and use massive amounts of information in near-real-time in networks of ever-increasing scale. This network-centric warfare capability is the core of U.S. military dominance today, and it is the key to continued dominance in the 21st century.

**Nuclear war**
Gray, Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, and founded of the National Institute for Public Policy, 4 (Colin, The Sheriff: America’s Defense of the New World Order)
The United States could pick up its military ball and go home. It could choose to rely for world order on the hidden hand of universal commercial self-interest somewhat guided by such regional and local balances and imbalances of power as may be extant or might emerge. In effect, frequently this would translate as a green light for regional bullies to mark out their territories (and sea space and air space). Thus far, the contemporary United States is showing no persuasive evidence of an inclination to bring itself home as a political military influence. The issue is not whether America’s skills in statescraft are fully adequate for the sheriff role (whose would be?). Rather, it is whether there is to be a sheriff at all. If the United States declines the honor, or takes early retirement, there is no deputy sheriff, waiting, trained and ready for promotion. Furthermore, there is no world-ordering mechanism worthy of the name which could substitute for the authority and strength of the American Superpower. At present there is no central axis of a balance of power to keep order, while the regional balances in the Middle East and South and East Asia are as likely to provoke as to cool conflict – and conflict with weapons of mass destruction (WMD) at that.

===1NR=== 
**The supply shortage means there won’t be enough for the semiconductor industry, which causes it to collapse which cripples our hegemony – Semiconductors are critical to future military superiority – Nuclear war.**
TheStreet.com 12-5-5 (“MEMC Shines as Play on Silicon Shortage”)
There is a shortage of silicon to go around the semiconductor and solar power industries, and MEMC Electronic Materials (WFR:NYSE) is benefiting. Though shares are up 37% to $23.24 since I first highlighted the stock in August, there is no reason to expect ample silicon supplies to come online anytime soon, and MEMC's growth appears limited only by its ability to execute, though I doubt this will be an issue. Very few publicly traded companies offer a way to play a silicon shortage, but MEMC, which I found using CapitalIQ to search for companies with silicon exposure, is stealthily becoming a favorite among more speculative investors. The company produces wafers for the semiconductor industry and the solar power industry, but its leverage to solar power remains so far under the radar that it's not even mentioned in the MEMC's description on some financial Web sites. Surge in Solar Powers Silicon According to data from First Albany's alternative energy team, the solar power industry's consumption of silicon represented 40% of total silicon usage in 2004. This is somewhat surprising when you consider that the entire global solar power market would hardly be enough to power New York City for any considerable length of time. Even so, based on the 30% annual growth rate of the solar industry worldwide, it is not a stretch to assume the solar industry will soon grab the top spot for silicon consumption. Silicon supply constraints have led to a doubling in the price of polysilicon, the type of silicon used by the solar industry, over the last 18 months. Because of this surge, MEMC has executed an operational turnaround without experiencing a sharp decline in operating profits. Recent Stumbles However, management has had a few missteps that I believe have affected the shares. Most recently, on Nov. 15, MEMC restated its revenue and earnings slightly lower for the first three quarters of 2005 due to a change in revenue recognition policy. The revenue will be recorded this quarter. The restated results were largely as Wall Street expected and had no impact on the stock price. As a side note, MEMC confirmed that pricing for its wafers remains strong, and that it expects prices to increase by 4% in 2006; I don't expect any more earnings issues going forward. Also, 25% stakeholder Texas Pacific Group was a big seller of the stock over the summer, and the fresh supply is probably what has weighed on the share price. While TPG continues to hold a sizable stake in the company and further sales are possible, strong industry trends and improving investor sentiment are likely to more than mitigate them. Strong Trend, Indeed Germany, Japan and the U.S. represent the three largest solar power markets in the world. Tax incentives and government subsidies coupled with skyrocketing oil and natural gas prices have improved the cost/benefit equation for solar power generation. The break-even period for businesses that elect to install solar panels is approaching the critical three-year time period; 40% of respondents to a survey conducted by First Albany said they would consider using alternative energy products if they could recoup installation costs within three years. As costs come down and solar installations increase, the supply/demand imbalance probably will exacerbate the shortage further. For decades, silicon was mainly a feedstock for the semiconductor industry to make chips, and supply has been more than adequate to meet demand even during the peak of the dot-com bubble. However, the proliferation of solar power as an economical and clean power source has changed this dynamic dramatically. Now solar power producers are scrambling to lock in supplies as far out as contractually possible. Silicon producers are doing their best to bring new capacity online. Most recently, German company Siltronic announced plans to spend about $150 million to expand one of its plants. But growth in solar power consumption is likely to outstrip any additional supplies for the foreseeable future. That said, UBS said in a research note it expects silicon supply to expand only 13% in 2006 to 34,000 tons, which probably won't be enough to cover the surge in demand from the solar power industry. 

**And, Semiconductor industry is critical to our overall technological leadership – It outweighs their advantages because its our entire economy and all other technology relies on it**
Ehrlich ‘08, one of the nation’s leading business economists – President of ESC Company & former Executive Director of the CSIS Commission on Public Infrastructure, 8 (Everett, “Manufacturing, Competitiveness and Technological Leadership in the Semiconductor Industry: An assessment of the economic impacts of the proposed joint venture project of AMD and the Advanced Technologies Investment Corporation to build and operate the Fab 4X semiconductor foundry manufacturing project in Saratoga County, New York,” http://web.amd.com/newglobalfoundry/Fab4xEconomicStudy.pdf)
The U.S. semiconductor industry is both an economic anomaly and, at the same time, a vindication of what economists preach. It is an anomaly because of the way it stands out in the U.S. economy and among U.S. manufacturing industries. While U.S. manufacturing has lost employment annually since 1998, employment in semiconductor manufacturing, after bottoming out following the demise of the technology boom at the beginning of the decade, was higher in 2006 than it was in each of the three preceding years. In fact, about two out of every hundred jobs in American manufacturing today is involved in the production of semiconductors or the capital goods used to make them. Moreover, these are among the best jobs manufacturing offers. Even in New York, where the Fab 4X facility will be built, and where the average private industry wage is the second highest among the fifty states (owing to the presence of a variety of high-end services), the differential between semiconductor and other jobs’ wages is still over 50 percent. And while the U.S. trade deficit has burgeoned, the semiconductor industry persists in being a national export champion. Behind the aircraft industry, the semiconductor industry is the largest net exporter in the manufacturing economy – it sells abroad fully 77 percent of its output. U.S. semiconductor exports totaled $52.4 billion in 2006 (having grown by more than 10 percent in dollar terms in that year), and produced a trade surplus of $25 billion. Semiconductors are an exception to more pervasive, negative trends in the economy because they abide by vaunted economic rules – they increase their value through innovation and investment. The semiconductor industry invested over $18 billion in research and development in 2006, the last year for which we have data, or over 15 percent of sales in that year. This constitutes about one out of every 12 dollars spent on R&D in the U.S. by private industry, and one out of every 8 dollars spent by U.S. manufacturing. And beyond this commitment to research, the industry made capital expenditures of $14.9 billion in 2006. The semiconductor industry spends the highest proportion of its revenues on capital expenditures of all U.S. manufacturing industries, as this chart demonstrates. In fact, it leads all manufacturing in investment in both equipment – the etchers and other highly sophisticated machinery that produce semiconductors – and structures – the buildings that house them. The beneficiaries of this burgeoning investment, innovation, and productivity growth have been the consumers of a wide array of products, ranging from health care imaging and diagnostic devices, to energy saving features for commercial and residential equipment, to weather modeling supercomputers, to the PC on your desktop, to the telecommunications equipment that drives the Internet. The semiconductor has become to our time what the steam engine was to civilization 250 years ago – the gateway to a new economy. But it has transformed economic life more rapidly and pervasively than James Watt’s invention did. The ability to turn any fact, creation, image, sound, or other phenomenon into digital information, and to move it and use it virtually without cost, has fundamentally changed every aspect of the contemporary economy. It has restored productivity growth to the levels it achieved in the decades immediately following the Second World War, after two decades of post-OPEC decline. It has allowed companies, government agencies and other institutions to function more efficiently with fewer resources and lower costs. It has allowed the economy to free up hundreds of billions of dollars in inventories, parts and components, and other redundancies by creating seamless supply chains. It has allowed our firms to restructure themselves, focusing their strategies and investment on their core skills and allowing network-based production chains, partnerships and electronic commerce to supplement their focus. The global economy, in turn, has become a more efficient and productive one. The investment and innovation embodied by facilities like the proposed Fab 4X factory in Saratoga County, New York has allowed semiconductor devices to leap out of the computer and into a host of now-ubiquitous applications – digital televisions, MP3 players, cell phones, and beyond – such that the value of the electronics in the average automobile now far exceeds the cost of the steel that goes into it. As one economist once put it, the semiconductor is an epochal innovation in the truest sense of the word – more money will be made using it than producing it.2 Job Creation and Economic Growth in the Empire State After a global search, AMD chose to locate the facility in Saratoga County because the area has the ingredients necessary to develop and sustain a world-class advanced semiconductor manufacturing facility: a skilled workforce, colleges and universities with highly competitive engineering and related programs, a growing number of technology firms and research and development efforts, proximity to strategic partners such as IBM, and competitive incentives to attract investment and job creation. Central to New York’s strategy to attract technology investment is the Empire State Development Corporation’s Empire Zones program, which was initiated with bipartisan support from state leaders. Along with IBM’s R&D facilities in East Fishkill, New York, Fab 4X will play an integral role in establishing upstate New York as a global semiconductor and nanotech cluster. This “Tech Valley” corridor currently has over $13 billion invested in technology-related facilities, either by corporations or local and regional educational and technical training institutions that graduate thousands of highly skilled workers each year. In addition to IBM, leading-edge innovation firms that are contributing to a growing global presence in the region include Tokyo Electron and German semiconductor company Infineon. In fact, over 250 companies now operate in the area, and the Fab 4X will accelerate dramatically the economic expansion in the region. The agglomeration of these firms and other institutions, now to be joined by the Fab 4X facility, is an important event in terms of advancing the state of the art for semiconductor manufacturing and the next-generation microprocessors it will produce. But it also reinforces the synergies that are part of the “clustering” economic strategy for New York’s Capital Region. Regions are subject to the same economic forces as nations – they must develop competitive advantages and sustain them through unrelenting innovation and investment in order to thrive.3 When firms with similar interests and competencies locate in the same area – as semiconductor companies have in California’s Silicon Valley, in Austin, Texas, and now in the Albany region, suppliers, skilled workers, investors, and other groups associated with the industry locate near them, for obvious reasons. This improves the economic fertility of the region and, in turn, produces a virtuous cycle of growth. The state’s development strategy sought out candidates for this type of clustering using three criteria: a technologically intense sector; the ability to serve global markets; and a reliance on skills found in the state. The nanotechnology focus logically fits this bill and is now bearing fruit. 3 Michael Porter, The Competitive Advantage of Nations, 148-165 (1990). Moreover, the contribution that a new, state-of-the-art facility will make to furthering the strategy raises the possibility that even more advanced manufacturing facilities will be constructed in the region. It is not possible to calculate directly the job or payroll benefits of a world-class innovation “cluster”. But that does not diminish the value of a “virtuous cycle” of technology leadership. The self-reinforcing leadership that comes from the continuous interplay of innovation and knowledge between industries, research institutions, including institutions of higher education, and local governments has been established as a fundamental driver of business creation, growth and regional economic success – the kind of success that translates into additional jobs, tax revenues and investment. Of course, the Fab 4X facility will have great significance in the local and regional economy. AMD has had an economic presence in New York , going back to its decision to conduct R&D together with IBM at the latter’s facility in 2003. The Fab 4X project is expected to spend some $4 billion to build and tool the plant. This project will generate permanent, direct employment, stimulate the economy in the short-term, create collateral jobs supporting the new workforce, and support the stimulative effect of the larger Upstate nanotechnology cluster. That economic activity will come at a critical time: • Over the past year, New York has seen a 3.3 percent decrease in manufacturing jobs – or 18,300 jobs. (The Public Policy Institute of New York State, Inc.) 14 • Unemployment in the New York Capital Region (including Saratoga County), for July 2008 was 5.0 percent – up .1 percent from the previous month. (New York State Department of Labor) • From July 2007 to July 2008, the Albany-Schenectady-Troy region lost 1,000 private sector jobs. (New York State Department of Labor) • In the past decade, New York has seen 30.6 percent of the state’s manufacturing jobs lost. (The Public Policy Institute of New York State, Inc.) As disclosed in the Grant Disbursement Agreement with the State of New York, AMD has committed to hire a minimum of 1,205 full-time employees at its facility by the beginning of 2014. But AMD has also disclosed to the town of Malta, NY, as part of the local zoning process, that the estimated full-time employment at the Luther Forest campus could reach 1,465 by the end of that year. We use the latter number in this analysis. In a related analysis of the employment generated by fabrication facilities, the research firm Semico demonstrated that for each eight manufacturing jobs at a fab, approximately three other jobs are created in on-site services in such areas as computer sales and maintenance, fab garment cleaning, delivery services, maintenance, security, and others. This suggests about 550 jobs related to the fab over and above its direct manufacturing employment of 1,465. 15 Both of these classes of jobs would create income and economic activity in the local economy, a phenomenon known as the “multiplier effect.” In the Grant Disbursement Agreement, the State of New York concluded that “for each permanent, direct job generated by this project, an additional 2.25 indirect jobs are anticipated in the state’s economy.” This means that the 1,465 manufacturing jobs and 550 on-site service jobs created by the AMD plant, or slightly over 2,000 jobs in all, would produce an additional 4,500 jobs in the overall economy. During the construction of the wafer fabrication facility and associated administration, engineering, and central utility buildings, the estimated construction related workforce would reach about 1,600 employees. That estimated workforce will vary depending on the time allotted to complete the project – a shorter schedule demands more workers but over a shorter period of time. Following the estimating convention used by Semico (which is distinct from New York State’s analysis of full-time workers), construction jobs are estimated to have a multiplier of 1.7, so that construction-related employment, including multiplier effects, could total as high as 4,320 while the facility is being built. To calculate payrolls, an annual wage of $60,000 was assumed for all fab employees; this is lower than the national average for the semiconductor industry because a fabrication facility may not employ as many highly-paid engineers as would, say, a design facility. An average annual wage of approximately $64,000 was assumed for construction employment, and a wage of $40,000 was assumed for on-site service and “multiplier” jobs. 16 The relevant wage rates were then multiplied by the estimated job creation to arrive at payrolls. Thus, the 1,600 construction jobs yield a total payroll of $102 million, and the associated 2,700 “indirect” jobs a total payroll of $108 million during the construction phase. The 1,450 manufacturing jobs are projected to produce a payroll of $88 million, and the 550 associated, on-site service jobs an added $22 million, with the 4,500 “indirect” jobs adding $180 million, yielding a sustained annual payroll of $290 million during Fab 4X operations. Preserving American Leadership New York’s leadership in nanotechnology directly promotes U.S. competitiveness. Right now, U.S. technological leadership is being challenged. While semiconductor output is growing rapidly, the world market is growing at an even more rapid rate and U.S. market share is declining. Moreover, the U.S. is not keeping up with regard to creating new and cutting-edge capacity. The U.S. share of what the Semiconductor Industry Association classifies as “leading edge” chip production is declining. In fact, the Fab 4X facility is the only 300mm, 22nm fab currently slated to be constructed in the U.S. (The Luther Forest AMD facility will begin manufacturing product at the 32nm node, and will later move to 22nm technology as the availability of product designs, and customer demand move in that direction.) Other than for R&D purposes, the last major 300mm production facility built in the U.S. prior to this one was built in 2007, and no others are now known to be contemplated. What is technological leadership and why is it important? Economists understand that an economy cannot be “best” at everything. But being best at the right things is a critical part of maintaining the long-term U.S. standard of living. Long-term leadership in the semiconductor industry is a matter of more than output and employment, although these obviously accrue to leadership. Leadership allows U.S. manufacturing firms to set the research agenda for the global industry, and lets the U.S. be the innovation leader for the entire semiconductor value chain, including not just production, but design and engineering and research and development. This is critical to the U.S.’ long-term prospects because foreign competitors have their own advantages, including the ability to imitate U.S. innovations. Moreover, competitors may be advantaged by tax policies, labor costs, or, as is sometimes alleged, trade protection, corporate governance practice, or outright subsidy. The only way for the U.S. to sustain its competitiveness, therefore, is to stay ahead of its competition through innovation. – to be the rabbit that the greyhounds chase but never catch. Industry leadership has other benefits. For example, the industry relies on a variety of engineering standards to which all firms comply, such as those of the International Standards organization regarding quality. The National Institute for Science and Technology plays a leading role in the promulgation of those standards, but only because of American technological leadership. Absent that leadership, influence over the development of industry standards could migrate to other organizations outside the U.S. Conclusion The benefits to New York and the United States from the construction of the Fab 4X project will be both tangible and important, including: 􀂄 A $4 billion plus capital investment to complete the Fab 4X facility; 􀂄 Permanent employment of about 1,465 workers at the new manufacturing facility by the end of 2014, and an added 550 in related on-site services provided to the project; 􀂄 In the interim, construction-related employment of about 1,600 workers in the years 2010, 2011 and 2014, with an added 2,700 “multiplier” jobs, supporting a total payroll of about $210 million; 􀂄 The creation of an additional 4,500 “indirect” jobs, supported by the economic activity created by the Fab 4X project, which, together with the direct jobs, would be expected to generate an annual payroll of approximately $290 million; and 􀂄 A stronger New York State nanotechnology “cluster”, which provides the benefits of technology leadership to Upstate New York and to the United States generally. The semiconductor is the landmark innovation of our economic age. The decision to build the world’s most advanced fabrication facility in Upstate New York is a milestone on several levels: as a step towards ever smaller, faster, and cheaper microprocessors that fuel productivity improvements; as a building block of American technological leadership in the industry; and as an integral part of a strategy for economic growth and high-wage employment for New York.

**Turns economy** 
Andersen ‘07, Senior Fellow at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces at the National Defense University, 7 (Lieutenant Colonel James, “Industry Study: Final Report: Electronics Industry,” Spring)
The electronics sector and the semiconductor industry have played an important part in driving the growth of the global economy. Through continuous performance improvements and decreasing costs, ICs embedded in electronics devices, computers, routers, servers and telecommunications equipment make it possible to link the world in ways never before possible. This fosters the worldwide flow of information, making it possible to conduct business virtually anywhere on the globe instantaneously. According to the National Research Council (NRC), “the strong performance and development of the U.S. economy in recent years is rooted in the investment in, and subsequent application of, information technologies ultimately driven by modern semiconductor technology” (NRC, 2003, p.1). The electronics industry also provides innovations, efficiencies and advanced technologies that improve the productivity of individual workers and organizations, grow the economy, and provide our military with unprecedented advantages in all forms of warfare. With that in mind, one must seriously consider the potential economic and security impact caused by the migration of fabrication capabilities to offshore locations, and the gradual shift of domestic semiconductor design and R&D that may follow. Companies must be vigilant against the transfer of technologies and knowledge to potential peer competitors, particularly in countries that ignore international agreements to protect intellectual property (IP). The shifting of semiconductor activities to Asia also may have long term consequences on U.S. economic strength, which is critical to national security. According to the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), the U.S. industry currently employs approximately 232,000 people— down from over 260,000 in 1998 (SIA, 2007b). As value chain activities move offshore, this number may continue to fall. The economic impact of higher end value chain activities, such as design, moving offshore is even greater as this change results in the loss of high paying engineering jobs and associated design expertise. The semiconductor industry is a vital foundation of the broader electronics industry, one of the largest and fastest growing industries in the world. This industry, which had estimated sales of $1,504B in 2006, is expected to grow at 8.25% over the next three years, or nearly double the rate of the world Gross Domestic Product (SEMI, 2007; Central Intelligence Agency [CIA], 2007). If the United States loses its design lead in semiconductors, it also may lose market share in the overall electronics industry which could hurt its future economic strength in a technology driven world. While activities in other regions of the world must be monitored, the Asia-Pacific region is of particular concern due to its rapid growth, strategic intent in attracting foreign investment and technology, direct and indirect barriers to free trade in the past, and IP infringement.

**And, Semiconductors are critical to the human genome project**
Damuth ‘98, Director of Policy Studies at Nathan Associates Inc., 98 (Robert, “America’s Semiconductor Industry: Turbocharging the U.S. Economy,” Prepared for the Semiconductor Industry Association)
John Steele Gordon reminds us of the biotechnology field’s debt to the semiconductor.41 Without the semiconductor and the computers it powers, DNA scientists would be unable to accomplish their task of mapping the human genome. Special silicon microchips are required to speed the mathematics used in sequencing the genome’s three billion DNA base pairs.42 Today it takes imagination to appreciate the benefits of unlocking the secrets of DNA. Understanding our genetic profiles will help us predict, prevent, and cure disease. New pharmaceuticals will be developed at lower cost. Biologists will be able to engineer substitutes for blood vessels, heart valves, bone, skin, and cartilage. Biologists will be able to develop drought and pest resistant crops that grow faster and are richer in nutrients. Biologists are already developing bacteria that absorb or digest environmental toxins. These biotechnology advances were and will continue to be made possible by advances in semiconductor technology. They will extend and improve the quality of our lives, and enable us to be more productive.

**Moral obligation to vote negative**
Callahan ‘01, Ph.D. & Director of the Hastings Center, 1 (Daniel, “TRANSFORMING MORTALITY: TECHNOLOGY AND THE ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES,” University of Southern California Law Review, November, 65 S. Cal. L. Rev. 205)
Imbedded in the historical changes I have sketched is still another logic, which I will call the "moral logic" of medical progress. By "moral logic" I mean the way in which progress, in the initial sense of scientific possibility, becomes a moral imperative: what can be known, ought to be known, and what can be done, morally ought to be done. The "could" of medical possibility quickly transmutes into the "ought" of moral necessity. To trace the unfolding of this moral logic, we might first recollect a key feature of the modern history of medical thought. Though in many ways a conservative discipline, medicine gradually became by the end of the nineteenth century one of the most enthusiastic acolytes of the Enlightenment idea of progress. Through basic biological knowledge and its clinical application, medicine can constantly advance the frontier of human health. The possibilities of progress are unlimited. This is now an article of faith in modern medicine, a faith well supported by the evidence of past success and the reasonable likelihood of continuing success. The scope of progress includes not only increased knowledge and technical skills, but it permeates as well our notions of the ends of medicine, the meaning of health, and the ways in which human lives can be led. In that sense the idea of progress is an enormous intensifier of the historical stages described earlier; it gives them their animating force. What is the "moral logic" of this process? It is the way in which the scientific imperative of medical progress, now part of the very idea of science, is broadened to include a moral imperative. If we do not pursue the conquest of disease, we are open to moral blame: people will die who need not die. If we do not use our newly available or potential technologies to save lives, we can be held accountable for the loss of those lives. The hidden, but hardly arcane, premise here is that we have a duty to relieve suffering and to save life, and that if medical progress makes that possible, then we are obliged to pursue it. The pursuit, for example, of the Genome Project, the mapping of the human genome, is desirable not just because it is scientifically exciting. Its promise of the cure or relief of genetic disease creates a powerful moral demand: pursue this project or be forever guilty of abandoning those who suffer and die from genetic disease. If we believe it morally necessary to save through heart transplants the lives of those who would otherwise die, how can we not pursue the artificial heart, to save those who are not candidates for transplants?


**The glut is over and there will be a silicon shortage by 2015**
BERNREUTER RESEARCH on 9-25
[http://www.photon.de/newsletter/document/70078.pdf]
After a shakeout of nearly¶ 40 manufacturers, the polysilicon industry will slowly recover from oversupply¶ by 2014. 2015 could already see the harbingers of a new polysilicon shortage.¶ This is one of the conclusions of the new market research report The 2012 Who’s¶ Who of Solar Silicon Production, which Bernreuter Research today presented during the 27¶ th¶ European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference in Frankfurt/Main,¶ Germany. Polysilicon, the feedstock for the semiconductor and photovoltaic¶ (PV) industries, glutted the market in 2011 when the annual production volume¶ of 255,000 metric tons (MT) exceeded demand by 25,000 MT.¶ The scenario of future demand which Bernreuter Research has developed is¶ more aggressive than forecasts of other analysts. “Several indicators we investigated point to new PV system installations of up to 37.5 gigawatts in 2012,” says ¶ Johannes Bernreuter, head of Bernreuter Research and author of the new report.¶ The market researcher examined 72 analyst forecasts made about global PV¶ installations from 2008 through 2011. He found that the forecast average r mained more than 30% below the actual results.

**The silicon shortage means the ONLY WAY solar can expand is with increased incentives which allow them to outbid semiconductor companies – Zero sum tradeoff**
Gartner, of wired.com, 5 (“Silicon Shortage Stalls Solar,” http://www.wired.com/science/planetearth/news/2005/03/67013)
As demand for clean energy continues to grow, the solar industry forecasts millions of photovoltaic systems will dot the landscape by the end of the decade. However, a severe shortage of the silicon used in the systems threatens to dampen solar's growth. According to a recent solar-energy report from the nonprofit Energy Foundation, the U.S. solar industry could grow by more than $6 billion per year if the technology becomes cost-competitive with electricity from fossil-fuel sources. Technology improvements are expected to reduce some of the cost difference over the next five years, but the federal government also needs to increase tax incentives for producing and purchasing solar energy, according to Energy Foundation Vice President David Wooley. "They took it from a pathetic level to laughable and ridiculous," said Wooley, referring to the current federal funding level for solar energy. Wooley recommends a federal incentive plan similar to Germany's, which gives a rebate to customers for each hour of electricity produced by solar energy. The production of solar energy grew by 152 percent in Germany last year, compared with 27 percent growth in the United States, according to a report issued earlier this month by consulting firm Solarbuzz. Solarbuzz reports that new solar capacity increased in 2004 by 62 percent over the previous year to 927 megawatts, but the industry could have difficulties finding the raw materials needed to match that growth in 2005. "There is a definite shortage of silicon out there right now," said Gary Homan, vice president of Hemlock Semiconductor, which manufactures polycrystalline silicon that is used in semiconductors and photovoltaic cells. Homan said that from 2000 to 2004, silicon manufacturers could not justify capital investments because the price for their products in the solar industry had dropped to less than $30 per kilogram, or below many companies' costs. Demand for silicon from semiconductor manufacturers and the solar industry has increased sharply since then, and the price has nearly doubled, Homan said. Companies in the spot silicon market (covering the purchase of smaller amounts for short-term needs) are now willing to pay up to $80 per kilogram of silicon -- if they can find anyone to sell it to them, Homan said. Hemlock Semiconductors is incrementally increasing production by 30 percent in 2005, but silicon producers such as Hemlock cannot catch up with demand without building new facilities. "It takes three years to build a new polysilicon plant," Homan said, so the shortage of silicon could last until 2008. Semiconductor manufacturers are able to outbid solar companies for the available silicon because the material makes up a much smaller portion of their production costs, Homan said. "We are getting into a pricing war" between industries, Homan said. Competition will likely increase, as the semiconductor industry is expected to grow by 10 percent in 2007 and 15 percent in 2008, according to analyst firm Gartner. 
And, There isn’t enough silicon to go around – The solar industry is taking up all the excess supply now – Increasing their economic power allows them to outbid the semiconductor industry
Kraueter, TheStreet.com Staff Reporter, 8-31-5 (“Hazy Skies Forecast for Cypress' SunPower, TheStreet.com)
The polysilicon supply-and-demand situation has played itself out in the form of higher wafer prices during the past year. Polysilicon contract prices are up to $45 a kilogram from the mid-$30s one year ago, with bidding expected to reach $60 a kilogram next year as shortages become more dire. While the entire semiconductor industry is affected, silicon solar companies are especially vulnerable because of the specialized poly they require. Indeed, it's the silicon solar market that has helped create the current shortage. Demand for solar power is booming thanks to higher energy prices, government subsidies to promote solar power, and improved solar-power efficiencies. The amount of silicon devoted to solar power, in terms of wafer area, outstripped that of silicon for traditional semiconductors last year. Further, the demand surge has caught poly producers short, and capacity additions likely won't catch up to supply for at least 18 months. "The solar market has grown to the point where it is consuming all of what was excess silicon supply," said Richard Winegarner, a principal with Sage Concepts who has been researching the silicon market for 20 years. "For the next three years at least, there will be a shortage of capacity to supply both the semiconductor market and the solar market."


**And, The reason solar can’t keep up with semiconductors is because of decreased subsidies. The plan make it so they can outbid the semiconductor industry.**
Electrical Wholesaling 9-1-7 (“Growing Toward the Sun”)
A further complication hit the solar electrical market around 2004. The industry had been ramping up production in anticipation of demand growth, when it hit a snag. The silicon used to make most of the common PV modules was suddenly scarce as semiconductor manufacturers enjoying the recovery from the dot-com recession began to suck up most of the available supply. Combined with rising demand in Europe, primarily Germany, where customers were willing to pay a premium for photovoltaics, the shortage led to a 10-fold jump in prices for the refined silicon needed for solar panels. "We still are not finished with that shortage. They're telling us this will continue into the middle of next year," Mizany says. Meanwhile, California's new CSI program is structured so that the rebates get smaller over the program's 10-year life, based on the assumption that increased volume would lower component prices. "Now, the rebate is going down, prices are going up, and this makes it difficult for the industry to grow," Mizany says.
Federal incentives are the only way solar can beat the semiconductor industry in a price war
Mints ‘05, Senior Photovoltaic Analyst for Strategies Unlimited, 6-1-5 (Paula, “Achieving the potential: in the midst of another period of a rapid expansion, there are major issues which must be addressed this time round if the PV market is to overcome its growing pains and reach maturity; photovoltaic,” Power Engineering International)
Supply constraints and demand spurts continue to take the PV industry by surprise, despite historical context for both. The industry has typically not done a good job of supply chain management. For one thing, there are still too few dedicated suppliers of solar grade silicon. For another, even silicon suppliers who promise the PV industry a dedicated supply generally only commit to a fraction of the industry's requirement. Meanwhile, PV's demand for silicon continues to grow. In 2004, semiconductor industry and PV industry demand for silicon was on the order of 32 000 tonnes, of which approximately 41 per cent came from the PV industry. Assuming current industry growth, by 2006, PV industry demand for silicon should be equal to that of the semiconductor industry. Though an argument can be made for the maturing of the semiconductor industry (and thus the slowing in demand), when push comes to shove, silicon suppliers will continue to sell to the highest bidder putting a financial and supply strain on PV wafer and cell manufacturers. Case in point, in 2004, the PV industry was forced to pay close $50to/kg for its silicon feedstock, double the price paid in previous years. Historically, the semiconductor industry has understood and proved willing to pay a higher price for its starting material, while the PV industry has dragged its feet in this regard. Given the high probability of future price wars, the PV industry may need to consider competing with the semiconductor industry on its own terms--in other words, pay a higher price for higher grade silicon. Of course, the PVindustry can also better control its silicon future by using half asmuch silicon (thinner wafers, higher efficiency cells). The market direction A problem that is not easy to solve for cell and module manufacturers as well as providers of silicon material is how to strategically manage manufacturing capacity increases based on government programmes. These programmes, both performance and capacity based, still drivePV industry demand, especially for the grid connected market. The market for remote PV applications, traditionally the backbone of the PVindustry and still experiencing healthy growth (around 15 per cent per year), gets short shrift these days, even though it is generally independent of subsidies. PV manufacturers face uneasy choices in terms of rapidly increasing manufacturing capacity to serve periods of high demand, or slowing building capacity to avoid an idle factory in case of slower demand and feedstock shortages. Take a conservative road and you miss out on high demand and the ability to price at a profitable margin. Take an aggressive road and you may be stuck with excess capacity and product, and face the choice of selling it at negative prices. Cell and module manufacturers must bet on continued government support, high demand, and a consistent supply of silicon in order to make the leap of faith (not to mention the capital investment) required to ramp up capacity. 
==Oil Advantage== 
===1NC=== 
**The U.S. would quickly win a war with China**
Record, 01 (Jeffrey, professor of strategy and international security at the Air War College, Aerospace Power Journal, Winter, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj01/win01/record.html)
Primary Sino-American war starters seem to be Chinese aggression against Taiwan and in the South China Sea. Yet, a US defense of Taiwan and of freedom of navigation in the western Pacific would play greatly to America's traditional military strengths while at the same time exploit long-standing Chinese weaknesses. Historically, China's sole strategically impressive war-fighting suit has been the quantity of its ground forces, which counts for little in the pursuit of offshore imperial ambitions. Asserting and maintaining dominance over Taiwan and the South China Sea require mastery of air and naval power—arenas in which the United States is peerless and likely to remain so for decades (assuming no retreat to isolationism plus a determination to maintain both conventional military supremacy and a forward military presence in East Asia—neither to be taken for granted). Chinese naval and air forces are rudimentary by US standards, but perhaps an even greater deficiency is the absence of any modern combat experience. China has not fought a major war since Korea (where US airpower pummeled the PLA), whereas the United States has had a virtual cornucopia of such experience since the end of the Cold War. Practice may not make perfect, but it is surely better than sitting on the military bench for almost half a century. (China's brief and highly restricted invasion of Vietnam in 1979 pitted masses of poorly armed and trained Chinese troops against better-equipped North Vietnamese combat veterans.) Crucial to sound thinking about war with China is recognition that to shift America's primary strategic focus from Europe to Asia is to shift from a predominantly ground-air to a predominantly air-sea theater of operations. Why? Because of the asymmetrical distributions of wealth and power between the two regions. Most of Asia's wealth and power still lies in offshore and peninsular states, whereas in Europe it is concentrated ashore. Thus, maintaining a balance of power in Europe (i.e., preventing Europe's domination by a hostile power) mandated a willingness and capacity to wage ground warfare deeply inland. In contrast, maintaining an Asian balance of power requires performing the simpler task of keeping offshore and peninsular Asia outside a continental hegemon's grasp.9 Large land-warfare operations in the Asian interior are not just unnecessary; they are to be avoided at all costs because they would pit US weaknesses against a continental hegemon's strengths. Even Gen Douglas MacArthur, who in 1951 wanted to expand the Korean War into an air and sea assault on China, declared that "it would be a master folly to contemplate the use of United States ground troops in China," adding that "I can conceive of no strategic or tactical position where I would put in . . . units of American ground troops in continental China."10 In addition to naval and air inferiority, China would approach war with the United States with significant strategic disadvantages. Regionwide suspicion of China's imperial ambitions has deprived Beijing of significant allies and even friends in East Asia, whereas the United States is rich in both. India remains a strategic competitor, and Chinese behavior in the South China Sea has alienated most of Southeast Asia.

**Oil dependence at all-time low – fracking and domestic production**
CSM 9/28/2012 [CER News Desk “Oil production in US hits highest level in 15 years” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Energy-Voices/2012/0928/Oil-production-in-US-hits-highest-level-in-15-years]] AM]
Oil production in the United States rose last week to levels not seen since January 1997, helping the country to reduce dependence on foreign sources of crude as it continues to implement the drilling and fracking technologies needed to increase daily oil output. (See also: Are President Obama’s Policies Causing U.S. Oil Production to Rise?)¶ RELATED: Top 5 nations that use renewable energy¶ Reports from the Energy Department released this week show that overall crude output in the U.S. rose 3.7 percent to 6.5 million barrels per day by the week of September 21, a trend that has continued since the country met 83 percent of its annual energy needs from the beginning of the year through June. Should domestic oil production continue at its current rate, the United States will enjoy 2012 as its most self-sufficient year since 1991. ¶ The increased production is a direct result of the new technologies being implemented by oil companies in an effort to extract crude in locations other than wells, including horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing (fracking); the same technology has taken American natural gas stock levels to new heights. (See also: How Much Oil Does the World Produce?)¶ “This has been driven by shale, and the two states leading the way are North Dakota and Texas,” said Andy Lipow, president of Texas energy consulting firm Lipow Oil Associates LLC. “It appears that over the next five years, U.S. oil production could climb to well over 8 million barrels a day.”¶ The rise in crude production in the U.S. has analysts predicting that oil prices will decline over the next six to nine months; already a growing natural gas stockpile pushed futures down to $1.907 per million BTU earlier in the year, its lowest point in the past 12 years. Increasing fuel production has many setting their sights on what is being dubbed the “reindustrialization” of the United States, an economic state that could see more than 3.5 million jobs created in the country by 2020 if domestic energy production continues at a high rate. (See also:The Effect of New Production Methods on U.S Oil Output)

**They don’t solve Sino-US war, their Nur evidence says that even after we have alternative energy we will still need oil**
Nur ’11 - Professor of Earth Sciences and Professor of Geophysics at Stanford University (Amos, 3/28/11, Lecture at Technion, http://www1.technion.ac.il/_local/includes/blocks/news-items/110331-nur/news-item-en.htm)
Prof. Nur also related to the subject of alternative energy by saying that even if we exploit alternative energy sources such as solar, wind, bio-mass and even nuclear energy on a scale equal to our use of oil, gas and coal today, in 50 years we will still need the same amount of oil and gas we need today because demand will by 2.5 times larger than today.

**Imports from Gulf Coast increasing – means no foreign dependence**
Martaugh 9/7/2012 [Dan Martaugh, Bloomberg, “US shale boom cuts Gulf oil cost, foreign dependence” [[http://www.telegram.com/article/20120907/NEWS/109079588/1002/business#.UGklfU1ZUs8|http://www.telegram.com/article/20120907/NEWS/109079588/1002/business#.UGklfU1ZUs8]] AM]
U.S. oil output surged to the highest level in 13 years in July, according to weekly Energy Department data. The U.S. met 83 percent of its energy demand from domestic sources in the first five months of this year and is heading for the highest annual level since 1991, department figures compiled by Bloomberg show. ¶ “Unconventional oils and gas are changing everything about our competitiveness in the United States,” Bill Klesse, Valero Energy Corp.’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the Barclays CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York. “Before you know it, we’re going to have so much light, sweet crude that in the U.S. Gulf Coast we’re not going to be importing light, sweet crude, and we think that happens next year.” ¶ Houston, New Orleans and other ports along the Gulf Coast accepted about 554,000 barrels a day of light, sweet oil from outside the U.S. in June, down from 964,000 barrels a day in June 2011 and about 1.25 million in June 2010, according to the Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.

**A gas tax will incentivize ethanol**
Abelkop, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law, 2010, in ‘9
[Adam, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393]
Although consumers may welcome the current decline in oil and gasoline prices, uncertainty in the petroleum market discourages energy investments in the transportation sector, the electrical grid, and even in the renewable energy industry. n3 Investors rely upon long-term predictability to make decisions, but this confidence is undermined by price volatility. Underinvestment in these sectors is a significant barrier to a comprehensive solution to global climate change and the United States' over-reliance on petroleum. n4 Efficiency improvements realized by an improved electrical grid and the development of renewable energy technologies serve the dual purposes of diminishing the undesirable consequences of climate change and the United States' dependence on oil. n5 Nobel Prize winner and former vice president Al Gore fervently insists that "the United States should undertake a massive strategic effort to solve the climate crisis and the fossil fuel dependency crisis simultaneously" because they are "inextricably linked." n6 The causes and effects of climate change and dependence on oil are so diverse that no single course of action can possibly offer a sufficient solution. n7 Indeed, "we will need to attack the [*395] problem from both ends: by reducing demand and by increasing supply (from renewables) simultaneously." n8¶ Recognizing the need for government involvement in the energy market, clean energy advocates support a diversity of policies, including, for example, feed-in tariffs, net metering, renewable portfolio standards, a cap-and-trade scheme for carbon emissions, and subsidies for clean energy technologies. n9 In particular, many scholars, policymakers, and industry insiders have suggested harnessing the power of taxes to influence how businesses and individuals make their energy investment and consumption decisions. n10 For instance, Rex Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil, advocates a direct tax on carbon emissions. n11 Others, including President Obama, have suggested reintroducing a windfall profits tax on oil companies' excessive revenues. n12 Alternatively, an expanding group of scholars proposes the enactment of a variable tax, including a federally-mandated "price floor," on oil or gasoline. n13 This Note explores this last option as one component of America's strategy to address climate change and oil dependence.¶ Specifically, this Note presents the normative arguments detailing why and how the federal government should administer a variable tax and price floor on gasoline derived from petroleum. Part II.A provides background information on the petroleum and renewable energy markets as well as the twin problems of climate change and the sustainability of the United States' current energy infrastructure. Part II.B expounds the underlying causes of the volatility in the prices of oil and gasoline and demonstrates that a stable, high gasoline price can facilitate a smooth transition to sources of energy that are cleaner and more efficient than traditional fossil fuels. Part III illustrates the necessity of government intervention in the energy sector by means of increased taxes designed to internalize the externalities of petroleum and gasoline. Finally, Part IV explains how the federal government should restructure the tax on gasoline to be a variable tax with a price floor and how such a tax would function as part of the solution to the looming climate [*396] and energy crises.¶ II. Background¶ A. The "Twin Crises"¶ 1. Climate Change¶ ¶ Climate change is human-induced, caused by emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), primarily carbon dioxide (CO(2)). n14 Although the burning of coal is the largest fossil fuel source of GHG emissions, n15 oil burned primarily through the transportation sector also contributes materially to climate change. The Energy Information Administration indicates that among end-use sectors, the transport sector is responsible for roughly one-third of all carbon dioxide emissions and "has led all U.S. end-use sectors in emissions of carbon dioxide since 1999." n16 Energy experts, therefore, reason that "the increasing levels of emissions from transport suggest that stronger mitigation efforts may be necessary for this sector." n17¶ Because of its potentially dire consequences, climate change must be taken seriously. n18 Projections as to the extent of warming and its consequences vary in degree and reliability. n19 A consensus of scientific authorities, however, indicates that positive [*397] feedbacks n20 and climatic oscillation as a result of atmospheric warming may be sudden and severe, n21 triggering a number of undesirable events such as acute biodiversity loss, n22 sea-level rise, n23 enhanced droughts and floods, n24 disruption of the Atlantic Current, n25 the spread of insect-borne and other diseases, n26 and international conflicts over adversely affected agricultural, land, and water resources. n27 Taken together, these factors could ultimately culminate in the extinction of an alarming number of species and stress the global economy to its breaking point. n28 Many of these projections may seem unduly alarmist; however, uncertainty as to the extent of the consequences of global climate change is a reason to err on the side of caution. n29¶ [*398] ¶ 2. Oil Dependence¶ ¶ The United States burns more oil than any other nation and imports roughly 60% of the oil it consumes. n30 The Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that domestic consumption of petroleum will average 19.7 million barrels per day (bbl/d) in 2009. n31 Given America's mammoth level of consumption - popularly referenced as its "addiction to oil" n32 - and dependence on foreign sources of petroleum, the United States is particularly vulnerable to an oil supply shock. n33 An oil supply shock occurs when a perceived or actual decline in the supply of crude causes a rapid increase in the market price and subsequent harm to the economy as a whole. n34 Such a shock could come unexpectedly and arise under a variety of circumstances. n35¶ There is a high risk that violent conflict or political instability will disrupt oil supplies in the near future. n36 An attack on a pipeline or refinery in Nigeria, Iraq, or Saudi Arabia or a possible conflict between the United States and Iran could severely disrupt the flow of oil to the marketplace. n37 Even though Canada and Mexico are among the [*399] United States' primary sources of oil, n38 the United States would not be shielded from the effects of a supply disruption of this nature because the "price of oil is determined in the world market and depends mainly on the balance between world demand and supply." n39 This is reason for concern given that 85% of the world's proven reserves are in nations to which the Government Accountability Office assigns medium-to-high investment risk. n40¶ Of course, the severity of supply shocks will vary in degree. An attack on a pipeline, for example, would not be as significant as an obstruction to shipping traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, which would threaten the flow of 55% of the world's oil reserves. n41 Oil is a fungible commodity, and the ability of the international economy to absorb limited supply shocks has increased since the 1973 oil embargo. n42 The gravity of a supply shock is dependent on how suddenly it occurs, whether it will obstruct the flow of oil in the long-term, and the overall state of the economy:¶ ¶ It is not clear how the economy would react to a sudden as opposed to a gradual increase in the price of oil or how it would overcome a long-term reduction in the oil supply. A jump in the cost of oil would strike at the margin of an economy that is facing substantially elevated oil cost already. n43¶ ¶ Extreme weather events, for example, are isolated; but even small losses of supply have regional consequences. The series of hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico in the fall of 2008 significantly upset the southeastern oil distribution system, causing gasoline shortages throughout that region. n44 This relatively small shock, however, did not greatly affect the price of oil or alter long-term investment decisions in the energy market in the way that the onset of a fresh conflict in the Middle East could. n45¶ Structural problems throughout the petroleum sector also have the potential to instigate an economic crisis. n46 Eighty percent of the world's oil infrastructure is "corroded - literally rusting through ... ." n47 Some economists forecast that inadequate investment in production and refining infrastructure will cause a severe oil supply crunch within the next decade. n48 In other words, as demand for oil steadily increases, [*400] deteriorating infrastructure may impede the ability of oil producers to refine "below-ground oil resources ... into producing capacity." n49¶ A more notable limit on oil production capacity is that oil is a finite resource; one day in the not-too-distant future, oil production will reach its peak and then steadily decrease over time. n50 Many scholars have attempted to predict when world oil production will peak, and forecasts vary wildly. n51 A loose consensus of analysts, though, projects that worldwide conventional crude oil production n52 could peak before 2012. n53 The accepted rate of global oil depletion is 2.5% annually. n54 The production capacity of nearly all of the largest oil fields is already in decline, n55 and of the top twenty oil producing nations, which together account for 85% of all oil production, ten are already in decline. n56 The discovery of new oil fields is "just barely able to compensate for the decline [in production] from larger fields; [new discoveries] will not allow us to increase overall production any further." n57 After world oil production reaches its peak, it will decline at an exponential rate. n58 The effect will be a supply shock more severe than any [*401] the world has previously experienced. n59 The shock will significantly impair oil-reliant industries such as the transportation and agriculture sectors, n60 cause conflicts over energy resources, n61 and wreck the already-strained global economy. n62¶ 3. Kicking the Addiction¶ ¶ Transportation accounts for 28% of all energy consumed in the United States, n63 and "96[%] of the energy used for transportation comes from petroleum. So mitigating the effects of peak oil must begin with reducing transportation demand for fuel." n64 The following sub-Parts provide a brief review of the technologies that could replace or be incorporated into the United States' existing energy and transportation infrastructure in order to reduce both its addiction to oil and its contribution to global climate change.¶ a. Fuel Efficiency and Driving Patterns¶ ¶ Improvements in fuel efficiency are an important bridge to more sustainable fuel consumption patterns because efficiency gains will allow drivers to consume less fuel without changing their driving behavior. n65 Limiting aggressive driving behavior, driving at slower speeds, limiting the use of air conditioning, proper tire inflation, and eliminating short trips are changes that any driver can make that will increase his or her fuel efficiency. n66 Other activities that can limit fuel consumption are carpooling and tele-commuting. n67 Incentivizing eco-friendly changes in fuel consumption patterns also presents business opportunities. n68 Zipcar, for instance, is a highly successful company based on the concept of car-sharing, in which consumers pay hourly or daily rates to use a limited number of shared vehicles. n69 Currently, Zipcar's 275,000 members in the [*402] United States, Canada, and London share 5500 vehicles. n70¶ Of course, technological improvements in the vehicles themselves can also increase fuel economy. The technology to do so is readily available: the average fuel economy of European privately owned vehicles is 42 miles per gallon, while the average fuel economy of a privately owned vehicle in America is 24 miles per gallon. n71 President Obama announced in May 2009 that 2016 Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards will rise to 39 miles per gallon for cars and 30 miles per gallon for light trucks; n72 however, it is possible for automobile manufacturers to produce cars that can travel 50-60 miles per gallon. n73 Higher CAFE standards are helpful, but not sufficient to achieve the reductions in oil consumption that are necessary to shield Americans from the next oil shock. n74¶ b. Biofuels¶ ¶ Gains in fuel economy can only go so far; alternative fuels and improvements in technology are necessary elements of a successful transition away from reliance on petroleum. n75 Biofuels, then, are an important alternative source of fuel for the transportation sector. n76 The primary biofuels available in the United States are biodiesel and corn ethanol. n77 Biodiesel is especially promising because it requires no new infrastructure for transport or storage, and it can be burned in any existing diesel engine. n78 Soybean oil is currently the primary feedstock from which biodiesel is derived, but start-up companies are producing biodiesel from fast-food waste grease and algae. n79 The vast majority of vehicles sold in the U.S., however, feature internal combustion engines that burn gasoline, not diesel fuel. n80 Thus, corn ethanol - mixed with gasoline as a fuel additive - is the most widely utilized biofuel in the United States. n81 Corn, however, [*403] is not a sustainable source of fuel. n82 Some analysts suggest that sugarcane ethanol is a more sustainable source of biofuel. n83 Researchers are also developing methods to derive ethanol from cellulose, the basic component of any woody plant fiber. n84 The ability of ethanol to displace oil consumption in the short-term, however, is limited because most motor vehicles sold in the United States are not equipped to operate on pure ethanol; rather, ethanol is blended with gasoline in varying quantities and used as a fuel additive. n85 Therefore, a transition to the sustainable use of ethanol would require technological improvements in the engine design of motor vehicles sold in the United States. n86

**And, that will increase the use of nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizers that will run off into the Gulf of Mexico creating a ‘dead zone’**
Runge & Senauer ‘8 /Distinguished McKnight University Professor of Applied Economics and Law at the University of Minnesota & Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Minnesota/
[C. Ford & Benjamin, “How Ethanol Fuels the Food Crisis”, Foreign Affairs, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080528faupdate87376/c-ford-runge-benjamin-senauer/how-ethanol-fuels-the-food-crisis.html?mode=print]], May 28]
In early 2008, two articles in Science showed that forests or grasslands converted for the production of biofuels will immediately incur a "carbon debt," due to the release of carbon dioxide from biomass and soil. This long "payback" for biofuels is disappointing in light of the urgency of global warming. The second Science study demonstrated that biofuel production often displaces crops, moving them to new areas where further land-use conversions are required. In the Corn Belt of the Midwest, biofuels helped to convert nearly 20 million acres from soybean production to corn production in 2007, pushing soybean prices higher while encouraging extensive applications of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers that run off into lakes and streams, enter the Mississippi River, and eventually reach the Gulf of Mexico where they have created an oxygen-starved "dead zone." The authors found that such land-use changes nearly double greenhouse emissions over 30 years, and increase greenhouse gases for 167 years.

**And, that ecological damage triggers extinciton**
Blaire in ‘5 /Pulitzer Prize Winner, President of the environment health advocacy group, Valley Watch/
[John, Sep 5th, “Should New Orleans be Rebuilt?”, Counter Punch Newsletter, [[http://www.counterpunch.org/blair09052005.html]]]
In the past quarter century, efforts driven by environmentalists and sympathetic politicians resulted in the Grand Rivers becoming much cleaner but they remain seriously degraded in many ways. Chemical pollution from point and areas sources continue and industry still uses them to dump waste while chemical run-off from farming causes nitrogen loading which, in turn, causes depletion of oxygen which continues through the river's ecosystem. Policies of the past, both distant and recent, have resulted in ecological destruction of both the Grand Rivers and their tributaries. But maybe even more important, recent years have seen the morbid development of the "Dead Zone," extending hundreds of miles into the Gulf of Mexico from its source, the delta area of the Mississippi River, just south of New Orleans. As its name implies, the Dead Zone is dead. It no longer supports anything but the most hardy of life forms and it is growing. Oxygen depletion forces sea creatures to leave the area or die. The Dead Zone may be one of the largest ecological problems we American face. That is due to the enormous area that is drained by the entire Mississippi watershed and all the chemicals that find their way into the Gulf. But the problem is not merely with the Dead Zone. Much of the problem lies squarely with the US Army Corps of Engineers which has done everything Congress would fund to develop the Rivers for commerce, dismissing the needs of the natural world all along its path. Wetlands have been destroyed, rivers have been raised, channels have been altered and dams have been built. Together, these represent a complete assault on the natural systems that might have helped mitigate the disaster we experienced as a nation on the Gulf Coast. That is why I come now to say, "do not rebuild New Orleans!" At least not where it sits today. We should look at the disaster caused by Katrina as an opportunity, an opportunity to start correcting the arrogant policies of the past that made New Orleans so vulnerable in the first place. An effort by America to restore the Grand Rivers to their more natural state could help mitigate future natural disasters which many scientists believe will only increase the longer we ignore the dramatic problem of global climate change. Obviously, such a restoration will not take place in any short term since we currently rely on the unnatural infrastructure to move our goods out of middle America as well as to provide us easier access to goods coming from all over the world. In my view, the Grand Rivers are like an arteries and veins in the organ, Earth. They provide us sustenance and take away our waste, but, just like veins in our own bodies, if they receive too much poison, they will collapse, resulting in death, possibly to the entire body. We should not allow the opportunity that we have today to change the way we coexist with the natural world. Rebuilding a city under sea level is not only unnatural, it is also unwise. In the 18th Century, when New Orleans was settled, no one knew of the dangers they were making for man and nature. We cannot blame their ignorance for the problems we see today there or in any of the places that get ravaged each year by development that is not sustainable. However, only fools continue to make the same mistakes, over and over again. Now is the time to change that paradigm and start living in a manner that is sustainable, healthy and wise. Whether we meet the challenge and opportunity we have today depends on whether we are capable of looking forward or are forced to look backwards in a myopic reverence of the past.

**Next is monocultures**
**First, Biofuels will lead to widespread monocultures**
The Brockville Recorder and Times in ‘7
[“Ethanol plant subsidy could have been better spent”, November 7, Nexis]
But the greater concern is that grain-based ethanol subsidies are promoting an agricultural monoculture, one which depletes the natural richness of soils which is otherwise maintained through crop rotations and biodiversity. This monoculture requires ever-increasing amounts of fossil fuel-based fertilizers to maintain production.

**And, The impact is extinction**
Fowler & Mooney, Of Rural Advancement Fund International, 90 (Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity, p. ix)
While many may ponder the consequences of global warming, perhaps the biggest single environmental catastrophe in human history is unfolding in the garden. While all are rightly concerned about the possibility of nuclear war, an equally devastating time bomb is ticking away in the fields of farmers all over the world. Loss of genetic diversity in agriculture—silent, rapid, inexorable—is leading us to a rendezvous with extinction—to the doorstep of hunger on a scale we refuse to imagine. To simplify the environment as we have done with agriculture is to destroy the complex interrelationships that hold the natural world together. Reducing the diversity of life, we narrow our options for the future and render our own survival more precarious. It is life at the end of the limb. That is the subject of this book. Agronomists in the Philippines warned of what became known as southern corn leaf blight in 1061.' The disease was reported in Mexico not long after. In the summer of 1968, the first faint hint that the blight was in the United States came from seed growers in the Midwest. The danger was ignored. By the spring of 1970 the disease had taken hold in the Florida corn crop. But it was not until corn prices leapt thirty cents a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade that the world took notice; by then it was August—and too late. By the close of the year, Americans had lost fifteen percent of their most important crop—more than a billion bushels. Some southern states lost half their harvest and many of their farmers. While consumers suffered in the grocery stores, producers were out a billion dollars in lost yield. And the disaster was not solely domestic. U.S. seed exports may have spread the blight to Africa, Latin America and Asia.

**And, Food prices - Studies definitively link Biofuels production to a 30% increased global food prices in just the last few years.** 
Rosegrant in ‘8 /Director, Environment and Production Technology Division, International Food Policy Research Institute/
[Mark W., Congressional Testimony, “Biofuels and Grain Prices: Impacts and Policy Responses”, U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, May 5]
Recent dramatic increases in food prices are having severe consequences for poor countries and poor people. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) reports that food prices rose by nearly 40 percent in 2007 and made further large jumps in early 2008. Nearly all agricultural commodities—including rice, maize, wheat, meat, dairy products, soybeans, palm oil, and cassava—are affected. In response to the price hikes, food riots have occurred in many developing countries, including Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Haiti, Indonesia, Senegal, and Somalia. According to the FAO, 37 countries are now facing food crises.¶ Triggers and Underlying Factors¶ High food-price triggers have included biofuel policies, which have led to large volumes of food crops being shifted into bioethanol and biodiesel production; bad weather in key production areas, such as droughts in wheat-producing Australia and Ukraine; and higher oil prices, which have contributed to increased costs of production inputs and transportation. Prices then spiraled further as a result of poor government policies such as export bans and import subsidies, combined with speculative trading and storage behavior in reaction to these policies.¶ However, the preconditions for rapidly rising food prices stem from underlying long-term trends in food supply and demand that have contributed to a tightening of global food markets during the past decade. Rapid growth in demand for meat and milk in most of the developing world put strong demand pressure on maize and other coarse grains as feed, and small maize price increases had been projected for some time as a result. Other underlying factors include stronger economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa since the late 1990s, which has increased the demand for wheat and rice in the region; and rapid income growth and urbanization in developing Asia, which has led to increased demand for wheat, meat, milk, oils, and vegetables. On the supply side, long-term underlying factors include underinvestment in agricultural research and technology and rural infrastructure, especially irrigation, as well as increasing pressure on the natural-resource base (land and water).¶ The Role of Biofuels in Food Price Increases¶ The role of biofuel policies in the food-price hikes has become particularly controversial. The rapid increase in demand for and production of biofuels, particularly bioethanol from maize and sugarcane, has had a number of effects on grain supply-and-demand systems. Expanded production of ethanol from maize, in particular, has increased total demand for maize and shifted land area away from production of maize for food and feed, stimulating increased prices for maize. Rising maize prices, in turn, have affected other grains. On the demand side, higher prices for maize have caused food consumers to shift from maize (which is still a significant staple food crop in much of the developing world) to rice and wheat. On the supply side, higher maize prices made maize more profitable to grow, causing some farmers to shift from rice and wheat (and other crop) cultivation to maize cultivation. These demand- and supply-side effects have tended to increase the price of rice and wheat and other crops.¶ To examine the impact of alternatives to current biofuel demands, the following analyses were implemented:¶ 1)11¶ Recent food price evolution with and without high biofuel demand¶ 2)¶ Impact of a freeze on biofuel production from all crops at 2007 levels¶ 3)¶ Impact of a moratorium (elimination) on biofuel production after 2007.¶ These issues are examined using the International Food Policy Research Institute’s (IFPRI) IMPACT model (International Model for Policy Analysis of Agricultural Commodities and Trade), a partial-equilibrium modeling framework that captures the interactions among agricultural commodity supply, demand, and trade for 115 countries and the world. IMPACT includes demand for food, feed, biofuel feedstock, and other uses.¶ 1)¶ Recent food price evolution with and without high biofuel demand A comparison between a simulation of actual demand for food crops as biofuel feedstock through 2007 and a scenario simulating biofuel growth at the rate of 1990-2000 before the rapid takeoff in demand for bioethanol approximates the contribution of biofuel demand to increases in grain prices from 2000 to 2007. The percentage contribution of biofuel demand to price increases during that period is the difference between 2007 prices in the two scenarios, divided by the increase in prices in the baseline from 2000 to 2007. The increased biofuel demand during the period, compared with previous historical rates of growth, is estimated to have accounted for 30 percent of the increase in weighted average grain prices. Unsurprisingly, the biggest impact was on maize prices, for which increased biofuel demand is estimated to account for 39 percent of the increase in real prices. Increased biofuel demand is estimated to account for 21 percent of the increase in rice prices and 22 percent of the rise in wheat prices.

**And, that kills billions**
Liberman, Senior Policy Analyst in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at Heritage, 4-2-8 (Ben, “Time for Second Thoughts on the Ethanol Mandate,” Heritage Foundation WebMemo, Number 1879, http://www.heritage.org/Research/energyandenvironment/wm1879.cfm)
Not surprisingly, diverting corn from food to fuel use has raised food prices. At a little over $2 per bushel when the 2005 law was signed, the price of corn has surged above $5, primarily because a quarter of the crop is now used to produce energy. A host of corn-related foods, such as corn-fed meat and dairy, have seen sharp price increases. Wheat and soybeans are also up, partly as a result of fewer acres being planted in favor of corn. There's talk of inflation rising to levels not seen in decades as renewable mandates have conspired with other factors to drive up food prices. For corn farmers, the mandate has exceeded their wildest dreams, but for consumers, it has been an expensive double-whammy—higher costs to drive to the supermarket and higher prices once you're there. A recent study from Purdue University puts the added food cost from the renewable mandate at $15 billion in 2007—about $130 per household.[2] And that was from ethanol usage at a fraction of what will be required in the years ahead. Globally, with nearly a billion people at risk for hunger and malnutrition, the costs are far higher. Several anti-hunger organizations have weighed in heavily against current policies. An August 2007 United Nations report warns of "serious risks of creating a battle between food and fuel that will leave the poor and hungry in developing countries at the mercy of rapidly rising prices for food, land, and water."[3] There is evidence that this may already be happening, including food-related rioting in Mexico, Indonesia, Egypt, and the Philippines. 

===2NC=== 
**Any increase in food prices will reverberate world wide, exacerbating every existing food and water crisis. Water wars will occur in China, India, The Middle East, and Africa if we increase the use of Biofuels.** 
Pearce in ‘8 /freelance author and journalist based in the UK. He is environment consultant for New Scientist magazine and author of recent books When The Rivers Run Dry and With Speed and Violence/
[Fred, “Water Scarcity: The Real Food Crisis”, Jun 03]
Some press reports have recently suggested that China is being sucked dry to provide water for the Beijing Olympics. Would that it were so simple. The Olympics will require only trivial amounts of water. China’s water shortages are deep-seated, escalating, and tied to agriculture. Even hugely expensive plans to bring water from the wetter south to the arid north will only provide marginal relief.¶ The same is true of India, the world’s second most populous country. Forty years ago, India was a basket case. Millions died in famines. The green revolution then turned India into a food exporter. Its neighbor Bangladesh came to rely on India for rice. B ut Indian food production has stagnated recently, even as demand from richer residents has soared. And the main reason ¶ With river water fully used, Indian farmers have been trying to increase supplies by tapping underground reserves. In the last 15 years, they have bought a staggering 20 million Yamaha pumps to suck water from beneath their fields. Tushaar Shah, director of the International Water Management Institute’s groundwater research station in Gujarat, estimates those farmers are pumping annually to the surface 100 cubic kilometers more water than the monsoon rains replace. Water tables are plunging, and in many places water supplies are giving out.¶ “We are living hand-to-mouth,” says D.P. Singh, president of the All India Grain Exporters Association, who blames water shortages for faltering grain production. Last year India began to import rice, notably from Australia. This year, it stopped supplying its densely populated neighbor Bangladesh, triggering a crisis there too.¶ More and more countries are up against the limits of food production because they are up against the limits of water supply. Most of the Middle East reached this point years ago. In Egypt, where bread riots occurred this spring, the Nile River no longer reaches the sea because all its water is taken for irrigation.A map of world food trade increasingly looks like a map of the water haves and have-nots, because in recent years the global food trade has become almost a proxy trade in water — or rather, the water needed to grow food. “Virtual water,” some economists call it. The trade has kept the hungry in dry lands fed. But now that system is breaking down, because there are too many buyers and not enough sellers.¶ According to estimates by UNESCO’s hydrology institute, the world’s largest net supplier of virtual water until recently was Australia. It exported a staggering 70 cubic kilometers of water a year in the form of crops, mainly food. With the Murray-Darling Basin, Australia’s main farming zone, virtually dry for the past two years, that figure has been cut in half.¶ The largest gross exporter of virtual water is the United States, but its exports have also slumped as corn is diverted to domestic biofuels, and because of continuing drought in the American West.¶ The current water shortages should not mark an absolute limit to food production around the world. But it should do three things. It should encourage a rethinking of biofuels, which are themselves major water guzzlers. It should prompt an expanding trade in food exported from countries that remain in water surplus, such as Brazil. And it should trigger much greater efforts everywhere to use water more efficiently.¶ On a trip to Australia in the midst of the 2006 drought, I was staggered to see that farmers even in the most arid areas still irrigate their fields mostly by flooding them. Until the water runs out, that is. Few have adopted much more efficient drip irrigation systems, where water is delivered down pipes and discharged close to roots. And, while many farmers are expert at collecting any rain that falls on their land, they sometimes allow half of that water to evaporate from the surfaces of their farm reservoirs.¶ For too long, we have seen water as a cheap and unlimited resource. Those days are coming to an end — not just in dry places, but everywhere. For if the current world food crisis shows anything, it is that in an era of global trade in “virtual water,” local water shortages can reverberate throughout the world — creating higher food prices and food shortages everywhere.

**And, water shortages trigger global nuclear war**
Weiner in ’90 /Professor, Princeton University/
[Jonathan, THE NEXT 100 YEARS, 1990, p. 270]
If we do not destroy ourselves with the A-bomb and the H-bomb, then we may destroy ourselves with the C-bomb, the Change Bomb. And in a world as interlinked as ours, one explosion may lead to the other. Already in the Middle East, from North Africa to the Persian Gulf and from the Nile to the Euphrates, tensions over dwindling water supplies and rising populations are reaching what many experts describe as a flashpoint. A climate shift in that single battle-scarred nexus might trigger international tensions that will unleash some of the 60,000 nuclear warheads the world has stockpiled since Trinity.

**Kills Billions**
Tampa Tribune in 96, staff, January 20, 1996, LN.
On a global scale, food supplies - measured by stockpiles of grain - are not abundant. In 1995, world production failed to meet demand for the third consecutive year, said Per Pinstrup-Andersen, director of the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington, D.C. As a result, grain stockpiles fell from an average of 17 percent of annual consumption in 1994-1995 to 13 percent at the end of the 1995-1996 season, he said. That's troubling, Pinstrup-Andersen noted, since 13 percent is well below the 17 percent the United Nations considers essential to provide a margin of safety in world food security. During the food crisis of the early 1970s, world grain stocks were at 15 percent. "Even if they are merely blips, higher international prices can hurt poor countries that import a significant portion of their food," he said. "Rising prices can also quickly put food out of reach of the 1.1 billion people in the developing world who live on a dollar a day or less." He also said many people in low-income countries already spend more than half of their income on food.

**Commodity Prices falling now-global growth worries**
Shore 9/24/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12 [Sandy Shore is a commodities reporter for the Associated Press. “Commodity prices fall on global growth worries” http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-09-24/commodity-prices-fall-on-global-growth-worries]</span>
In other trading, orange juice futures fell 5.2 percent on expectations that storms in the Atlantic will miss key growing regions in Florida, said Jack Scoville, vice president Price Futures Group. Demand for orange juice produced in the U.S. remains lower than year-ago levels. Orange juice for November delivery fell 6.55 cents to finish at $1.183 per pound. Wheat for December delivery fell 5.25 cents to end at $8.92 per bushel, December corn dropped 3.5 cents to $7.4475 per bushel and November soybeans decreased 11.75 cents to $16.10 per bushel.

**Corn, Soy, Wheat, Beef prices falling now**
IBT 9/21<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">/12[International Business Times, offers news, analysis and editorial commentary on business and business-related stories. It is ranked by Alexa as the sixth-most visited site among business newspapers. “Corn, Soy, Wheat, Hogs, Beef Prices” http://www.ibtimes.com/corn-soy-wheat-hogs-beef-prices-794082]</span>
US Agriculture Comments; Grains close lower Thursday
The Soybean market collapsed Thursday, easily erasing Wednesday’s gains. Corn and Wheat were also lower, though Wheat held relatively firm compared to the other grains. The USD index posted a solid rally before falling back a bit late in the day. Outside commodities were mixed. Wheat futures saw a choppy day of trade but in the end gave way to spillover from sharp losses in Soybeans. Periods of price strength came from concerns about tightening global supplies, as weather conditions are less than ideal in Australia and the US Plains and there are reports of disappointing yields in areas of Europe and tightening supplies in the Black Sea region. Corn futures faced pressure the majority of the trading session, but the market did move well off its lows into the close. December through July futures settled 7 to 10.5 cents lower, while far deferred months ended in a narrowly mixed range. Traders took advantage of yesterday’s gains and today’s sharply higher USD index by booking profits. Also encouraging this were pitiful weekly export sales of 69,900 metric tons (MT), which reminded traders that demand destruction has occurred. Soybean futures sharply extended losses around midday and posted a low-range finish to end 30- to 50 + cents lower, with nearbys leading losses. Soymeal and Soyoil saw spillover pressure. Disappointing Chinese and Eurozone manufacturing data, as well as a disappointing initial jobless claims report from the US weighed on outside markets, which propelled selling in the commodity world today. Lean Hog futures ended mixed, closing 52.5 cents lower to 52.5cents higher. Upside potential in the hog pit was limited by negative outside markets and concerns tightening packer profit margins will reduce demand for cash Hogs. But the cash hog market was steady to $2 higher Thursday, with packers in need of supplies to fill this week’s large kill requirements. Live Cattle futures faced pressure throughout the day and selling mounted into the close. Futures ended with losses of 30 to 95 cents. Recent pressure on futures encouraged a few feedlots in Texas and Kansas to move Cattle at $126, which is steady to lower compared to trade last week in these states.


**Increased biofuel production causes food prices to skyrocket**
Miller, M.D. Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution, 8 (Henry, “THE ENVIRONMENT: Running on Empty,” Hoover Digest, Number 1, http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/13871832.html)
Exhortations to be ‚more green” are everywhere. But when green policies and decisions are based on nothing more than a passionate but uninformed desire to save the planet, they often run afoul of the law of unintended consequences. For a prime example, consider the momentum in many parts of the world to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and dependence on imported oil by using more biofuels. Good goals, bad policy. The European Union seeks to replace 10 percent of its oil consumption with biofuels by 2020. Even China has gotten into the game, aiming for 15 percent. President Bush announced in January 2007 a goal of replacing 15 percent of domestic gasoline use with biofuels (ethanol and biodiesel) over the next 10 years, which would require almost a fivefold increase in mandatory biofuel use, to about 35 billion gallons. In June 2007, the Senate pushed the target to 36 billion gallons by 2022, of which 15 billion gallons is mandated to come from corn and 21 billion from other sources that are more advanced but largely unproven. With current technology, almost all of this biofuel would have to come from corn because there is no other feasible, proven alternative. However, it is unlikely that American farmers will be able to meet such demands. Because of the inefficiencies inherent in producing ethanol from corn and the relatively meager amount of energy yielded by burning ethanol, the demands on farmland would be staggering. An analysis by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development suggested that replacing even 10 percent of America’s motor fuel with biofuels would require that about a third of all the nation’s cropland be devoted to oilseeds, cereals, and sugar crops. Achieving the 15 percent goal would require the entire current U.S. corn crop, a whopping 40 percent of the world’s corn supply. This would do more than create mere market distortions. Even without the increasing pressure on corn production abroad, the irresistible pressure to divert corn from food to fuel in the United States would create unprecedented turmoil. Another unintended consequence of the intoxication with ethanol production is the pressure on water supplies. According to a report from an environmental advocacy group, three to six gallons of water are needed to produce each gallon of ethanol. Just to process the corn and produce the fuel, the group estimates, 2.6 billion gallons a year could be required from a single large aquifer that extends from Texas to South Dakota, and an additional 120 billion gallons a year would be needed for irrigation to grow more corn. In the short and medium term, ethanol can do little to reduce the vast amount of oil that is imported, and the ethanol policy will have profound ripple effects on other commodity markets. Corn farmers and ethanol refiners are ecstatic about the ethanol boom, of course, and are enjoying the windfall of artificially enhanced demand. But it is already proving to be an expensive and dangerous experiment for the rest of us. With other countries joining the United States in ramping up biofuel production, mainly of ethanol, world food prices are skyrocketing. A 2005 law mandates production of 7.5 billion gallons by 2012, about 5 percent of the projected gasoline use at that time. These biofuel goals are propped up by a generous federal subsidy—via tax credits—of 51 cents a gallon for blending ethanol into gasoline, and a tariff of 54 cents a gallon on most imported ethanol, to keep out cheap imports from Brazil. Such subsidies ignore science and economics in favor of politics, and show disdain for free markets. CORN PRICES ARE POPPING Thus, it is no surprise that the price of corn has doubled in the past year—from $2 per bushel to $4. We are already seeing upward pressure on food prices: nationally, food prices were up 3.9 percent in April 2007, compared to a year earlier. An Iowa State University study estimates that food prices have already increased by $47 annually per capita, or $14 billion overall. Until the recent ethanol boom, more than 60 percent of the U.S. corn harvest was fed domestically to cattle, hogs, and chickens, or used in food or beverages. Thousands of food items contain corn or corn byproducts. A spokesman for one of California’s largest cattle ranches and feedlots noted that since the end of 2005, the company has experienced a 36 percent increase in the cost of feed, which translates to an additional expense of $101 per animal raised. Reflecting these trends, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association has demanded an end to both government subsidies for ethanol and the import tariff on foreign ethanol. The poultry industry is also squawking. The National Chicken Council demands remedies from senators who represent the big Southern poultry states, and the National Turkey Federation estimates that its feed costs have gone up nearly $600 million a year. These effects may only hint at things to come. Any shock to corn yields, such as drought, unseasonably hot weather, pests, or disease, could send food prices during the next few years into the stratosphere. Even Gregory Page, the CEO of agribusiness giant Cargill, a major beneficiary of the ethanol boom, shares these fears: “We just have to be sure that the more is- better mind-set [regarding ethanol] doesn’t get way out ahead of the capacity of the land to provide the fuel. . . . What we would like to see is some thoughtfulness about what we will do if we have a weather calamity.” Such concerns are more than theoretical: in 1970, a widespread outbreak of a fungus called southern corn leaf blight destroyed 15 percent of the U.S. corn crop, and in 1988, drought reduced U.S. corn yields by almost 30 percent. 

==Manufacturing== 
===1NC=== 
**Status quo solves manufacture – multiple warrants none of their inherency evidence assumes**
**a. New federal partnerships and rail investments**
US DOT 9/12/12 (Fast Lane: the official blog of the DOT, “American manufacturing creating jobs, strengthening transportation infrastructure across the country” [[http://fastlane.dot.gov/2012/09/american-manufacturing-creating-jobs-strengthening-infrastructure-across-the-country.html#.UGkPwU3A-hk//NDW|http://fastlane.dot.gov/2012/09/american-manufacturing-creating-jobs-strengthening-infrastructure-across-the-country.html#.UGkPwU3A-hk//NDW]])
We’re also continuing to partner with the NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) from the Department of Commerce, which has established a solid track-record of success connecting manufacturers with American suppliers. Investments in rail present a particularly significant opportunity for American manufacturing. Since President Obama took office, we have invested more than $12 billion in our intercity passenger rail network, and the benefits of that investment don’t end in the cities building new tracks. Thanks to the growing network of rail suppliers, the benefits extend to nearly every state in the country. Construction materials and equipment for our new rail projects are coming from facilities in 49 different states. For example, as the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and California begin to update their equipment, we’re looking at more than $750 million worth of locomotives and railcars. From the biggest engines to the smallest bolts and circuits, those parts are going to be made right here in America. Together with great partners like the BlueGreen Alliance and American enterprises of all shapes and sizes, we can continue building a transportation system that is the envy of the world. And we can build a manufacturing sector that gives families across the nation a fair shot at the American dream.

**Long term outlook looks good for US manufacturing**
Landers, 09/24 (Jim Landers is a policy analyst for the Dallas news, "Lower Labor, energy costs propel US manufacturing" on September 24, 2012 from www.dallasnews.com/business/columnists/jim-landers/20120924-lower-labor-energy-costs-propel-u.s.-manufacturing.ece)
Cheap natural gas, high productivity, lower wages and weaker unions are combining to make the United States a manufacturing powerhouse, says the Boston Consulting Group. The current trade deficit may suggest otherwise, but Boston Consulting senior partner Hal Sirkin predicts U.S.-based manufacturers will hire more than a million workers over the next eight years to capitalize on these advantages.¶ “Import displacement is taking place, too,” Sirkin said. “We’re not there yet with China. But it’s coming.”¶ By Sirkin’s calculations, manufacturers that use U.S. workers will have an advantage over other developed nations of 20 to 45 percent by 2015. Both wages and productivity are factored into that mix. U.S.-based plants also have an easier time hiring and firing workers, giving their employers more flexibility.¶ Sirkin said one U.S. company working with Boston Consulting discovered it would have to pay its Dutch workforce for eight years if it shut down its production facility in the Netherlands.¶ “They face very high exit barriers,” he said. “So they’ll run the factory down, and wait for the workers to retire.”¶ Other factors are adding to the U.S. advantage. A bonanza in natural gas is providing U.S. factories with cheap energy and raw materials. European manufacturers pay twice as much for natural gas. Japan pays three times as much. Largely because of the surging use of gas by U.S. generators, a similar differential exists with industrial electricity prices.¶ And after decades of large trade deficits, U.S. ports have plenty of capacity for exports.¶ Texas is at the forefront of these relative shifts.

**Terrorists are not pursuing WMD – it is impractical and against their moral code**
Parachini, 03 (RAND Policy Analyst, The Washington Quarterly, Putting WMD Terrorism into Perspective, Volume 26 Issue 4, 2003, http://www.twq.com/03autumn/docs/03autumn_parachini.pdf)
An apparent lack of interest on the part of terrorist groups in acquiring unconventional weapons also helps explain why unconventional weapons attacks are so rare. In the case studies on the Irish Republican Army (IRA), the FARC, and Hamas, political vision, practical military utility, and moral codes all restrained them in part from seeking and using unconventional weapons. In some cases, group leaders indicated to members that the use of chemical or biological weapons would not be legitimate to their struggle. Hamas leader Abu Shannab, for one, stated that the use of poison was contrary to Islamic teachings.22 Although Hamas is a religiously based organization, its struggle to establish a Palestinian state on Israeli territory and to eliminate Israel as a state is decidedly political.

===2NC=== 
**US Manufacturing increasing now- litany of reasons**
McCutcheon, 09/21 (Robert McCutcheon, the U.S. industrial products leader of PwC, "Manufacturing May Be Coming Back to the US, Long Term" on September 21, 2012 fromwww.forbes.com/sites/forbesleadershipforum/2012/09/21/manufacturing-may-be-coming-back-to-the-u-s-long-term/)
A number of signs, beyond the current cyclical recovery in domestic manufacturing, suggest that the U.S. may be entering a longer-term manufacturing resurgence. People have long worried about the nation’s relatively high labor costs and challenges in competing with developing markets, particularly in Asia and Latin America, but after decades of manufacturing migration overseas, the tide may be turning.¶ That’s not only because of the nation’s improving labor cost competitiveness. Economists have noted that China’s labor costs are rising, affecting its manufacturing profits. Yet the overall cost premium, based on the difference in absolute wages between the U.S. and China, is actually expanding, so labor arbitrage involving China and other low labor cost markets will likely persist. The real news is that a range of structural changes are emerging that could drive a U.S. manufacturing renaissance. A sustained manufacturing rebound could lead to potentially improving investment, employment, production output and research and development.¶ PwC’s recent report A Homecoming for U.S. Manufacturing? evaluates the key factors that may lead to the U.S. becoming a more attractive manufacturing location. Many manufacturers are increasingly reevaluating their U.S. strategies, such as their separation of R&D and production, and their production abroad and importation back to U.S. buyers. Depending on the industry, they may find considerable benefits in establishing regionalized supply chains and R&D facilities in the U.S., including reducing costs, shortening lead times, protecting intellectual property, and avoiding many of the risk factors of developing markets. Localizing production can help reduce supply chain disruptions that cost American industrial manufacturers $2.2 billion last year, according to the PwC report. Bringing manufacturing production back to the U.S. generally holds greater advantage for some industries than others. Taking into account labor, materials, transportation, and energy costs, the chemicals, primary metals, and heavy equipment manufacturing industries stand to benefit most from maintaining or expanding facilities in the U.S. Companies in wood, plastic, and rubber products could also benefit significantly, but their lower net imports might limit their benefits from on-shoring.¶ The bull market in energy commodities has driven up transportation costs for manufacturers with global supply chains, leading some machinery companies to produce more in the U.S. for sale in North America. If transportation costs remain elevated, perhaps because of growing global demand for energy, production closer to home may grow more attractive. Also, it can cut down on lead times, reduce inventory levels, diminish some currency risks, increase control over intellectual property, and reduce supply chain disruption risks. In addition, progress in extracting natural gas from shale has created new opportunities for manufacturers in several industries, particularly chemicals and metals, thanks to more affordable energy and greater downstream demand.¶ Also, manufacturers are increasingly concerned about currency fluctuations. The depreciation of the dollar and rise of China’s currency has narrowed the cost gap between producing domestically and importing from China for domestic consumption. Moreover, the long-term decline in the dollar helps make the U.S. a potentially more competitive location for manufacturing for export, and there has been strong growth in the exports of goods since the end of the recession. The appreciation of the yuan relative to the U.S. dollar may continue longer-term as China’s economy grows, which could further help U.S. manufacturers.¶ U.S. demand remains supreme. Although China and other emerging markets are expected to keep having faster gross domestic product growth than the U.S., our advantage in wealth, in real GDP per capita, is expected to persist, dwarfing China and other emerging markets. This difference in standard of living, as well as the size of the U.S. market, supports investment in the domestic production of goods targeted for U.S. consumption. In addition, the U.S. labor force remains strong.¶ As for the availability of capital, although credit standards aren’t at the levels reached during the financial crisis, banks have resumed tightening their credit requirements. Borrowing in China and has become more difficult, too, though, so manufacturers may shy away from longer supply chains and the risks they carry, including getting inventory stuck in transit, particularly in industries with short product cycles or high spoilage.¶ The U.S. has the highest statutory corporate tax rate among developed countries. This has spurred talk of tax reform to boost economic growth and employment. Proposals include a lower statutory rate, tax incentives, and extending or making permanent the R&D tax credit. However, the tax and regulatory environments do bring uncertainty to the expansion of domestic manufacturing.¶ All these considerations, as well as labor costs, are affecting manufacturers’ decisions whether to establish production facilities in the U.S., closer to their domestic customers. Can we expect an increase in re-shoring as a result? Will “Made in USA” become more common? Only time will tell, but a wide range of signals now suggest a potential renaissance of the U.S. manufacturing sector.

**Manufacturing increasing and unemployment decreasing**
BBC, 09/20 (BBC News, "US manufacturing growth modest, PMI survey shows," on September 20, 2012 from www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-19660959)
Growth in the US manufacturing sector remained "modest" during September, according to a closely-watched survey.¶ The Markit Flash US Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) was unchanged from August's figure of 51.5. A reading above 50 implies growth.¶ While manufacturing output continued to rise, "growth was only marginal and the weakest for three years", [[http://www.markiteconomics.com/MarkitFiles/Pages/ViewPressRelease.aspx?ID=10081|Markit said]].¶ Input price inflation reached a four-month high, the survey found, but there was a slight increase in employment.¶ New domestic orders continued to rise, but the number of export orders experienced its steepest fall since October 2011.¶ The index score for new export orders was 47.9, down from 48.8 in August, reflecting poor economic data from China and the eurozone.¶ Earlier on Thursday, separate PMI surveys indicated that China's manufacturing sector declined for the 11th month in a row in September, although the rate of decline slowed.¶ Meanwhile activity among eurozone firms suffered its steepest contraction since June 2009, the PMI survey for the region found.¶ Stimulus measures¶ The PMI data follows earlier reports from the US Labor Department that initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell by 3,000 last week to a seasonally-adjusted figure of 382,000.¶ The four-week moving average of new claims rose by 2,000 to 377,750, its highest level since June.¶ The Federal Reserve, led by Ben Bernanke, recently announced another round of quantitative easing to help stimulate the US economy.¶ It intends to buy $40bn (£24.7bn) worth of mortgage-backed securities every month until the jobs market recovers.¶ The US unemployment rate has been over 8% for three years and currently stands at 8.1%.

**No disease can kill us all – it would have to be everything at once** 
Gladwell, 95 (Malcolm, The New Republic, 7/17/95 and 7/24/95, “The Plague Year”, Lexis)
What would a real Andromeda Strain look like? It would be highly infectious like the flu, spread through casual contact. But it would also have to be structured in such a way as to avoid the kind of selection bias that usually exists against virulent strains. For that reason, it would need to move stealthily through its host, infecting so silently that the victim would not know to take precautions, and so slowly that the victim would have years in which pass on the infection to someone else. The Andromeda Strain, in short, the virus that really could kill 80 or 90 percent of humanity, would be an airborne version of HIV. In fact, doomsday types have for years been conjuring up this possibility for the end of mankind. The problem, however, is that it is very difficult to imagine how such a super-virus could ever come about. For a start, it is not clear how HIV could become airborne and still be lethal. (This was the argument of Howard Temin, the late Nobel Prize-winning virologist.) What makes HIV so dangerous is that it seeks out and selectively kills the key blood cells of the human immune system. To be airborne, it would have to shift its preference to the cells of the respiratory system. (Ebola, which is not nearly so selective, probably doesn't need to change personality to become airborne.) How, then, could it still cause aids? Why wouldn't it be just another cold virus? Then there is the problem of mutation. To become airborne, HIV would have to evolve in such a way as to become more durable. Right now the virus is highly sensitive to changes in temperature and light. But it is hardly going to do any damage if it dies the moment it is coughed into the air and exposed to ultraviolet rays. HIV would have to get as tough as a cold virus, which can live for days on a countertop or a doorknob. At the same time HIV would have to get more flexible. Right now HIV mutates in only a limited manner. The virus essentially keeps changing its clothes, but its inner workings stay the same. It kills everyone by infecting the same key blood cells. To become airborne, it would have to undergo a truly fundamental transformation, switching to an entirely different class of cells. How can HIV make two contradictory changes at the same time, becoming both less and more flexible? This is what is wrong with the Andromeda Strain argument. Every infectious agent that has ever plagued humanity has had to adopt a specific strategy, but every strategy carries a corresponding cost, and this makes human counterattack possible. Malaria is vicious and deadly, but it relies on mosquitoes to spread from one human to the next, which means that draining swamps and putting up mosquito netting can all but halt endemic malaria. Smallpox is extraordinarily durable, remaining infectious in the environment for years, but its very durability, its essential rigidity, is what makes it one of the easiest microbes to create a vaccine against. aids is almost invariably lethal because its attacks the body at its point of great vulnerability, that is, the immune system, but the fact that it targets blood cells is what makes it so relatively uninfectious. I could go on, but the point is obvious. Any microbe capable of wiping us all out would have to be everything at once: as contagious as flu, as durable as the cold, as lethal as Ebola, as stealthy as HIV and so doggedly resistant to mutation that it would stay deadly over the course of a long epidemic. But viruses are not, well, superhuman. They cannot do everything at once. It is one of the ironies of the analysis of alarmists such as Preston that they are all too willing to point out the limitations of human beings, but they neglect to point out the limitations of microscopic life forms.

**Multiple alternate causalities to disease**
Brower, 03 (Jennifer, science/technology policy analyst, and Peter Chalk, political scientist, Summer 2003, Rand Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, “Vectors Without Borders,” [[http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/summer2003/vectors.html]])
This year's outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Beijing, Hong Kong, Taipei, and Toronto is only one of the more recent examples of the challenge posed by infectious diseases. Highly resilient varieties of age-old ailments— as well as virulent emerging pathogens—are now prevalent throughout the world. These illnesses include cholera, pneumonia, malaria, and dysentery in the former case and Legionnaires' disease, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), Ebola, and SARS in the latter. In the United States, West Nile virus entered New York in 2000 and then spread to 44 states by 2002, and monkey pox struck the Midwest this June. In the latter half of the 20th century, almost 30 new human diseases were identified. The spread of several of them has been expedited by the growth of antibiotic and drug resistance. Globalization, modern medical practices, urbanization, climate change, sexual promiscuity, intravenous drug use, and acts of bioterrorism further increase the likelihood that people will come into contact with potentially fatal diseases.