=Security= 
[[toc]]
==1nc== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Security discourse causes apocalypse in the name of survival</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peter </span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Coviello</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, </span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">‘1</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way post-apocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, //changed// – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida’s suitably menacing phrase) “remainderless and a-symbolic destruction,”6 then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively //local// in shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings //somewhere else//, always to an “other” people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and the prosperity of a cherished “general population.” This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag’s incisive observation, from 1989, that, “Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not ‘Apocalypse Now’ but ‘Apocalypse from Now On.’”7 The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction – through the constant reproduction of the //figure// of apocalypse – agencies of power ensure their authority toact on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of //The History of Sexuality// addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, “life-administering.” Power, he contends, “exerts a positive influence on life … [and] endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations.” In his brief comments on what he calls “the atomic situation,” however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as “managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race,” agencies of modern power presume to act “//on// //the behalf of the existence of everyone//.” Whatsoever might beconstrued as a threat to life and survival serves to authorize //any// expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. “If genocide is indeed the dream of modern power,” Foucault writes, “this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.”8 For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear orotherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Vote neg to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graeme </span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Robert </span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-size: 12pt;">Bruce</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span class="2xBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">‘</span><span class="AuthorDate" style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(//Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers//, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The inability to give meaning to global changes reflects partly the enclosed, elitist world of professional security analysts and bureaucratic experts, where entry is gained by learning and accepting to speak a particular, exclusionary language. The contributors to this book are familiar with the discourse, but accord no privileged place to its ‘knowledge form as reality’ in debates on defence and security. Indeed, they believe that </span><span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">d</span>ebate will be furthered only through a long overdue critical re-evaluation of elite perspectives. Pluralistic, democratically-oriented perspectives on Australia’s identity are both required and essential if Australia’s thinking on defence and security is to be invigorated.
This is not a conventional policy book; nor should it be, in the sense of offering policy-makers and their academic counterparts sets of neat alternative solutions, in familiar language and format, to problems they pose. This expectation is in itself a considerable part of the problem to be analysed. It is, however, a book about policy, one that questions how problems are framed by policy-makers. It challenges the proposition that irreducible bodies of real knowledge on defence and security exist independently of their ‘context in the world’, and it demonstrates how security policy is articulated authoritatively by the elite keepers of that knowledge, experts trained to recognize enduring, universal wisdom. All others, from this perspective, must accept such wisdom or remain outside the expert domain, tainted by their inability to comply with the ‘rightness’ of the official line. But it is precisely the official line, or at least its image of the world, that needs to be problematised. If the critic responds directly to the demand for policy alternatives, without addressing this image, he or she is tacitly endorsing it. Before engaging in the policy debate the critics need to reframe the basic terms of reference. This book, then, reflects and underlines the importance of Antonio Gramsci and Edward Said’s ‘critical intellectuals’.15
The demand, tacit or otherwise, that the policy-maker’s frame of reference be accepted as the only basis for discussion and analysis ignores a three thousand year old tradition commonly associated with Socrates and purportedly integral to the Western tradition of democratic dialogue. More immediately, it ignores post-seventeenth century democratic traditions which insist that a good society must have within it some way of critically assessing its knowledge and the decisions based upon that knowledge which impact upon citizens of such a society. This is a tradition with a slightly different connotation in contemporary liberal democracies which, during the Cold War, were proclaimed different and superior to the totalitarian enemy precisely because there were institutional checks and balances upon power. In short, one of the major differences between ‘open societies’ and their (closed) counterparts behind the Iron Curtain was that the former encouraged the critical testing of the knowledge and decisions of the powerful and assessing them against liberal democratic principles. The latter tolerated criticism only on rare and limited occasions. For some, this represented the triumph of rational-scientific methods of inquiry and techniques of falsification. For others, especially since positivism and rationalism have lost much of their allure, it meant that for society to become open and liberal, sectors of the population must be independent of the state and free to question its knowledge and power. Though we do not expect this position to be accepted by every reader, contributors to this book believe that critical dialogue is long overdue in Australia and needs to be listened to. For all its liberal democratic trappings, Australia’s security community continues to invoke closed monological narratives on defence and security.
This book also questions the distinctions between policy practice and academic theory that inform conventional accounts of Australian security. One of its major concerns, particularly in chapters 1 and 2, is to illustrate how theory is integral to the practice of security analysis and policy prescription. The book also calls on policy-makers, academics and students of defence and security to thinkcritically about what they are reading, writing and saying; to begin to ask, of their work and study, difficult and searching questions raised in other disciplines; to recognise, no matter how uncomfortable it feels, that what is involved in theory and practice is not the ability to identify a replacement for failed models, but a realisation that terms and concepts – state sovereignty, balance of power, security, and so on – are contested and problematic, and that the world is indeterminate, always becoming what is written about it. Critical analysis which shows how particular kinds of theoretical presumptions can effectively exclude vital areas of political life from analysis has direct practical implications for policy-makers, academics and citizens who face the daunting task of steering Australia through some potentially choppy international waters over the next few years. There is also much of interest in the chapters for those struggling to give meaning to a world where so much that has long been taken for granted now demands imaginative, incisive reappraisal. The contributors, too, have struggled to find meaning, often despairing at the terrible human costs of international violence. This is why readers will find no single, fully formed panacea for the world’s ills in general, or Australia’s security in particular. There are none. Every chapter, however, in its own way, offers something more than is found in orthodox literature, often by exposing ritualistic Cold War defence and security mind-sets that are dressed up as new thinking. Chapters 7 and 9, for example, present alternative ways of engaging in security and defence practice. Others (chapters 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8) seek to alert policy-makers, academics and students to alternative theoretical possibilities which might better serve an
Australian community pursuing security and prosperity in an uncertain world. All chapters confront the policy community and its counterparts in the academy with a deep awareness of the intellectual and material constraints imposed by dominant traditions of realism, but they avoid dismissive and exclusionary terms which often in the past characterized exchanges between policy-makers and their critics. This is because, as noted earlier, attention needs to be paid to the words and the thought processes of those being criticized. A close reading of this kind draws attention to underlying assumptions, showing they need to be recognized and questioned. A sense of doubt (in place of confident certainty) is a necessary prelude to a genuine search for alternative policies. First comes an awareness of the need for new perspectives, then specific policies may follow.
As Jim George argues in the following chapter, we need to look not so much at contending policies as they are made for us but atchallenging ‘the discursive process which gives [favoured interpretations of “reality”]their meaning and which direct [Australia’s] policy/analytical/military responses’. This process is not restricted to the small, official defence and security establishment huddled around the US-Australian War Memorial in Canberra. It also encompasses much of Australia’s academic defence and security community located primarily though not exclusively within the Australian National University and the University College of the University of New South Wales. These discursive processes are examined in detail in subsequent chapters as authors attempt to make sense of a politics of exclusion and closure which exercises disciplinary power over Australia’s security community. They also question the discourse of ‘regional security’, ‘security cooperation’, ‘peacekeeping’ and ‘alliance politics’ that are central to Australia’s official and academic security agenda in the 1990s. This is seen as an important task especially when, as is revealed, the disciplines of International Relations and Strategic Studies are under challenge from critical and theoretical debates ranging across the social sciences and humanities; debates that are nowhere to be found in Australian defence and security studies. The chapters graphically illustrate how Aus<span style="font-size: 12pt;">tralia’s public policies on defence and security are informed, underpinned and legitimised by a narrowly-based intellectual enterprise which draws strength from contested concepts of realism and liberalism, which in turn seek legitimacy through policy-making processes. Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>
=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biopower</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1nc</span>== 

First, transportation infrastructure individuates consumption through social diffusion, ramping up demand, locking in mobility for the affluent reproduces domination and exclusion from vital social functions. Technologies of efficiency police the population through the super-panopticon of perpetual surveillance.

Andrejevic 2003 [Mark, Fairfield University, “Monitored Mobility in the Era of Mass Customization,” Space and Culture, Vol. 6, No. 2]



Surely this dramatic increase reflected a feat of engineering—of highway building and automobile making, of designing and constructing the infrastructure for suburban sprawl and shopping malls—but it also represented a crucial spatial component of the dramatic increase in levels of consumption and production associated with 20thcentury consumer society. What Lefebvre (1991) described as the “productive consumption” of space associated with increased mobility helped to stimulate a productive spiral: suburbanization and its associated technologies of mobile and static privatization increased demand through spatial dispersion. Each household served as the repository for a private set of appliances that displaced or replaced forms of collective consumption: The automobile displaced the trolley, the radio the concert hall, the TV set the downtown movie theater, and so on. The demise of collective consumption increased demand for individual consumption thereby helping to absorb the goods produced by an increasingly rationalized and efficient industrial sector. Lefebvre provided one example of this spiral in his discussion of what Goodman called “asphalt’s magic circle”: Government taxes on gasoline are used to build an improved highway system, thereby subsidizing the use of automobiles and increasing the consumption of gasoline (and space) and in turn promoting the further production of automobiles (p. 374). As Lefebvre put it, This sequence of operations implies a productive consumption: the consumption of a space, and one that is doubly productive in that it produces both surplus value and another space. . . .What actually happens is that a vicious circle is set in train which for all its circularity is an invasive force serving dominant economic interests. (p. 374) The fact that Lefebvre refers to this spiral of production as a “strategy” suggests its association with techniques for the rationalization of production (and of the production of space). Indeed, the spatial differentiation associated with the rise of industrial capitalism offered the promise of individuation as a ruse of rationalization. Suburbanization offered an escape from urban congestion as surely as it served as a form of sorting, exclusion, and differentiation. Similarly, the interstate highway system mobilized the myth of the freedom of the road while simultaneously channeling movement through certain areas and around others. As Deleuze put it, “People can drive infinitely and ‘freely’ without being confined yet while still being perfectly controlled” (quoted in Allon, 2001, p. 20). From the very inception of mass society, the promise of differentiation, of freedom—in short, of an escape from its own stultifying homogeneity— has served as one of its guiding marketing strategies. (…continued on page 136…) It should be noted in advance that the consumption of space as a means of individuation is, in general, a form of consumption limited to affluent groups (as is the promise of individuation through the consumption of customized goods and services). As Morley (2000), quoting Massey, observed, the mobility of affluent classes is “quite different from the mobility of the international refugee or the unemployed migrant as a social experience” (p. 200)—not to mention the immobility of groups of people unable to relocate from regions of poverty, famine, and warfare. Echoing Foucault, it is tempting to observe that the bourgeoisie have endowed themselves with a “garrulous mobility”—one that permeates the ads for cell phones, cruise lines, and SUVs—and that just as there is a bourgeois form of monitored mobility, there are also class mobilities (subject to rather different forms of surveillance).Which is not to say that other groups are excluded from spatial monitoring but rather that much of this monitoring is devoted to the forms of sorting and exclusion described by Gandy (1993) and Lyon (1994). Indeed, the law enforcement correlative to consumer monitoring, especially in the newly terrorism-conscious United States, is what Marx (1988) has described as categorical suspicion:Monitoring is not limited to particular suspects but is universalized to figure out who the suspects might be. Of late, the spatial component of this type of monitoring has been developed as a technique to permit the automated recognition of criminal activity: Computers are programmed to recognize, in their monitoring of a particular space, interaction patterns associated with criminal activity and then to flag those interactions (Riordan, 1997). The intersection of spatio-temporal paths can be used as hieroglyphic representations of particular kinds of social interactions—hieroglyphs that reduce the need for human monitoring and thereby realize a superpanopticon that does not rely merely on the probability of being watched but on its certainty.



Second, ensuring the health of the social body is the underside of the power to mobilize populations for war. Global extinction would not be possible without the unquestioned biopolitics of the 1AC.

Foucault, in ’76 [Michel, The History of Sexuality, pg. 136-137]



Since the classical age the West has undergone a very¶ profound transformation of these mechanisms of power.¶ "Deduction" has

tended to be no longer the major form of¶ power but merely one element among others, working to¶ incite, reinforce, control, monitor, optimize, and organize¶ the forces under it: a power bent on generating forces, making¶ them grow, and ordering them, rather than one dedicated¶ to impeding them, making them submit, or destroying them.¶ There has been a parallel shift in the right of death, or at least¶ a tendency to align itself with the exigencies of a life-administering¶ power and to define itself accordingly. This death that¶ was based on the right of the sovereign is now manifested as¶ simply the reverse of the right of the social body to ensure,¶ maintain, or develop its life. Yet wars were never as bloody¶ as they have been since the nineteenth century, and all things being equal, never before did regimes visit such holocausts¶ on their own populations. But this formidable power of death¶ -and this is perhaps what accounts for part of its force and¶ the cynicism with which it has so greatly expanded its limits¶ -now presents itself as the counterpart of a power that¶ exerts a positive influence on life, that endeavors to administer,¶ optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls¶ and comprehensive regulations. Wars are no longer waged in¶ the name of a sovereign who must be defended; they are¶ waged on behalf of the existence of everyone; entire populations¶ are mobilized for the purpose of wholesale slaughter in¶ the name of life necessity: massacres have become vital. It is¶ as managers of life and survival, of bodies _and the race, that¶ so many regimes have been able to wage so many wars,¶ causing so many men to be killed. And through a turn that¶ closes the circle, as the technology of wars has caused them¶ to tend increasingly toward all-out destruction, the decision¶ that initiates them and the one that terminates them are in¶ fact increasingly informed by the naked question of survival.¶ The atomic situation is now at the end point of this process:¶ the power to expose a whole population to death is the¶ underside of the power to guarantee an individual's continued¶ existence. The principle underlying the tactics of battle-¶ that one has to be capable of killing in order to go on¶ living-has become the principle that defines the strategy of¶ states. But the existence in question is no longer the juridical¶ existence of sovereignty; at stake is the biological existence¶ of a population. If genocide is indeed the dream of modern¶ powers, this is not because of a recent return of the ancient¶ right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at¶ the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale¶ phenomena of population.

Finally, the alternative is a rejection of the affirmative’s dangerous biopolitics that justify the investment in transportation infrastructure.

And, our intervention into the aff’s regime of truth challenges the hegemony of modernity’s technological thought and drives for control. The alternative is a necessary first step to re-build the world brink-by-brick.

Edkins in ‘6 [Jenny December 2006, “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511] Edkins, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at



Of course, 'this regime is not merely ideological or superstructural; it was a condition of the formation and development of capitalism' (Foucault 1980a: 133), which means that interventions that challenge the regime of truth constitute a challenge to the hegemony of the social and economic system with which it is bound up. It is in this context of a particular, scientific regime of truth and the role of the intellectual that I want to discuss the ways in which the academic search for 'causes' and 'solutions' to the Northern Ireland conflict operates, and how this mode of working can prohibit change. The role of the intellectual, as both Gramsci and Foucault have argued, can be central to change and contestation, but it can also be part of the structures that prohibit change and keep existing structures and problematisations in place. I suggest that the particular form of intellectual work that identifies 'problems' and then proposes 'solutions' is problematic. It ultimately reinforces or reproduces certain ways of thinking and conceals the way that identifying something as a problem in the first place is already to take a particular stance in relation to it. I argue that the alternative in the case of violence in particular is to engage in intellectual activity that brings to light struggles hidden in detailed historical records or localised knowledges - an activity that Foucault calls genealogy - and emphasises the necessity for a gradual remaking of the world, not through narrative accounts that regularise and normalise history in terms of cause and effect, but through a slow re-building, brick by brick