=Bronx Science--Affirmative= 
[[toc|flat]]
I will post up 2AC blocks if requested - Lucy
shenl@bxscience.edu
=Yale 1AC= 
===Contention 1: Inherency=== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Put your warming CPs away – climate change is past the tipping point** </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">**(**Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP // Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Published on October 5th, 2010)</span>

¶ 14PROGRESS REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION TASK FORCE - 2010 PART TWO. THE IMPORTANCE OF ADAPTATION¶ Climate change is affecting many aspects of our society, our livelihoods, and our environment. Communities across the Nation are experiencing climate change impacts, such as changes in average temperatures, more extreme weather events, and rising sea levels.3 Historically, societies¶ and ecosystems have adjusted or adapted to natural variability in climatic conditions. However, the pace and impacts of climate change are occurring outside the range of past experiences, rendering many of our current adaptive mechanisms insufficient. In addition, climate change impacts do not act in isolation; rather, climate-related changes interact with and often magnify the impacts of existing non- climatic stressors. Decision-makers across the Nation will need to take proactive measures to better understand and prepare for current and future changes in climate conditions.¶ There is scientific consensus that the Earth’s climate is changing due to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.4,5,6 As a result, increased energy trapped in the atmosphere and the oceans due to these higher concentrations is already leading to impacts, including warmer average water and air temperatures (Figure 1), in the United States and globally.¶ The Obama Administration is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to minimize the future impacts of climate change. However, the climate impacts we are observing today will continue to increase, at least in the short-term, regardless of the degree to which greenhouse gas emissions are managed. This is driven by factors such as the long-lived nature of certain greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the absorption of heat by the Earth’s oceans. Even if we reduce our emissions, global average temperatures are predicted to rise over the next 100 years (Figure 2).7 In the long-term, theability to manage greenhouse gas emissions and moderate or reduce atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases will affect the magnitude of the impacts to which we will need to adapt.8 Therefore, mitigation and adaptation are inextricably linked, and both are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change
====That disrupts all transportation infrastructure==== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA ‘12</span>__</span>**--<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html>]</span>
Impacts on Roadways Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings and improved mobility from reduced snowfall and less-frequent winter storms since warmer winters may lead to reductions in snow and ice removal, as well as salting requirements. [1] [2]¶ Climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges. [1] [2]¶ Roadway damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Source: NASA (2005)¶ Exposure to flooding and extreme snow events also shortens the life expectancy of highways and roads. The stress of water and snow may cause damage, requiring more frequent maintenance, repairs, and rebuilding. Road infrastructure in coastal areas is particularly sensitive to more frequent and permanent flooding from sea level rise and storm surges. Approximately 60,000 miles of coastal roads in the United States are already exposed to flooding from coastal storms and high waves. Furthermore, major highways in coastal areas serve as critical evacuation routes. Evacuation routes must be protected from flooding and damage so they may be used for emergencies. [2] [3] In some locations, warmer temperatures are projected to cause more winter precipitation to fall as rain instead of snow. Winter flooding could occur more frequently, if the frozen ground cannot absorb precipitation. Landslides and wash-outs could also occur more frequently, as saturated soils are exposed to more rainwater. Drought in areas such as the Southwest could increase the likelihood of wildfires that reduce visibility and threaten roads and infrastructure. [1] [2] Impacts on Ice Roads Freezing temperatures are required for ice roads in Alaska. These are frozen routes used to connect northern communities, as well as the oil, gas, and mining industries. The tundra beneath these frozen roads is fragile, so transportation is limited to periods when the road is frozen. Warming temperatures would reduce the number of days ice roads are open, limiting transportation access to these areas. Impacts on Vehicles As temperatures increase, many types of vehicles can overheat, and tires will deteriorate more quickly. But milder winters, reductions in the number of cold days, delays in winter freezing, and earlier spring thaws may reduce cold-weather damage to vehicles. [1]Impacts on Railways Extreme heat can cause rails to buckle. Source: Volpe National Transportation Systems Center High temperatures cause rail tracks to expand and buckle. More frequent and severe heat waves may require track repairs or speed restrictions to avoid derailments. [1] Heavy precipitation could also lead to delays and disruption. For example, the June 2008 Midwest floods closed major east-west rail lines for several days. Tropical storms and hurricanes can also leave debris on railways, disrupting rail travel and freight transport. [1] [2] Like roadways, coastal railways and subways are subject to inundation from sea level rise and storm surges. This is particularly true in underground pathways and tunnels, which are often already below sea level. Increased flooding from heavy precipitation and storm surges could disrupt rail travel as well as freight operations. Damages from flooding may require rail lines and subway infrastructure to be rebuilt or raised in future expansion projects. [1] [2] Impacts on Air Transportation Infrastructure In addition to causing closures or delays, flooding may damage facilities, including airstrips. Some of the busiest airports in the United States are located in low-lying coastal areas, making them particularly vulnerable to inundation. For example, in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, many critical transportation infrastructure facilities (including Newark and LaGuardia airports) lie within the range of current and projected 50-year coastal storm surges. Many airstrips in Alaska are built on permafrost. Warmer temperatures would thaw permafrost and cause soils to settle, potentially damaging the foundation and structure of key infrastructure. Runways and airports may require rebuilding, relocation, or increased maintenance. [1] [2] Impacts on Ships and Sea Lanes¶ Ships are sensitive to many factors, including the depth of a channel and the extent of sea ice. Increasing temperatures could reduce the amount of sea ice in many important shipping lanes, extending the shipping season. Warmer winters will likely lead to less snow and ice accumulation on vessels, decks, and rigging in marine transportation. In the Arctic, warmer temperatures could also open up the possibility of a Northwest Passage, which could reduce shipping times and distances. However, these new passages may also provide a pathway for invasive species transport and survival. [1] [2]¶ Shipping lanes experiencing sea level rise will be able to accommodate larger ships, reducing shipping costs. However, higher sea levels will mean lower clearance under waterway bridges. In inland waterways where water levels are expected to decline, as in the Great Lakes, ships could face weight restrictions, as channels become too shallow. [1] [2]¶ Changes in precipitation can affect shipping in many ways. Flooding could close shipping channels, and increased runoff from extreme precipitation events could cause silt and debris to build up, leading to shallower channels. Changes in precipitation patterns could also affect the rate at which sediments accumulate, which may also make existing channels shallower and less accessible. In areas experiencing increasing drought, water levels could periodically decrease, limiting inland shipping on rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping.
====**Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al 12</span>** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

In early January 2009, a severe winter storm hit the Pacific Northwest (PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars. Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, this weather event was not an isolated case. During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08 (WSDOT, 2008). While we must be careful to distinguish individual extreme weather events, such as those above, from long-term trends in climate, consensus in the scientific community projects an increased frequency and intensity of major storms, temperature increases, and changes in seasonal precipitation as a very likely outcome of global climate change. Patterns that today are considered “extreme” may instead become a new normal. This is a potentially very costly problem as our existing surface transportation system has been designed and constructed based upon historical climate trends. Assumptions that have been used historically to design facilities and respond to weather-related “emergencies” may no longer work. A transportation system built without planning for changing climate will likely experience a variety of costly impacts in terms of damage and traveler delay. Among these impacts are inundation of coastal roads from SLR; erosion of roadways and bridge supports from heavy precipitation and storms; increased road and rail maintenance due to flooding and temperature extremes; and travel delays due to weather events and more widespread wildfires. As a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (28 percent nationally), transportation was one of the early sectors to begin responding to the climate change threat, primarily through efforts to account for and reduce the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere (Center for Transportation and the Environment, 2008). Strategies involve a wide range of activities, including improvements in vehicle and fuel technologies, and land use planning and transportation operation improvements that reduce vehicle miles travelled and increase the overall efficiency of travel (Table 1). These activities are collectively referred to as climate mitigation (Cambridge Systematics, 2009). Recent studies indicate that climate change planning efforts conducted by governments have thus far overwhelmingly focused on mitigation strategies to reduce GHGs, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation (Wheeler, 2008).


===Contention 2: Economy=== 
====**Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Transportation is such an integral part of daily life in the United States that few pause to consider its importance. Yet the Nation’s strong intermodal network of highways, public transit, rail, marine, and aviation is central to our ability to work, go to school, enjoy leisure time, maintain our homes, and stay in touch with friends and family. U.S. businesses depend on reliable transportation services to receive materials and transport products to their customers; a robust transportation network is essential to the economy. In short, a sound transportation system is vital to the Nation’s social and economic future. Transportation professionals – including planners, designers, engineers, financial specialists, ecologists, safety experts, and others – work hard to ensure that U.S. communities have access to safe and dependable transportation services. Given the ongoing importance of the Nation’s transportation system, it is appropriate to consider what effect climate change may have on this essential network. Through a regional case study of the central Gulf Coast, this report begins to examine the potential implications of climate change on transportation infrastructure, operations, and services. Investments in transportation are substantial and result in infrastructure that lasts for decades. Transportation plans and designs should, therefore, be carefully considered and well informed by a range of factors, including consideration of climate variability and change. Climate also affects the safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure and systems. This research investigates the potential impacts of climate variability and change on transportation, and it assesses how planners and managers may incorporate this information into their decisions to ensure a reliable and robust future transportation network. This report does not contain recommendations about specific facilities or adaptation strategies, but rather seeks to contribute to the information available so that States and local communities can make more informed decisions when planning for the future.¶ The climate models used to estimate temperature changes agree that it will be warmer in the future. According to the IPCC report, global average warming is expected to be about 0.4°C (0.72°F) during the next 20 years. Even if the concentrations of all greenhouse gases and aerosols had been stabilized at 2000 levels, warming of 0.2°C (0.36°F) would be expected during this period (IPCC, 2007). Over the longer term, the IPCC models project average global temperature increases ranging from 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 6.4°C (11.5°F) by the end of the 21st century, although climate responses in specific regions will vary. These projections are the result of reviewing a robust set of global climate models under a variety of future scenarios – using a range of assumptions for future economic activity and energy use – for the Earth as a whole. The average increase in temperature may not be as important to the transportation community as the changes in extreme temperature, which also are expected to increase. Over the last 50 years, the frequency of cold days and nights has declined, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent. The number of days with temperature above 32°C (90°F) and 38°C (100°F) has been increasing since 1970, as has the intensity and length of periods of drought. The IPCC report finds that it is virtually certain that the next century will witness warmer and more frequent hot days and nights over most land areas (IPCC, 2007). Increasing temperatures have the potential to affect multiple modes of transportation, primarily impacting surface transportation. The transportation impacts mentioned most often in the literature included pavement damage; rail buckling; less lift and fuel efficiency for aircraft; and the implications of lower inland water levels, thawing permafrost, reduced ice cover on seaways, and an increase in vegetation. These are discussed in greater detail below:¶ • Pavement damage – The quality of highway pavement was identified as a potential issue for temperate climates, where more extreme summer temperatures and/or more frequent freeze/thaw cycles may be experienced. Extremely hot days, over an extended period of time, could lead to the rutting of highway pavement and the more rapid breakdown of asphalt seal binders, resulting in cracking, potholing, and bleeding. This, in turn, could damage the structural integrity of the road and/or cause the pavement to become more slippery when wet. Adaptation measures mentioned included more frequent maintenance, milling out ruts, and the laying of more heat resistant asphalt.¶ • Rail buckling – Railroads could encounter rail buckling more frequently in temperate climates that experience extremely hot temperatures. If unnoticed, rail buckling can result in derailment of trains. Peterson (2008) noted, “Lower speeds and shorter trains, to shorten braking distance, and lighter loads to reduce track stress are operational impacts.” Adaptation measures included better monitoring of rail temperatures and ultimately more maintenance of the track, replacing it when needed.¶ • Vegetation growth – The growing season for deciduous trees that shed their leaves may be extended, causing more slipperiness on railroads and roads and visual obstructions. Possible adaptation measures included better management of the leaf foliage and planting more low-maintenance vegetation along transportation corridors to act as buffers (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reductions in aircraft lift and efficiency – Higher temperatures would reduce air density, decreasing both lift and the engine efficiency of aircraft. As a result, longer runways and/or more powerful airplanes would be required. However, one analyst projected that technical advances would minimize the need for runway redesign as aircraft become more powerful and efficient (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reduced water levels – Changes in water levels were discussed in relation to marine transport. Inland waterways such as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River could experience lower water levels due to increased temperatures and evaporation; these lower water levels would mean that ships and barges would not be able to carry as much weight. Adaptation measures included reducing cargo loads, designing vessels to require less draft, or dredging the water body to make it deeper.¶ • Reduced ice cover – Reduced ice cover was generally considered a positive impact of increasing temperatures in the literature. For example, a study conducted by John D. Lindeberg and George M. Albercook, which was included in the Report of the Great Lakes Regional Assessment Group for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, stated, “the costs of additional dredging [due to lower water levels] could be partially mitigated by the benefits of additional shipping days on the [Great] Lakes caused by less persistent ice cover” (Sousounis, 2000, p. 41). Additionally, arctic sea passages could open; for example, the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment noted, “projected reductions in sea-ice extent are likely to improve access along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage” (Instanes et al., 2005, p. 934). However, negative environmental and security impacts also may result from reduced ice cover as well from as the increased level of shipping. These are discussed below in the subsection on indirect impacts (Section 1.3.6.).¶ • Thawing permafrost – The implications of thawing permafrost for Arctic infrastructure receive considerable attention in the literature. Permafrost is the foundation upon which much of the Arctic’s infrastructure is built. The literature consistently noted that as the permafrost thaws the infrastructure will become unstable – an effect being experienced today. Roads, railways, and airstrips are all vulnerable to the thawing of permafrost. Adaptation measures vary depending on the amount of permafrost that underlies any given piece of infrastructure. The literature suggested that some assets will only need rehabilitation, other assets will need to be relocated, and different construction methods will need to be used, including the possibility of installing cooling mechanisms. According to the Arctic Research Commission, “roads, railways, and airstrips placed on ice-rich continuous permafrost will generally require relocation to well-drained natural foundations or replacement with substantially different construction methods” (U.S. Arctic Research Commission Permafrost Task Force, 2003, p. 29).¶ • Other – Other impacts of increasing temperatures included a reduction in ice loads on structures (such as bridges and piers), which could eventually allow them to be designed for less stress, and a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade** </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WTO et al ’09</span>** (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]]</span>)

As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected to become more widespread and to intensify. For example, even with small increases in average temperature, the type, frequency and intensity of extreme weather – such as hurricanes, typhoons, fl oods, droughts, and storms – are projected to increase. Th e distribution of these weather events, however, is expected to vary considerably among regions and countries, and impacts will depend to a large extent on the vulnerability of populations or ecosystems. Developing countries, and particularly the poorest and most marginalized populations within these countries, will generally be both the most adversely aff ected by the impacts of future climate change and the most vulnerable to its eff ects, because they are less able to adapt than developed countries and populations. In addition, climate change risks compound the other challenges which are already faced by these countries, including tackling poverty, improving health care, increasing food security and improving access to sources of energy. For instance, climate change is projected to lead to hundreds of millions of people having limited access to water supplies or facing inadequate water quality, which will, in turn, lead to greater health problems. Although the impacts of climate change are specifi c to location and to the level of development, most sectors of the global economy are expected to be affected and these impacts will often have implications for trade. For example, three trade-related areas are considered to be particularly vulnerable to climate change. Agriculture is considered to be one of the sectors most vulnerable to climate change, and also represents a key sector for international trade. In low-latitude regions, where most developing countries are located, reductions of about 5 to 10 per cent in the yields of major cereal crops are projected even in the case of small temperature increases of around 1° C. Although it is expected that local temperature increases of between 1° C and 3° C would have benefi cial impacts on agricultural outputs in mid- to high-latitude regions, warming beyond this range will most likely result in increasingly negative impacts for these regions also. According to some studies, crop yields in some African countries could fall by up to 50 per cent by 2020, with net revenues from crops falling by as much as 90 per cent by 2100. Depending on the location, agriculture will also be prone to water scarcity due to loss of glacial meltwater and reduced rainfall or droughts. Tourism is another industry that may be particularly vulnerable to climate change, for example, through changes in snow cover, coastal degradation and extreme weather. Both the fi sheries and forestry sectors also risk being adversely impacted by climate change. Likewise, ix Part IV Part III Part II Part I there are expected to be major impacts on coastal ecosystems, including the disappearance of coral and the loss of marine biodiversity. Finally, one of the clearest impacts will be on trade infrastructure and routes. The IPCC has identified port facilities, as well as buildings, roads, railways, airports and bridges, as being dangerously at risk of damage from rising sea levels and the increased occurrence of instances of extreme weather, such as fl ooding and hurricanes. Moreover, it is projected that changes in sea ice, particularly in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.
====**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freidberg & Schonfeld, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **-**-- *Professor of Politics and IR at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, AND **senior editor of Commentary and a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton (10/21/2008, Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>
With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America's geostrategic dominance likely to diminish? If so, what would that mean? One immediate implication of the crisis that began on Wall Street and spread across the world is that the primary instruments of U.S. foreign policy will be crimped. The next president will face an entirely new and adverse fiscal position. Estimates of this year's federal budget deficit already show that it has jumped $237 billion from last year, to $407 billion. With families and businesses hurting, there will be calls for various and expensive domestic relief programs. In the face of this onrushing river of red ink, both Barack Obama and John McCain have been reluctant to lay out what portions of their programmatic wish list they might defer or delete. Only Joe Biden has suggested a possible reduction -- foreign aid. This would be one of the few popular cuts, but in budgetary terms it is a mere grain of sand. Still, Sen. Biden's comment hints at where we may be headed: toward a major reduction in America's world role, and perhaps even a new era of financially-induced isolationism. Pressures to cut defense spending, and to dodge the cost of waging two wars, already intense before this crisis, are likely to mount. Despite the success of the surge, the war in Iraq remains deeply unpopular. Precipitous withdrawal -- attractive to a sizable swath of the electorate before the financial implosion -- might well become even more popular with annual war bills running in the hundreds of billions. Protectionist sentiments are sure to grow stronger as jobs disappear in the coming slowdown. Even before our current woes, calls to save jobs by restricting imports had begun to gather support among many Democrats and some Republicans. In a prolonged recession, gale-force winds of protectionism will blow Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

====**US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi ‘4</span>** (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)

The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider global objectives. Fighting terrorism, reducing poverty, improving health, integrating China and other countries in the global economy — all of these issues are linked, in one way or another, to world trade. This is not to say that trade is the answer to all America's economic concerns; only that meaningful solutions are inconceivable without it. The world trading system is the linchpin of today's global order — underpinning its security as well as its prosperity. A successful WTO is an example of how multilateralism can work. Conversely, if it weakens or fails, much else could fail with it. This is something which the US — at the epicentre of a more interdependent world — cannot afford to ignore. These priorities must continue to guide US policy — as they have done since the Second World War. America has been the main driving force behind eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations, including the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the WTO. The US — together with the EU — was instrumental in launching the latest Doha Round two years ago. Likewise, the recent initiative, spearheaded by Ambassador Zoellick, to re-energize the negotiations and move them towards a successful conclusion is yet another example of how essential the US is to the multilateral process — signalling that the US remains committed to further liberalization, that the Round is moving, and that other countries have a tangible reason to get on board. The reality is this: when the US leads the system can move forward; when it withdraws, the system drifts. The fact that US leadership is essential, does not mean it is easy. As WTO rules have expanded, so too has as the complexity of the issues the WTO deals with — everything from agriculture and accounting, to tariffs and telecommunication. The WTO is also exerting huge gravitational pull on countries to join — and participate actively — in the system. The WTO now has 146 Members — up from just 23 in 1947 — and this could easily rise to 170 or more within a decade. Emerging powers like China, Brazil, and India rightly demand a greater say in an institution in which they have a growing stake. So too do a rising number of voices outside the system as well. More and more people recognize that the WTO matters. More non-state actors — businesses, unions, environmentalists, development NGOs — want the multilateral system to reflect their causes and concerns. A decade ago, few people had even heard of the GATT. Today the WTO is front page news. A more visible WTO has inevitably become a more politicized WTO. The sound and fury surrounding the WTO's recent Ministerial Meeting in Cancun — let alone Seattle — underline how challenging managing the WTO can be. But these challenges can be exaggerated. They exist precisely because so many countries have embraced a common vision. Countries the world over have turned to open trade — and a rules-based system — as the key to their growth and development. They agreed to the Doha Round because they believed their interests lay in freer trade, stronger rules, a more effective WTO. Even in Cancun the great debate was whether the multilateral trading system was moving fast and far enough — not whether it should be rolled back. Indeed, it is critically important that we draw the right conclusions from Cancun — which are only now becoming clearer. The disappointment was that ministers were unable to reach agreement. The achievement was that they exposed the risks of failure, highlighted the need for North-South collaboration, and — after a period of introspection — acknowledged the inescapable logic of negotiation. Cancun showed that, if the challenges have increased, it is because the stakes are higher. The bigger challenge to American leadership comes from inside — not outside — the United States. In America's current debate about trade, jobs and globalization we have heard a lot about the costs of liberalization. We need to hear more about the opportunities. We need to be reminded of the advantages of America's openness and its trade with the world — about the economic growth tied to exports; the inflation-fighting role of imports, the innovative stimulus of global competition. We need to explain that freer trade works precisely because it involves positive change — better products, better job opportunities, better ways of doing things, better standards of living. While it is true that change can be threatening for people and societies, it is equally true that the vulnerable are not helped by resisting change — by putting up barriers and shutting out competition. They are helped by training, education, new and better opportunities that — with the right support policies — can flow from a globalized economy. The fact is that for every job in the US threatened by imports there is a growing number of high-paid, high skill jobs created by exports. Exports supported 7 million workers a decade ago; that number is approaching around 12 million today. And these new jobs — in aerospace, finance, information technology — pay 10 per cent more than the average American wage. We especially need to inject some clarity — and facts — into the current debate over the outsourcing of services jobs. Over the next decade, the US is projected to create an average of more than 2 million new services jobs a year — compared to roughly 200,000 services jobs that will be outsourced. I am well aware that this issue is the source of much anxiety in America today. Many Americans worry about the potential job losses that might arise from foreign competition in services sectors. But it’s worth remembering that concerns about the impact of foreign competition are not new. Many of the reservations people are expressing today are echoes of what we heard in the 1970s and 1980s. But people at that time didn’t fully appreciate the power of American ingenuity. Remarkable advances in technology and productivity laid the foundation for unprecedented job creation in the 1990s and there is no reason to doubt that this country, which has shown time and again such remarkable potential for competing in the global economy, will not soon embark again on such a burst of job-creation. America's openness to service-sector trade — combined with the high skills of its workforce — will lead to more growth, stronger industries, and a shift towards higher value-added, higher-paying employment. Conversely, closing the door to service trade is a strategy for killing jobs, not saving them. Americans have never run from a challenge and have never been defeatist in the face of strong competition. Part of this challenge is to create the conditions for global growth and job creation here and around the world. I believe Americans realize what is at stake. The process of opening to global trade can be disruptive, but they recognize that the US economy cannot grow and prosper any other way. They recognize the importance of finding global solutions to shared global problems. Besides, what is the alternative to the WTO? Some argue that the world's only superpower need not be tied down by the constraints of the multilateral system. They claim that US sovereignty is compromised by international rules, and that multilateral institutions limit rather than expand US influence. Americans should be deeply sceptical about these claims. Almost none of the trade issues facing the US today are any easier to solve unilaterally, bilaterally or regionally. The reality is probably just the opposite. What sense does it make — for example — to negotiate e-commerce rules bilaterally? Who would be interested in disciplining agricultural subsidies in a regional agreement but not globally? How can bilateral deals — even dozens of them — come close to matching the economic impact of agreeing to global free trade among 146 countries? Bilateral and regional deals can sometimes be a complement to the multilateral system, but they can never be a substitute. There is a bigger danger. By treating some countries preferentially, bilateral and regional deals exclude others — fragmenting global trade and distorting the world economy. Instead of liberalizing trade — and widening growth — they carve it up. Worse, they have a domino effect: bilateral deals inevitably beget more bilateral deals, as countries left outside are forced to seek their own preferential arrangements, or risk further marginalization. This is precisely what we see happening today. There are already over two hundred bilateral and regional agreements in existence, and each month we hear of a new or expanded deal. There is a basic contradiction in the assumption that bilateral approaches serve to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based system. Even when intended to spur free trade, they can ultimately risk undermining it. This is in no one's interest, least of all the United States. America led in the creation of the multilateral system after 1945 precisely to avoid a return to hostile blocs — blocs that had done so much to fuel interwar instability and conflict. America's vision, in the words of Cordell Hull, was that “enduring peace and the welfare of nations was indissolubly connected with the friendliness, fairness and freedom of world trade”. Trade would bind nations together, making another war unthinkable. Non-discriminatory rules would prevent a return to preferential deals and closed alliances. A network of multilateral initiatives and organizations — the Marshal Plan, the IMF, the World Bank, and the GATT, now the WTO — would provide the institutional bedrock for the international rule of law, not power. Underpinning all this was the idea that freedom — free trade, free democracies, the free exchange of ideas — was essential to peace and prosperity, a more just world. It is a vision that has emerged pre-eminent a half century later. Trade has expanded twenty-fold since 1950. Millions in Asia, Latin America, and Africa are being lifted out of poverty, and millions more have new hope for the future. All the great powers — the US, Europe, Japan, India, China and soon Russia — are part of a rules-based multilateral trading system, greatly increasing the chances for world prosperity and peace. There is a growing realization that — in our interdependent world — sovereignty is constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.
====**Nuclear War**==== 
**__Panzner 8__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.
===Contention 3: Heg=== 
====**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Two internal links</span>**==== 
====**First is Airports**==== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Absent adaptation measures, climate change will impair airport operation** </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**TRBNA 11** (Transportation Research Board of the National Academies)</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ]</span>
The potential serious physical damage to the facilities and infrastructure of an airport mainly result from the changes in precipitation, temperature, sea level, storm surge, and winds. The risks include flooding, heat buckle and other forms of expansion stress, permafrost thaw buckle in northern regions, perimeter security breaches, and fuel contamination or spills from pipe ruptures. As noted in the previous section, secondary effects of climate change may also cause new risks, such as extreme erosion, soil depletion, wild land fires, and facility damage from new species of animals and plants. Addressing potential physical damage from future climate change can generally be done • Rebuilding, relocating, or abandoning shoreline facilities (e.g., seawalls, sewage treatment outfalls, and building and runway foundations) to accommodate expected future higher sea levels It would be unusual for these types of physical improvements to be carried out in isolation from the regular process of continuous planning, design, development, and maintenance that typically goes on at any airport. Climate change adaptation actions for the physical plant can be seen as one of many objectives to be incorporated into the master planning and asset management process. This approach ensures that solutions are thought through in an integrated and comprehensive manner, to minimize the costs of the improvements and maximize the efficiency of the development process over time. The goal is to adapt to this new consideration of climate change in a way that still maximizes the utility of the often very long lived components of the airport infrastructure.
====**Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**DAF 01** (Department of the Air Force)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>

The Air National Guard is a constitutionally unique military organization with roots dating back to the very beginnings of our country and its militia. Our State and Federal missions are accomplished by 88 flying wings and 1,600 support units located at 173 locations in all 50 states, 3 territories and the District of Columbia. The plant value of Air National Guard-managed real estate exceeds $12.6 billion with over 4,800 facilities comprising in excess of 32 million square feet. We partner with 67 civilian airports that provide access to an additional $4.4 billion in airfield infrastructure at a fraction of what it would cost us to own and operate it ourselves. These facilities support a Total Force capability that is unrivaled in the world today. While comprising roughly 34 percent of the Air Force’s mission capability, the Air National Guard specifically provides 100 percent of the Nation’s air defense and 45 percent of the theater airlift mission to name a few. In addition to high visibility missions like last year’s flight to the South Pole to rescue Dr. Gerri Nielsen, the Air Guard is a significant player in the Aerospace Expeditionary Force.
====**And, flexible rapid reaction of US airpower is crucial to deterring conflicts globally**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 98</span>** – [Zalmay Khalizad and Ian Lesser, Senior Analysts at RAND Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, 1998, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]]]
This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will of necessity be the primary instruments constituting the American response. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.
==== ==== 
====**US primacy is key to solve great power wars**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhang & Shi 11</span> - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Yuhan, a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. *** AND*** Lin, Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.
===Plan Text=== 
====**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in creating resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States.**==== 
===Contention 4: Solvency=== 
====**Plan solves**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz 10, </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|</span>
Interactions and relationships among geographical¶ regions and social sectors cannot be ignored. Drought¶ in the Southwest and/or increases in water and air temperatures¶ may reduce the efficiencies of power plants,¶ just when more power is needed for air conditioning.¶ Intense storms and floods can impact commerce, as they¶ did following Katrina and the great floods of 1993 on¶ the upper Mississippi River.¶ Conflicts inevitably arise between the needs of people¶ and the needs of the ecosystem in which they live,¶ and adaptation measures to manage the risks of climate¶ change must incorporate sound sustainability principles.¶ If we plan and act responsibly, we may be able to “have¶ our cake and eat it too.”¶ Sound Solutions for the 21st Century¶ Transportation System¶ We must not use the uncertainties and challenges¶ of adapting to climate change as an excuse for inaction.¶ The challenge to the engineering profession is¶ to take into account the inherent uncertainties of climate¶ science, as well as complex technological, social,¶ economic, and environmental interrelationships, and¶ develop sound solutions for transportation systems that¶ will serve us until the end of the century. A large body¶ of work has been done on making decisions on issues¶ that include great uncertainties. Scenario analyses, for¶ example, can provide “envelopes” of possible outcomes¶ (e.g., best case/worst case scenarios and respective probabilities).¶ To many, climate change is a distant worry, but developers¶ of transportation systems work on a time horizon¶ of 50 to 100 years for new and rehabilitated facilities.¶ Thus they have no choice but to take into account the¶ impacts of climate change. The marginal costs of accommodating¶ climate change impacts in major systems will¶ be dwarfed by the cost of retrofitting systems to meet¶ these same needs decades hence. To engineers, many¶ of the solutions for adaptation are fairly obvious—build¶ robust, resilient systems, protect or move existing assets,¶ and, when necessary, abandon indefensible facilities.¶ Some adaptations to climate change are listed¶ below:¶ Sea Level Rise¶ • Build or enhance levees and dikes to resist higher¶ sea levels and storm surges.¶ • Elevate critical infrastructure.¶ • Abandon or relocate coastal highways, rail lines,¶ and bridges.¶ • Provide good evacuation routes and operational¶ plans.¶ • Provide federal incentives to reduce the amount of¶ development in at-risk coastal regions.¶ Heat Waves¶ • Support research on new, more heat-resistant materials¶ for paving and bridge decks.¶ • Replace and/or reconstruct highway and bridge¶ expansion joints.¶ • Increase the length of airport runways to compensate¶ for lower air densities.¶ • Revisit standards for construction workers exposed¶ to high temperatures.¶ Increased Storm Intensity¶ • Revise hydrologic storm and flood frequency maps.¶ • Develop new design standards for hydraulic¶ structures.¶ • Reinforce at-risk structures, particularly to protect¶ against scouring of bridge piers.¶ • Encourage better land-use planning for flood plains.¶ Stronger Hurricanes¶ • Move critical infrastructure inland.¶ • Reinforce and/or build more robust, resilient¶ structures.¶ • Design for greater storm surges.¶ • Strengthen and elevate port facilities.¶ Arctic Warming¶ • Identify areas and infrastructure that will be damaged¶ by thawing permafrost.¶ • Develop new approaches to foundation design.¶ • Reinforce, protect, or move seaside villages.¶ Conclusions¶ We can continue to debate the validity of climate science,¶ but waiting for decades or longer for final “proof”¶ would be foolhardy at best. Fifty or 100 years from now¶ the impact of increasing emissions of GHGs will be¶ firmly established. If the projections of today’s climate¶ scientists are correct and we have failed to take both¶ mitigating and adaptive actions, then much damage will¶ already have been done.¶ The potential impacts of climate change on the built¶ environment and the implications for transportation¶ infrastructure are sufficiently well defined for us to take¶ action now. If this generation of engineers fails to act,¶ coastal highways and railroads will be under water,¶ bridges will be unusable, tunnels will be periodically¶ flooded, communities in the Midwest, Northeast, and¶ Southeast will be threatened by river flooding, people in¶ the Southwest will face increasing water shortages, and¶ entire villages along the North Slope of Alaska will be¶ swallowed by the sea.¶ However, if we incorporate climate change into the¶ regular planning processes for transportation and other¶ infrastructure, the marginal costs of building more robust,¶ resilient systems can be readily accommodated. And we¶ will have met our obligations to future generations.

====**Federal leadership key on adaptation policies**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al ‘10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted )// ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010 / £Shen**)**</span>

The Role of the Federal Government in Adapting to Climate Change¶ The Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation, but it is only one part of a broader effort that must include multiple levels of government and private and non-governmental partners throughout the country. In particular, Federal leadership, guidance, information, and support are vital to planning for and implementing adaptive actions. Because climate impacts span political boundaries, the Federal Government must respond in partnership with communities, Tribes, and states – many of which are already beginning to implement adaptation measures. Effective adaptation requires that stakeholders in affected regions coordinate their responses to climate impacts on shared infrastructure and resources.¶ At the core of the Federal Government’s role should be a commitment to promote and implement best practices for adaptation, build greater public awareness and understanding of the importance of adaptation, and maintain dialogue and partnerships¶ with stakeholders and decision makers. The Government should continue to enhance services that enable informed decisions based on the best available science, and to work with the international community to improve knowledge sharing and coordinate adaptation investments. The Government should also consider how Federal policies may lead to unintended consequences that increase the Nation’s vulnerability to climate risks, thus making adaptation more costly and difficult. For example, certain policies may lead to increased development in the very areas that climate risks would suggest people avoid.¶ The Federal Government also has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects a wide range of Federal services, operations, programs, assets (e.g., infrastructure, land), and our national security. The Government must exercise a leadership role to address climate impacts on Federal infrastructure interests and on natural, cultural, and historic resources that it has statutory responsibilities to protect. The Federal Government should identify its most significant adaptation risks and opportunities and incorporate response strategies into its planning to ensure that Federal resources are invested wisely and that its services and operations remain effective in the context of a changing climate. Importantly, the Federal Government must work in partnership with local, state, Tribal, and regional authorities as it develops and implements adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level.¶ The Federal Government has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects Federal lands, including National Parks and forests.¶
====**Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DEFRA ‘11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

The impact of climate change on infrastructure is an important economic, environmental and social issue, recognised by the Government’s National Infrastructure Plan 4. Recent impacts from flooding and severe weather highlight the risks infrastructure could face and the significant economic damage these types of events bring. Effective, reliable infrastructure underpins economic activity, and failure to adapt, increases the possibility of service disruption and adverse economic impacts. That is why Defra’s Business Plan 5 has a priority to support a strong and sustainable green economy resilient to climate change; adapting infrastructure forms a key part to realising this. To reduce the risk infrastructure faces from climate change planned, but flexible, adaptation actions are required. Therefore, it is about putting in place measures that enable the cost effective management of climate impacts to reduce the risk that climate change presents to infrastructure. This includes integrating the impacts of climate change into decision making for new infrastructure and maintenance of existing infrastructure. It is not about eliminating all risks from climate change or extreme weather. Potential Opportunities In a low carbon, climate resilient world, investment in climate resilient infrastructure will help enhance the attractiveness of the UK for inward investment, benefitting the economy, business and Government. Modelling by the OECD6 suggests that each £1 spent on climate change adaptation delivers four times its value in terms of potential damage avoided. Adapting infrastructure to climate change presents opportunities if early action is taken and expertise developed. This includes new skills and technologies as well as additional adaptation capacity to enable infrastructure to be adapted, such as new engineering practices or IT-based technology. All countries will need to increase their investment in their infrastructure to adjust to a more challenging climate. This is a potential opportunity; by developing adaptation expertise now, businesses should be well-placed to capitalise on opportunities in domestic and global markets. Potential economic opportunities • Development of new technologies and skills to be used domestically and exported. • Engineering and planning consultancy benefits, if we do this sooner and better than other countries, our engineering and consultancy organisations can be market leaders in adapting infrastructure. • Development of new ICT-based technologies to aid climate resilient infrastructure. • Investment and insurance sector can promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.
====**Resilience solves – multiple mechanisms**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al ‘12</span>** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

Most adaptation strategies aim to make infrastructure more durable or sustainable on a system level. Very few strategies attempt to use innovative construction materials, although that is the subject of continuing research. Adaptation approaches to climate change impacts need to be region-specific. Various areas will experience different climate change effects, over different timeframes, and have different levels of associated risk. Some adaptation approaches include extending timeframes of the planning and design analysis and retrofitting existing structures to increase their resilience. In many regions, land use policies may need to be revisited in order to restrict development in higher-risk areas. Planners must also consider the likely cost of feasible adaptation alternatives. Each alternative has an associated cost that must be considered in comparing response options and prioritizing among competing risks located elsewhere within the system. Finally, the planning process might need to be more flexible to allow different outcomes and design life of infrastructure to be evaluated to ensure alternatives and solutions fit the context of the project. There are three general adaptation alternatives (Parry et al., 2007):¶ 1. Avoidance – Planning new facilities or rerouting existing facilities outside of hazard areas. An example includes construction of a bypass around a landslideprone area.¶ 2. Protection – Improvements to existing facilities to increase their resilience or adaptive capacity to climate change impacts. Examples include increased height of sea walls, landslide fencing and monitoring, or bridge designs that are modified from current standards. Standards and criteria should be continually evaluated or modified based on the newest climate research.¶ 3. Abandonment – Abandonment or closure of a facility may be the most cost-effective solution if avoidance or protection alternatives are infeasible.¶ Examples include closure of landslide-prone segments. A fourth adaptation response could include operational responses such as ongoing maintenance and incident response (including temporary or seasonal closure and messaging services to the traveling public). This alternative would factor in the ongoing cost of repair and incident response based on the projected frequency of events. For vulnerabilities with minimal impact and/or low likelihood of occurrence, or for assets with short lifespan (e.g., pavement) this approach may be an optimal response (Kinsella, 2005). Examples include a planned detour route in response to periodic flooding of a roadway. The City of Portland has such a plan established (including sandbag locations) for the Johnson Creek area, which is known to flood periodically. In many cases, adaptation planning options are not unique to issues of climate change. For many agencies these are good business practices to emergency response, maintenance and asset management. Agencies need to integrate the issues, language and potential impacts of climate change into existing agency and business structures and practices.
====**Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ganapathy ‘11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCES</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Volume 2, No 2, 2011http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf)</span>

We are living in the age of disasters. The more we advance, the greater is the impact of each disaster on our society and the more it becomes necessary for us to build resilience into our communities and infrastructure. We cannot avert most disasters. We can, however, be prepared for them to minimize their impact and return to normalcy within the shortest possible time after a disaster with the help of as little external resources as possible. This is what a resilient society strives for. Transportation be it road, rail, air or water – is the lifeline of our society. Serious disruption to transportation infrastructure can have catastrophic impact on the ability of the community, business and economy to recover from a disaster. Hence it is of utmost importance for researchers to address the issue of building resilient transportation infrastructures. Today, more than three quarters of world trade by volume is carried on ships. Hence ports play a very critical role in the overall transportation infrastructure. If port activity is disrupted due to any reason, it will have a direct adverse impact on not only the other transportation functions but also the nation’s economy as a whole.This was amply demonstrated by the impact of the 1995 earthquake on Kobe port in Japan. Disasters know no boundaries. Disaster research too has no boundaries. The multidisciplinary nature of disaster research complicates holistic studies of disasters and also calls for awareness among researchers in diverse disciplines on current research trends across disciplines. To this end, we undertook a literature review in the critical area of disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports, which is not currently available.




====**Only federal leadership solves coordination**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith et al ’10</span>** (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>A Call for Federal Leadership” http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf)

While many adaptations will occur at the state and local levels, the federal government is a critical ¶ player in an effective and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation in the United States. The federal ¶ government is significant for four primary reasons discussed in more detail in a later section: it owns and manages ¶ a significant number of assets and natural resources; its programs affect the ability of others to adapt; it is an ¶ important provider of technical, fiscal, and other support; and it plays a crucial role in dealing with impacts that ¶ cross geographic or jurisdictional boundaries. ¶ Some municipalities, states, federal agencies, and others have already recognized the importance ¶ of addressing climate impacts by initiating climate adaptation plans, commissioning impact or vulnerability ¶ assessments, or enacting “no regrets” adaptation actions¶ 2¶ that improve their communities’ climate resilience. ¶ Such efforts are making initial strides in tackling adaptation needs, but a dedicated and appropriately focused ¶ national program is needed to address the multiple institutions, sectors, and levels of government involved in ¶ adaptation as well as the complexity, magnitude, and long time horizon of many climate impacts.

=Glenbrooks 1AC= 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 
====Climate change is __undoubtedly__ past the tipping point – majority of scientists agree adaptation is the way to go==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blaine 10/18</span> – [BDLive, News provider “Adaptation to climate change’ should be focus” 10/18/12 [[http://www.bdlive.co.za/national/science/2012/10/18/adaptation-to-climate-change-should-be-focus]] //NGopaul]
ATTEMPTS to control or curb the emission of greenhouse gases, linked by science to the overall rise in global temperatures, were "probably too late to arrest the inevitable trend of global warming", two scientists, one from South Africa’s University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), said in an opinion piece published in the peer review journal Nature Climate Change on Wednesday. Governments and institutions, especially in developing countries, should focus on adapting to climate change, instead of simply trying to limit or stop it, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned. The panel is an intergovernmental scientific intergovernmental body, set up in 1988 under the auspices of the United Nations at the request of member governments. The research was "very, very important", said Prof Mark Swilling, programme co-ordinator of the University of Stellenbosch School of Public Leadership’s Sustainable Development Programme. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) chief biodiversity and ecosystems services scientist Belinda Reyers said there was already a body of work that called for a stronger emphasis on adaptation. What was new in this article was the call to look at changes in non-living things such as mountains and glaciers. In South Africa this was important, for example, because projections were that the country would face longer droughts closing with episodes of more intense rainfall than previously experienced, she said. "This is very challenging for South Africa because we already have very poor soils. It will exacerbate siltation in dams ... and we should be considering how to manage that because it is very expensive to deal with," she said. Prof Swilling said the "key take home message" from the piece was that the global community’s failure to take the key decisions to mitigate climate change would cause global warming by more than 2°C and this would cause major changes, especially for the poor. "So we must now anticipate these changes and prepare. This is what adaptation is. But adaptation done properly is really about social justice, people-centred development and restoration of ecosystem services. We should be doing all this anyway, irrespective of whether it is needed for adaptation or not," he said. Wits geoscientist Jasper Knight and his co-author Dr Stephan Harrison, quaternary science professor at the UK’s University of Exeter, argued governments’ focus on the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon cap-and-trade schemes and renewable energy sources instead of on the monitoring, modeling and managing the impacts of climate change on the dynamics of Earth surface systems, such as glaciers, rivers, mountains and coasts was "a critical omission". "This is a critical omission, as Earth surface systems provide water and soil resources, sustain ecosystem services and strongly influence biogeochemical climate feedbacks in ways that are as yet uncertain," they wrote in the article, titled "The Impacts of climate change on terrestrial Earth surface systems". Dr Knight said mitigation strategies, such as building flood defences, were "seen as a more immediate quick fix solution" to issues of increased flood hazard than to come up with adaptation strategies, such as improved building codes or planning regulations, which were often seen as "longer-term solutions" that had less direct relevance. "In the short term mitigation is fine, but it doesn’t address long-term root causes," he said. Dr Reyers’ colleague, Bob Scholes, leader of the CSIR’s Natural Resources and the Environment Research Group, said until recently, adaptation was thought of as a "developing world issue", while mitigation was a "developed world issue".
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That disrupts all land-based transportation infrastructure</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">EPA ‘12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">--</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html>]</span>
Impacts on Roadways Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings and improved mobility from reduced snowfall and less-frequent winter storms since warmer winters may lead to reductions in snow and ice removal, as well as salting requirements. [1] [2]¶ Climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges. [1] [2]¶ Roadway damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Source: NASA (2005)¶ Exposure to flooding and extreme snow events also shortens the life expectancy of highways and roads. The stress of water and snow may cause damage, requiring more frequent maintenance, repairs, and rebuilding. Road infrastructure in coastal areas is particularly sensitive to more frequent and permanent flooding from sea level rise and storm surges. Approximately 60,000 miles of coastal roads in the United States are already exposed to flooding from coastal storms and high waves. Furthermore, major highways in coastal areas serve as critical evacuation routes. Evacuation routes must be protected from flooding and damage so they may be used for emergencies. [2] [3] In some locations, warmer temperatures are projected to cause more winter precipitation to fall as rain instead of snow. Winter flooding could occur more frequently, if the frozen ground cannot absorb precipitation. Landslides and wash-outs could also occur more frequently, as saturated soils are exposed to more rainwater. Drought in areas such as the Southwest could increase the likelihood of wildfires that reduce visibility and threaten roads and infrastructure. [1] [2] Impacts on Ice Roads Freezing temperatures are required for ice roads in Alaska. These are frozen routes used to connect northern communities, as well as the oil, gas, and mining industries. The tundra beneath these frozen roads is fragile, so transportation is limited to periods when the road is frozen. Warming temperatures would reduce the number of days ice roads are open, limiting transportation access to these areas. Impacts on Vehicles As temperatures increase, many types of vehicles can overheat, and tires will deteriorate more quickly. But milder winters, reductions in the number of cold days, delays in winter freezing, and earlier spring thaws may reduce cold-weather damage to vehicles. [1]Impacts on Railways Extreme heat can cause rails to buckle. Source: Volpe National Transportation Systems Center High temperatures cause rail tracks to expand and buckle. More frequent and severe heat waves may require track repairs or speed restrictions to avoid derailments. [1] Heavy precipitation could also lead to delays and disruption. For example, the June 2008 Midwest floods closed major east-west rail lines for several days. Tropical storms and hurricanes can also leave debris on railways, disrupting rail travel and freight transport. [1] [2] Like roadways, coastal railways and subways are subject to inundation from sea level rise and storm surges. This is particularly true in underground pathways and tunnels, which are often already below sea level. Increased flooding from heavy precipitation and storm surges could disrupt rail travel as well as freight operations. Damages from flooding may require rail lines and subway infrastructure to be rebuilt or raised in future expansion projects. [1] [2] Impacts on Air Transportation Infrastructure In addition to causing closures or delays, flooding may damage facilities, including airstrips. Some of the busiest airports in the United States are located in low-lying coastal areas, making them particularly vulnerable to inundation. For example, in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, many critical transportation infrastructure facilities (including Newark and LaGuardia airports) lie within the range of current and projected 50-year coastal storm surges. Many airstrips in Alaska are built on permafrost. Warmer temperatures would thaw permafrost and cause soils to settle, potentially damaging the foundation and structure of key infrastructure. Runways and airports may require rebuilding, relocation, or increased maintenance. [1] [2] Impacts on Ships and Sea Lanes¶ Ships are sensitive to many factors, including the depth of a channel and the extent of sea ice. Increasing temperatures could reduce the amount of sea ice in many important shipping lanes, extending the shipping season. Warmer winters will likely lead to less snow and ice accumulation on vessels, decks, and rigging in marine transportation. In the Arctic, warmer temperatures could also open up the possibility of a Northwest Passage, which could reduce shipping times and distances. However, these new passages may also provide a pathway for invasive species transport and survival. [1] [2]¶ Shipping lanes experiencing sea level rise will be able to accommodate larger ships, reducing shipping costs. However, higher sea levels will mean lower clearance under waterway bridges. In inland waterways where water levels are expected to decline, as in the Great Lakes, ships could face weight restrictions, as channels become too shallow. [1] [2]¶ Changes in precipitation can affect shipping in many ways. Flooding could close shipping channels, and increased runoff from extreme precipitation events could cause silt and debris to build up, leading to shallower channels. Changes in precipitation patterns could also affect the rate at which sediments accumulate, which may also make existing channels shallower and less accessible. In areas experiencing increasing drought, water levels could periodically decrease, limiting inland shipping on rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hurricane Sandy is an ominous reminder of the destructive powers of climate change—especially on coastal infrastructure</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Rosenzweig 11/5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Cynthia Rosenzweig is the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize award for her work on Climate Impact data  //BS in Agricultural Sciences @ Rugters, MS in Soils and Crops @ Rutgers, Ph.D. in Plant, Soil and Environmental Sciences @UMass Amherst; she is an American Climatologist @ NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies @ Columbia University; Co-Chair on the NYC Panel on Climate Change; Co-Leader of the East Coast Regional Assessment of the U.S. National Assesment of the Potential Consequences of Climate Variability; Lead Author of the IPCC Working Asessment Report; Member of the IPCC// //‘Superstorm Sandy and Sea Level Rise’// Published on November 5th, 2012 http://www.climatewatch.noaa.gov/article/2012/superstorm-sandy-and-sea-level-rise / £Shen)</span>

Why should New Yorkers care about sea level rise? First of all, sea level rise is a big issue for millions of people in the U.S., not just New Yorkers. Twenty-three of the 25 most densely populated U.S. counties are on the coast. In New York, the full brunt of Hurricane Sandy has shown how powerful and damaging the effects of coastal flooding can be for infrastructure and communities. The storm itself we can’t immediately link to climate change, but the flooding damage we can. As sea levels continue to rise, a storm of the same magnitude will cause even greater damages due to storm surges coming in on top of a higher “baseline” water level. What kind of sea level rise has New York Harbor seen over the past century? We’ve had roughly a foot of sea level rise in the New York City area in the past century. That’s measured at a tidal gauge near Battery Park just off the southern tip of Manhattan. The majority of the sea level rise in the New York City region is due to global warming: primarily, because of thermal expansion of ocean water as it warms and secondly, melting of land-based ice sheets. Land subsidence [sinking] in the New York City area has been roughly 3-4 inches per century, which is primarily due to the Earth’s crust rebounding from being compressed by massive ice sheets that covered Canada and the northern U.S. about 20,000 years ago near the end of the last Ice Age. Local variations in ocean surface elevation associated with the strength of the Gulf Stream has played a small role as well. How do sea level rise and storm surge interact? Sea level rise is like a set of stairs. The 12-inch increase in New York Harbor over the last century means we’ve already gone up one step. When a coastal storm occurs, the surge caused by the storm’s winds already has a step up, literally. For Sandy, that meant greater coastal flooding in New York and the surrounding region than we would have experienced a century ago. Continuing to climb the staircase of sea level rise means we’ll see greater extent and greater frequency of coastal flooding from storms, even if storms don’t get any stronger. How does sea level rise in New York Harbor compare to other parts of the U.S.? What about the global average? Sea level isn’t rising evenly throughout the world. On average, global sea level has risen about eight inches since 1880. So, the New York rate of sea level rise of nearly one foot is higher than the global average rate. In the U.S., rates of change vary. For example, Grand Isle, Louisiana near New Orleans has seen sea level increase by 23 inches since 1947 whereas Seattle, Washington, has only seen about six inches over that same period. Local factors such as land subsidence are primarily responsible for the differences. What’s the range of sea level rise we can expect to see in the future for the New York region? We’ve created two sets of sea level rise projections for the region by downscaling global climate models for local conditions. Using a similar approach to the last IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] report, we project 12-23 inches by the 2080s. We also developed a rapid-ice-melt scenario, based on the same greenhouse gas concentrations, but factoring in observations of accelerated ice sheet melt and paleoclimate data from ice cores, tree rings, and other sources. That projection gives a higher end of 41-55 inches in the 2080s. Why are there sets of ranges? Not only is there uncertainty about future rates of ice melt, there is also uncertainty about the pace of greenhouse gas emissions. There is also uncertainty in how the Earth’s climate system will respond to greenhouse gas forcings. We use sets of scenarios to cover these ranges. What infrastructure in New York is most threatened by sea level rise? What are some specific impacts? In 2001, I worked with colleagues at Columbia University, New York University, and NASA on a report called the Metropolitan East Coast Report: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://metroeast_climate.ciesin.columbia.edu/|Climate Change and a Global City,]]</span> which examined climate change impacts in New York. In that report, we identified flooding of the tunnels into and out of Manhattan, flooding of the subway, energy infrastructure, and inundation of coastal communities as key vulnerabilities. More recently, I’ve worked with colleagues to look at the telecommunications infrastructure, which hasn’t really been highlighted before. Hurricane Sandy exhibited all of these impacts. It’s important to note that these systems don’t act in isolation; they are incredibly interdependent. For example, when the power goes down then you can’t charge your cell phone. These interdependencies are compounding the impacts that people are experiencing in the New York region from Hurricane Sandy. What about social vulnerabilities? All of these infrastructure vulnerabilities feed directly into societal ones. In the New York region, many lower-income communities are located in the coastal flood zone. With Sandy, there has been tremendous damage across many of those communities. In addition, the elderly, the very young, and the ill are also highly vulnerable. It’s much harder for them to evacuate, which in turn puts them at greater risk to infrastructure failure. Just look at the challenges hospitals in Lower Manhattan faced when the back-up generators failed. Did Sandy reveal any previously unforeseen weaknesses? We’re going to be looking at the impacts of Hurricane Sandy very carefully. Many of the impacts that occurred have been included in previous studies, but we’re certainly going to go back and evaluate them so we can better inform planning around extreme weather and climate events. We can always learn more and continue to be better prepared. One thing we do want to look at is the fires that occurred in some of the coastal communities, and the gasoline shortages that persisted throughout parts of the region. What actions has the city undertaken to help infrastructure and residents deal with sea level rise and attendant impacts from storm surge prior to Sandy? Hurricane Sandy is a wake up call, no, a shout, that going forward we have to do more to prepare for these kinds of events. That said, the city has done a great deal to prepare. The city government has a flood evacuation plan, and they implemented it. The Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) had a plan to close the subway, and they did it early enough. The loss of life could have been much higher.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

In early January 2009, a severe winter storm hit the Pacific Northwest (PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars. Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, this weather event was not an isolated case. During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08 (WSDOT, 2008). While we must be careful to distinguish individual extreme weather events, such as those above, from long-term trends in climate, consensus in the scientific community projects an increased frequency and intensity of major storms, temperature increases, and changes in seasonal precipitation as a very likely outcome of global climate change. Patterns that today are considered “extreme” may instead become a new normal. This is a potentially very costly problem as our existing surface transportation system has been designed and constructed based upon historical climate trends. Assumptions that have been used historically to design facilities and respond to weather-related “emergencies” may no longer work. A transportation system built without planning for changing climate will likely experience a variety of costly impacts in terms of damage and traveler delay. Among these impacts are inundation of coastal roads from SLR; erosion of roadways and bridge supports from heavy precipitation and storms; increased road and rail maintenance due to flooding and temperature extremes; and travel delays due to weather events and more widespread wildfires. As a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (28 percent nationally), transportation was one of the early sectors to begin responding to the climate change threat, primarily through efforts to account for and reduce the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere (Center for Transportation and the Environment, 2008). Strategies involve a wide range of activities, including improvements in vehicle and fuel technologies, and land use planning and transportation operation improvements that reduce vehicle miles travelled and increase the overall efficiency of travel (Table 1). These activities are collectively referred to as climate mitigation (Cambridge Systematics, 2009). Recent studies indicate that climate change planning efforts conducted by governments have thus far overwhelmingly focused on mitigation strategies to reduce GHGs, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation (Wheeler, 2008).
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2: Economy</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Transportation is such an integral part of daily life in the United States that few pause to consider its importance. Yet the Nation’s strong intermodal network of highways, public transit, rail, marine, and aviation is central to our ability to work, go to school, enjoy leisure time, maintain our homes, and stay in touch with friends and family. U.S. businesses depend on reliable transportation services to receive materials and transport products to their customers; a robust transportation network is essential to the economy. In short, a sound transportation system is vital to the Nation’s social and economic future. Transportation professionals – including planners, designers, engineers, financial specialists, ecologists, safety experts, and others – work hard to ensure that U.S. communities have access to safe and dependable transportation services. Given the ongoing importance of the Nation’s transportation system, it is appropriate to consider what effect climate change may have on this essential network. Through a regional case study of the central Gulf Coast, this report begins to examine the potential implications of climate change on transportation infrastructure, operations, and services. Investments in transportation are substantial and result in infrastructure that lasts for decades. Transportation plans and designs should, therefore, be carefully considered and well informed by a range of factors, including consideration of climate variability and change. Climate also affects the safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure and systems. This research investigates the potential impacts of climate variability and change on transportation, and it assesses how planners and managers may incorporate this information into their decisions to ensure a reliable and robust future transportation network. This report does not contain recommendations about specific facilities or adaptation strategies, but rather seeks to contribute to the information available so that States and local communities can make more informed decisions when planning for the future.¶ The climate models used to estimate temperature changes agree that it will be warmer in the future. According to the IPCC report, global average warming is expected to be about 0.4°C (0.72°F) during the next 20 years. Even if the concentrations of all greenhouse gases and aerosols had been stabilized at 2000 levels, warming of 0.2°C (0.36°F) would be expected during this period (IPCC, 2007). Over the longer term, the IPCC models project average global temperature increases ranging from 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 6.4°C (11.5°F) by the end of the 21st century, although climate responses in specific regions will vary. These projections are the result of reviewing a robust set of global climate models under a variety of future scenarios – using a range of assumptions for future economic activity and energy use – for the Earth as a whole. The average increase in temperature may not be as important to the transportation community as the changes in extreme temperature, which also are expected to increase. Over the last 50 years, the frequency of cold days and nights has declined, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent. The number of days with temperature above 32°C (90°F) and 38°C (100°F) has been increasing since 1970, as has the intensity and length of periods of drought. The IPCC report finds that it is virtually certain that the next century will witness warmer and more frequent hot days and nights over most land areas (IPCC, 2007). Increasing temperatures have the potential to affect multiple modes of transportation, primarily impacting surface transportation. The transportation impacts mentioned most often in the literature included pavement damage; rail buckling; less lift and fuel efficiency for aircraft; and the implications of lower inland water levels, thawing permafrost, reduced ice cover on seaways, and an increase in vegetation. These are discussed in greater detail below:¶ • Pavement damage – The quality of highway pavement was identified as a potential issue for temperate climates, where more extreme summer temperatures and/or more frequent freeze/thaw cycles may be experienced. Extremely hot days, over an extended period of time, could lead to the rutting of highway pavement and the more rapid breakdown of asphalt seal binders, resulting in cracking, potholing, and bleeding. This, in turn, could damage the structural integrity of the road and/or cause the pavement to become more slippery when wet. Adaptation measures mentioned included more frequent maintenance, milling out ruts, and the laying of more heat resistant asphalt.¶ • Rail buckling – Railroads could encounter rail buckling more frequently in temperate climates that experience extremely hot temperatures. If unnoticed, rail buckling can result in derailment of trains. Peterson (2008) noted, “Lower speeds and shorter trains, to shorten braking distance, and lighter loads to reduce track stress are operational impacts.” Adaptation measures included better monitoring of rail temperatures and ultimately more maintenance of the track, replacing it when needed.¶ • Vegetation growth – The growing season for deciduous trees that shed their leaves may be extended, causing more slipperiness on railroads and roads and visual obstructions. Possible adaptation measures included better management of the leaf foliage and planting more low-maintenance vegetation along transportation corridors to act as buffers (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reductions in aircraft lift and efficiency – Higher temperatures would reduce air density, decreasing both lift and the engine efficiency of aircraft. As a result, longer runways and/or more powerful airplanes would be required. However, one analyst projected that technical advances would minimize the need for runway redesign as aircraft become more powerful and efficient (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reduced water levels – Changes in water levels were discussed in relation to marine transport. Inland waterways such as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River could experience lower water levels due to increased temperatures and evaporation; these lower water levels would mean that ships and barges would not be able to carry as much weight. Adaptation measures included reducing cargo loads, designing vessels to require less draft, or dredging the water body to make it deeper.¶ • Reduced ice cover – Reduced ice cover was generally considered a positive impact of increasing temperatures in the literature. For example, a study conducted by John D. Lindeberg and George M. Albercook, which was included in the Report of the Great Lakes Regional Assessment Group for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, stated, “the costs of additional dredging [due to lower water levels] could be partially mitigated by the benefits of additional shipping days on the [Great] Lakes caused by less persistent ice cover” (Sousounis, 2000, p. 41). Additionally, arctic sea passages could open; for example, the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment noted, “projected reductions in sea-ice extent are likely to improve access along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage” (Instanes et al., 2005, p. 934). However, negative environmental and security impacts also may result from reduced ice cover as well from as the increased level of shipping. These are discussed below in the subsection on indirect impacts (Section 1.3.6.).¶ • Thawing permafrost – The implications of thawing permafrost for Arctic infrastructure receive considerable attention in the literature. Permafrost is the foundation upon which much of the Arctic’s infrastructure is built. The literature consistently noted that as the permafrost thaws the infrastructure will become unstable – an effect being experienced today. Roads, railways, and airstrips are all vulnerable to the thawing of permafrost. Adaptation measures vary depending on the amount of permafrost that underlies any given piece of infrastructure. The literature suggested that some assets will only need rehabilitation, other assets will need to be relocated, and different construction methods will need to be used, including the possibility of installing cooling mechanisms. According to the Arctic Research Commission, “roads, railways, and airstrips placed on ice-rich continuous permafrost will generally require relocation to well-drained natural foundations or replacement with substantially different construction methods” (U.S. Arctic Research Commission Permafrost Task Force, 2003, p. 29).¶ • Other – Other impacts of increasing temperatures included a reduction in ice loads on structures (such as bridges and piers), which could eventually allow them to be designed for less stress, and a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">WTO et al ’09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>

As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected to become more widespread and to intensify. For example, even with small increases in average temperature, the type, frequency and intensity of extreme weather – such as hurricanes, typhoons, fl oods, droughts, and storms – are projected to increase. Th e distribution of these weather events, however, is expected to vary considerably among regions and countries, and impacts will depend to a large extent on the vulnerability of populations or ecosystems. Developing countries, and particularly the poorest and most marginalized populations within these countries, will generally be both the most adversely aff ected by the impacts of future climate change and the most vulnerable to its eff ects, because they are less able to adapt than developed countries and populations. In addition, climate change risks compound the other challenges which are already faced by these countries, including tackling poverty, improving health care, increasing food security and improving access to sources of energy. For instance, climate change is projected to lead to hundreds of millions of people having limited access to water supplies or facing inadequate water quality, which will, in turn, lead to greater health problems. Although the impacts of climate change are specifi c to location and to the level of development, most sectors of the global economy are expected to be affected and these impacts will often have implications for trade. For example, three trade-related areas are considered to be particularly vulnerable to climate change. Agriculture is considered to be one of the sectors most vulnerable to climate change, and also represents a key sector for international trade. In low-latitude regions, where most developing countries are located, reductions of about 5 to 10 per cent in the yields of major cereal crops are projected even in the case of small temperature increases of around 1° C. Although it is expected that local temperature increases of between 1° C and 3° C would have benefi cial impacts on agricultural outputs in mid- to high-latitude regions, warming beyond this range will most likely result in increasingly negative impacts for these regions also. According to some studies, crop yields in some African countries could fall by up to 50 per cent by 2020, with net revenues from crops falling by as much as 90 per cent by 2100. Depending on the location, agriculture will also be prone to water scarcity due to loss of glacial meltwater and reduced rainfall or droughts. Tourism is another industry that may be particularly vulnerable to climate change, for example, through changes in snow cover, coastal degradation and extreme weather. Both the fi sheries and forestry sectors also risk being adversely impacted by climate change. Likewise, ix Part IV Part III Part II Part I there are expected to be major impacts on coastal ecosystems, including the disappearance of coral and the loss of marine biodiversity. Finally, one of the clearest impacts will be on trade infrastructure and routes. The IPCC has identified port facilities, as well as buildings, roads, railways, airports and bridges, as being dangerously at risk of damage from rising sea levels and the increased occurrence of instances of extreme weather, such as fl ooding and hurricanes. Moreover, it is projected that changes in sea ice, particularly in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.
====Economic decline leads to war==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult [end page 213] to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. “Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. [end page 214] Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


====US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi ‘4</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>

The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider global objectives. Fighting terrorism, reducing poverty, improving health, integrating China and other countries in the global economy — all of these issues are linked, in one way or another, to world trade. This is not to say that trade is the answer to all America's economic concerns; only that meaningful solutions are inconceivable without it. The world trading system is the linchpin of today's global order — underpinning its security as well as its prosperity. A successful WTO is an example of how multilateralism can work. Conversely, if it weakens or fails, much else could fail with it. This is something which the US — at the epicentre of a more interdependent world — cannot afford to ignore. These priorities must continue to guide US policy — as they have done since the Second World War. America has been the main driving force behind eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations, including the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the WTO. The US — together with the EU — was instrumental in launching the latest Doha Round two years ago. Likewise, the recent initiative, spearheaded by Ambassador Zoellick, to re-energize the negotiations and move them towards a successful conclusion is yet another example of how essential the US is to the multilateral process — signalling that the US remains committed to further liberalization, that the Round is moving, and that other countries have a tangible reason to get on board. The reality is this: when the US leads the system can move forward; when it withdraws, the system drifts. The fact that US leadership is essential, does not mean it is easy. As WTO rules have expanded, so too has as the complexity of the issues the WTO deals with — everything from agriculture and accounting, to tariffs and telecommunication. The WTO is also exerting huge gravitational pull on countries to join — and participate actively — in the system. The WTO now has 146 Members — up from just 23 in 1947 — and this could easily rise to 170 or more within a decade. Emerging powers like China, Brazil, and India rightly demand a greater say in an institution in which they have a growing stake. So too do a rising number of voices outside the system as well. More and more people recognize that the WTO matters. More non-state actors — businesses, unions, environmentalists, development NGOs — want the multilateral system to reflect their causes and concerns. A decade ago, few people had even heard of the GATT. Today the WTO is front page news. A more visible WTO has inevitably become a more politicized WTO. The sound and fury surrounding the WTO's recent Ministerial Meeting in Cancun — let alone Seattle — underline how challenging managing the WTO can be. But these challenges can be exaggerated. They exist precisely because so many countries have embraced a common vision. Countries the world over have turned to open trade — and a rules-based system — as the key to their growth and development. They agreed to the Doha Round because they believed their interests lay in freer trade, stronger rules, a more effective WTO. Even in Cancun the great debate was whether the multilateral trading system was moving fast and far enough — not whether it should be rolled back. Indeed, it is critically important that we draw the right conclusions from Cancun — which are only now becoming clearer. The disappointment was that ministers were unable to reach agreement. The achievement was that they exposed the risks of failure, highlighted the need for North-South collaboration, and — after a period of introspection — acknowledged the inescapable logic of negotiation. Cancun showed that, if the challenges have increased, it is because the stakes are higher. The bigger challenge to American leadership comes from inside — not outside — the United States. In America's current debate about trade, jobs and globalization we have heard a lot about the costs of liberalization. We need to hear more about the opportunities. We need to be reminded of the advantages of America's openness and its trade with the world — about the economic growth tied to exports; the inflation-fighting role of imports, the innovative stimulus of global competition. We need to explain that freer trade works precisely because it involves positive change — better products, better job opportunities, better ways of doing things, better standards of living. While it is true that change can be threatening for people and societies, it is equally true that the vulnerable are not helped by resisting change — by putting up barriers and shutting out competition. They are helped by training, education, new and better opportunities that — with the right support policies — can flow from a globalized economy. The fact is that for every job in the US threatened by imports there is a growing number of high-paid, high skill jobs created by exports. Exports supported 7 million workers a decade ago; that number is approaching around 12 million today. And these new jobs — in aerospace, finance, information technology — pay 10 per cent more than the average American wage. We especially need to inject some clarity — and facts — into the current debate over the outsourcing of services jobs. Over the next decade, the US is projected to create an average of more than 2 million new services jobs a year — compared to roughly 200,000 services jobs that will be outsourced. I am well aware that this issue is the source of much anxiety in America today. Many Americans worry about the potential job losses that might arise from foreign competition in services sectors. But it’s worth remembering that concerns about the impact of foreign competition are not new. Many of the reservations people are expressing today are echoes of what we heard in the 1970s and 1980s. But people at that time didn’t fully appreciate the power of American ingenuity. Remarkable advances in technology and productivity laid the foundation for unprecedented job creation in the 1990s and there is no reason to doubt that this country, which has shown time and again such remarkable potential for competing in the global economy, will not soon embark again on such a burst of job-creation. America's openness to service-sector trade — combined with the high skills of its workforce — will lead to more growth, stronger industries, and a shift towards higher value-added, higher-paying employment. Conversely, closing the door to service trade is a strategy for killing jobs, not saving them. Americans have never run from a challenge and have never been defeatist in the face of strong competition. Part of this challenge is to create the conditions for global growth and job creation here and around the world. I believe Americans realize what is at stake. The process of opening to global trade can be disruptive, but they recognize that the US economy cannot grow and prosper any other way. They recognize the importance of finding global solutions to shared global problems. Besides, what is the alternative to the WTO? Some argue that the world's only superpower need not be tied down by the constraints of the multilateral system. They claim that US sovereignty is compromised by international rules, and that multilateral institutions limit rather than expand US influence. Americans should be deeply sceptical about these claims. Almost none of the trade issues facing the US today are any easier to solve unilaterally, bilaterally or regionally. The reality is probably just the opposite. What sense does it make — for example — to negotiate e-commerce rules bilaterally? Who would be interested in disciplining agricultural subsidies in a regional agreement but not globally? How can bilateral deals — even dozens of them — come close to matching the economic impact of agreeing to global free trade among 146 countries? Bilateral and regional deals can sometimes be a complement to the multilateral system, but they can never be a substitute. There is a bigger danger. By treating some countries preferentially, bilateral and regional deals exclude others — fragmenting global trade and distorting the world economy. Instead of liberalizing trade — and widening growth — they carve it up. Worse, they have a domino effect: bilateral deals inevitably beget more bilateral deals, as countries left outside are forced to seek their own preferential arrangements, or risk further marginalization. This is precisely what we see happening today. There are already over two hundred bilateral and regional agreements in existence, and each month we hear of a new or expanded deal. There is a basic contradiction in the assumption that bilateral approaches serve to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based system. Even when intended to spur free trade, they can ultimately risk undermining it. This is in no one's interest, least of all the United States. America led in the creation of the multilateral system after 1945 precisely to avoid a return to hostile blocs — blocs that had done so much to fuel interwar instability and conflict. America's vision, in the words of Cordell Hull, was that “enduring peace and the welfare of nations was indissolubly connected with the friendliness, fairness and freedom of world trade”. Trade would bind nations together, making another war unthinkable. Non-discriminatory rules would prevent a return to preferential deals and closed alliances. A network of multilateral initiatives and organizations — the Marshal Plan, the IMF, the World Bank, and the GATT, now the WTO — would provide the institutional bedrock for the international rule of law, not power. Underpinning all this was the idea that freedom — free trade, free democracies, the free exchange of ideas — was essential to peace and prosperity, a more just world. It is a vision that has emerged pre-eminent a half century later. Trade has expanded twenty-fold since 1950. Millions in Asia, Latin America, and Africa are being lifted out of poverty, and millions more have new hope for the future. All the great powers — the US, Europe, Japan, India, China and soon Russia — are part of a rules-based multilateral trading system, greatly increasing the chances for world prosperity and peace. There is a growing realization that — in our interdependent world — sovereignty is constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nuclear War</span>==== 
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Panzner 8</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 3 is Manufacturing</span>== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Manufacturing is on steep decline – new action is key</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Nash-Hoff 12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(“American Manufacturing Has Declined More Than Most Experts Have Thought,” 3/28/12 pg online @ [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michele-nashhoff/manufacturing-jobs_b_1382704.html]] //um-ef)</span>
A new report released by the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF) presents a strong case that manufacturing has declined more during the last decade than it did during the Great Depression of the 1930s. It's gratifying to finally see a well-respected non-partisan "think tank" release a report based on empirical data that corroborates what those of working in the manufacturing industry have experienced, about which I have been speaking and writing since 2003. One of the main points of the report is that during the Great Depression, we lost 30.9% of manufacturing jobs, but in the decade of 2000-2010, we lost 33.1% of manufacturing jobs. It becomes more serious when you realize that in the Great Depression, manufacturing accounted for 43% of jobs lost and 34% of all jobs at the time, but now manufacturing only represents about 11% of all jobs, but nearly one-third of the job loss. This percentage loss represents 5.7 million manufacturing jobs. The report states: "On average, 1,276 manufacturing jobs were lost every day for the past 12 years. A net of 66,486 manufacturing establishments closed, from 404,758 in 2000 down to 338,273 in 2011. In other words, on each day since the year 2000, America had, on average, 17 fewer manufacturing establishments than it had the previous day." When you understand the multiplier effect of manufacturing jobs, creating 2-3 supporting jobs, this loss of manufacturing jobs represents 11 to 17 million jobs. The report states, "In fact, in January 2012 there were more unemployed Americans (12.8 million) than there were Americans who worked in manufacturing (just under 12 million)." No wonder we have the high local, state, and federal deficits that we are experiencing -- there are fewer taxpayers and more benefit collectors. The two million manufacturing jobs we lost during the Great Recession was added to the over 3.7 million we had already lost. After the recession ended, the report states: "Just 166,000, or 8.2 percent, returned. That leaves 91.8 percent of jobs to be recovered. At the rate of growth in manufacturing jobs in 2011, it would take until at least 2020 for employment to return to where the economy was in terms of manufacturing jobs at the end of 2007. In reality... U.S. manufacturing has been in a state of structural decline due to loss of U.S. competitiveness, not temporary decline based on the business cycle." It's obvious that with unemployment at 8.3 percent, "all those jobs have not been recreated in other industries." If manufacturing declines further, there are no guarantees that other jobs will appear to replace those lost in manufacturing. The authors validate what I've written in my book and previous articles: "manufacturing jobs pay more; manufacturing is a source of good jobs for non-college-educated workers; and manufacturing is the key driver of innovation -- without manufacturing, non-manufacturing innovation jobs (for example, research and design) will not thrive." For years, most economists, experts, and government officials have said that the decline in manufacturing is a natural outcome of our transformation from an industrial society to a post-industrial society. "This decline is often cited by defenders as 'normal' and in line with what is happening in other countries. In this 'post-industrial' view, advanced nations are transitioning from factories to services; the greater and faster the loss of manufacturing, the more successful nations are in mastering the transition." The authors concede that there is: "Some truth to the post-industrialists' view. Advanced economies naturally see manufacturing jobs contribute to a smaller share of total employment, since manufacturing productivity is typically higher than non-manufacturing productivity. But normally the loss is modest and gradual, in contrast to the United States where in the last decade it was sudden and steep." In addition: "Advanced nations do lose some lower-value-added, lower-skill, commodity-based manufacturing to lower-wage nations. But ... they also increase their demand for the higher-value-added products that developed nations should naturally produce ... the process of global integration does not and should not naturally lead to the deindustrialization of developed economies, but rather to the transformation of their industrial bases toward more complex, higher-value-added production." These same experts have denied that manufacturing has been in decline, arguing that manufacturing became incredibly productive just like agriculture did a century earlier so that fewer workers are needed in the industry. The authors state that: "Virtually everyone makes the argument that massive manufacturing job decline is a sign of success: manufacturers are using technology to automate work and to become more efficient ... Manufacturing is like agriculture has been the dominant story. The United States produces more food than ever, but because farming has become so efficient, it requires a very small share of U.S. workers to grow and harvest the food. So while manufacturing productivity growth may be tough on workers, job loss is seen as a sign of strength, not weakness." It's true that job loss could be result of increased productivity, but what these experts have ignored is that manufacturing's share of the Gross Domestic Product (GD) declined from 15% in 2000 to 11.0% in 2009. While manufacturing has declined as a share of GDP in the United States and some other nations, such as Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom," it is stable or even growing in many others (including Austria, China, Finland, Germany, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, and Switzerland.)" The ITIF report dispels the myth that increased productivity is the reason for the job loss with a review of the productivity of various manufacturing industry sectors, showing that in 2010, "13 of the 19 manufacturing sectors (employing 55 percent of manufacturing workers) were producing less than they there were in 2000 in terms of inflation-adjusted output." In addition, the authors assert that "the government's official calculation of manufacturing output growth, and by definition productivity, is significantly overstated. "Correcting for biases in the official data, ITIF finds that from 2000 to 2010, U.S. manufacturing labor productivity growth was overstated by a remarkable 122 percent. Moreover, manufacturing output, instead of increasing at the reported 16 percent rate, in fact fell by 11 percent over the period." This was during a period when the U. S. GDP increased by 17 percent. Besides, the report states that: "It is not clear how productivity could be the culprit behind the large share of job loss in the 2000s when manufacturing labor productivity (as measured by the official value added data) was not substantially different in the 1990s than it was in the 2000s. During the 1990s, manufacturing jobs fell by one percent, while labor productivity increased by 53 percent. In the 2000s, manufacturing jobs fell by 33 percent while productivity increased by 66 percent ... the 2000s productivity number is actually significantly overstated, even more so than the 1990s figure. Adjusting for bias in the data, the actual productivity growth in the 2000s was just 32 percent." The authors provide evidence that: "There are serious problems with how the U.S. government measures manufacturing output that cause it to significantly overstate output and, by extension, productivity. In order to see how productivity and output are overstated, it is necessary to understand both concepts." Their explanation is too complicated to consider in this short article, but is well worth reading in the report. They conclude: "that there are substantial upward biases in the U.S. government's official statistics and that real manufacturing output and productivity growth is significantly overstated. The most serious bias relates to the computers and electronics industry (NAICS 334) -- its output is vastly overstated. Correcting for these statistical biases, we see that the base of U.S. manufacturing has eroded faster over the past decade than at any time since WWII, when the United States began compiling the statistics." I can substantiate this conclusion from my experience as a manufacturers' representative for American companies who perform fabrication services, such as plastic and rubber molding, metal stamping and casting, machining, and sheet metal fabrication for other American manufacturers. While many of the manufacturers in my sales territory of southern California may still be assembling their products in the U.S., many of the components and subassemblies they are using have been produced offshore. Obviously, it takes fewer American workers to produce the end product because part of the work was actually done by foreign workers.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, the plan’s investment is __critical__ to U.S. Manufacturing – props up dependent industries </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Hermann 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis//um-ef)</span>
ASCE commends the Joint Economic Committee for holding a hearing today on how surface transportation investment is a key factor for continued economic recovery and job creation. The Society is pleased to present to the Committee our views on investing in the nation's infrastructure and the critical link to U.S manufacturing. An agenda that fosters economic growth and job creation through policies that strengthen U.S. manufacturing and infrastructure will allow the nation to remain competitive in the Twenty-First Century. Infrastructure Receives a Grade of "D" ASCE's 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure graded the nation's infrastructure a "D" based on 15 categories (the same overall grade as ASCE's 2005 Report Card). The report also concluded that the nation needs to invest approximately $2.2 trillion from 2009 - 2014 to bring our nation's infrastructure to a state of good repair. This number, adjusted for a three percent rate of inflation, represents capital spending at all levels of government and includes current expenditures. Even with current and planned investments from federal, state, and local governments from 2009 - 2014, the "gap" between the overall need and actual spending will exceed $1 trillion by the end of the five-year period. In the Report Card, the nation's surface transportation system included roads receiving a grade of "D-," bridges receiving a grade of "C," and transit receiving a grade of "D". With nearly one-third of roads in poor or mediocre condition, a quarter of the nation's bridges either structurally deficient or functionally obsolete, and transit use increasing to its highest levels in 50 years, the nation's surface transportation system is in a state of critical decline. Additionally, to bring just these three surface transportation categories up to an acceptable condition would require a five-year investment of $1.2 trillion, according to ASCE estimates. If the nation continues to under- invest in infrastructure and ignores this backlog until systems fail, we will incur even greater costs. While Congress is in the process of developing a comprehensive multi-year surface transportation authorization bill, and as President Obama emphasizes the infrastructure investment needs for the nation, our roads, bridges, and transit systems continue on in a state of decline. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the total of all federal spending for infrastructure has steadily declined over the past 30 years. The results of years of under investment can be seen in traffic and airport congestion, unsafe bridges and dams, deteriorating roads, and aging drinking water and wastewater infrastructure. Infrastructure Investment = Jobs Money invested in essential public works can create jobs, provide for economic growth, and ensure public safety through a modern, well-engineered national infrastructure. The nation's transportation infrastructure system has an annual output of $120 billion in construction work and contributes $244 billion in total economic activity to the nation's gross domestic product (GDP). In addition to the overarching economic benefits, the Federal Highway Administration estimates that every $1 billion invested in the nation's highways supports 27,823 jobs, including 9,537 on-site construction jobs, 4,324 jobs in supplier industries, and 13,962 jobs throughout the rest of the economy. Standard and Poor's has stated that highway investment has been shown to stimulate the economy more than any other fiscal policy, with each invested dollar in highway construction generating $1.80 toward the gross domestic product in the short term, while Cambridge Systematics estimates that every dollar taxpayers invest in public transportation generates $6 in economic returns. The transportation industry's experience with the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 illustrated the strong job creation impact of dedicated transportation investment, with the $48 billion for transportation improvements in the legislation supporting tens of thousands of jobs in engineering, construction, and supporting industries. Infrastructure Investment = A Healthy Economy The job-creation potential of infrastructure investment is only one contributing factor of the interaction between surface transportation and the nation's ability to compete in the global marketplace. Equally important are the benefits to a region's long term growth and productivity. A significant challenge to this economic growth is increased congestion, which contributes to the deterioration of the nation's infrastructure. Therefore, the importance of freight movement and the impact of congestion on the nation's economy must be emphasized. ASCE is concerned with the increasing deterioration of America's infrastructure, reduced investment for the preservation and enhancement of our quality of life, and the threatened decline of U.S. competitiveness in the global marketplace. In response, ASCE has not only issued multiple Report Cards on the condition of infrastructure, but has also sought to advance policy solutions that provide for a clean and safe quality of life, as well as fuel economic growth. While taken for granted by most Americans, our infrastructure is the foundation on which the national economy depends. As the economy grows, we cannot only think in terms of repairing what we have, but of creating a modernized transportation system that addresses long-term needs. The current system was originally built in the 1950's and 1960's at a time when the country had different transportation needs and a smaller population. With an expanding population and a larger economy, the nation needs a transportation system that can keep pace. Unfortunately, due to the rapid growth of the country, highway and freight capacity failed to keep up. In July 2011, ASCE released an economic study that measures the potential impacts to the economy in 2020 and 2040 if the nation maintains current levels of surface transportation investments. The report is the first in a series of four reports that will focus on the correlation between the nation's infrastructure and the economy. Subsequent reports will detail the economic correlation to the nation's drinking and waste water systems, energy grid, and ports and airports. The first study, Failure to Act: the Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure, found that if investments in surface transportation are not made in conjunction with significant policy reforms, families will have a lower standard of living, businesses will be paying more and producing less, and our nation will lose ground in a global economy. The nation's deteriorating surface transportation will cost the American economy more than 876,000 jobs, and suppress the growth of the country's GDP by $897 billion in 2020.The study results estimate that more than 100,900 manufacturing jobs will be lost by 2020. Ultimately, Americans will also get paid less. While the economy will lose jobs overall, those who are able to find work will find their paychecks cut because of the ripple effects that will occur through the economy. In contrast, a study from the Alliance for American Manufacturing shows that roughly 18,000 new manufacturing jobs are created for every $1 billion in new infrastructure spending. These manufacturing jobs would be created in fabricated metals, concrete and cement, glass-rubber- plastics, steel, and wood product industries. Furthermore, the Alliance for American Manufacturing study shows that using American-made materials for these infrastructure projects yields a total of 77,000 additional jobs, based on a projected investment of $148 billion a year (including $93 billion of public investment). International Competitiveness Failure to Act also shows that failing infrastructure will drive the cost of doing business up by adding $430 billion to transportation costs in the next decade. Firms will spend more to ship goods, and the raw materials they buy will cost more due to increased transportation costs. Productivity costs will also fall, with businesses underperforming by $240 billion over the next decade; this in turn will drive up the costs of goods. As a result, U.S. exports will fall by $28 billion, including 79 of 93 tradable commodities. Ten sectors of the U.S. economy account for more than half of this unprecedented loss in export value - among them key manufacturing sectors like machinery, medical devices, and communications equipment. On the contrary, most of America's major economic competitors in Europe and Asia have already invested in and are reaping the benefits of improved competitiveness from their infrastructure systems. To illustrate further the correlation between transportation and a strong national economy, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in late 2010 released a transportation performance index that examines the overall contribution to economic growth from a well-performing transportation infrastructure. The index displays a decline in the nation's economic competitiveness due to a continued lack of investment in surface transportation systems on all levels. However, the results also indicate that a commitment to raising the performance of transportation infrastructure would provide long-term value for the U.S. economy. At this juncture, even Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner is underscoring the importance of investing in our nation's infrastructure and the value of export promotion for the competitiveness of U.S. businesses. On a recent trip to a North Carolina manufacturing plant, Secretary Geithner drew parallels between investment in infrastructure, jobs creation, and growth of the domestic manufacturing sector. While efforts such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 have provided some short term relief to a struggling engineering and construction sector, a sustained economic recovery, will remain difficult without a new multi-year surface transportation bill. Five Key Solutions As part of ASCE's 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure, ASCE identified five Key Solutions that illustrate an ambitious plan to maintain and improve the nation's infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Manufacturing is key to advanced manufacturing and R&D</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Lind 12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @ http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf //um-ef)</span>
Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the greatest contribution of manufacturing to the U.S. economy as a whole involves the disproportionate role of the manufacturing sector in R&D. The expansion in the global market for high-value-added services has allowed the U.S. to play to its strengths by expanding its trade surplus in services, many of them linked to manufacturing, including R&D, engineering, software production and finance. Of these services, by far the most important is R&D. The United States has long led the world in R&D. In 1981, U.S. gross domestic expenditure on R&D was more than three times as large as that of any other country in the world. And the U.S. still leads: in 2009, the most recent year for which there is available data, the United States spent more than 400 billion dollars. European countries spent just under 300 billion dollars combined, while China spent about 150 billion dollars.14 In the United States, private sector manufacturing is the largest source of R&D. The private sector itself accounts for 71 percent of total R&D in the United States, and although U.S. manufacturing accounts for only 11.7 percent of GDP in 2012, the manufacturing sector accounts for 70 percent of all R&D spending by the private sector in the U.S.15 And R&D and innovation are inextricably connected: a National Science Foundation survey found that 22 percent of manufacturers had introduced product innovations and the same percentage introduced process innovations in the period 2006-2008, while only 8 percent of nonmanufacturers reported innovations of either kind.16 Even as the manufacturing industry in the United States underwent major changes and suffered severe job losses during the last decade, R&D spending continued to follow a general upward growth path. A disproportionate share of workers involved in R&D are employed directly or indirectly by manufacturing companies; for example, the US manufacturing sector employs more than a third of U.S. engineers.17 This means that manufacturing provides much of the demand for the U.S. innovation ecosystem, supporting large numbers of scientists and engineers who might not find employment if R&D were offshored along with production. Why America Needs the Industrial Commons Manufacturing creates an industrial commons, which spurs growth in multiple sectors of the economy through linked industries. An “industrial commons” is a base of shared physical facilities and intangible knowledge shared by a number of firms. The term “commons” comes from communallyshared pastures or fields in premodern Britain. The industrial commons in particular in the manufacturing sector includes not only large companies but also small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which employ 41 percent of the American manufacturing workforce and account for 86 percent of all manufacturing establishments in the U.S. Suppliers of materials, component parts, tools, and more are all interconnected; most of the time, Harvard Business School professors Gary Pisano and Willy Shih point out, these linkages are geographic because of the ease of interaction and knowledge transfer between firms.18 Examples of industrial commons surrounding manufacturing are evident in the United States, including the I-85 corridor from Alabama to Virginia and upstate New York.19 Modern economic scholarship emphasizes the importance of geographic agglomeration effects and co-location synergies. 20 Manufacturers and researchers alike have long noted the symbiotic relationship that occurs when manufacturing and R&D are located near each other: the manufacturer benefits from the innovation, and the researchers are better positioned to understand where innovation can be found and to test new ideas. While some forms of knowledge can be easily recorded and transferred, much “know-how” in industry is tacit knowledge. This valuable tacit knowledge base can be damaged or destroyed by the erosion of geographic linkages, which in turn shrinks the pool of scientists and engineers in the national innovation ecosystem. If an advanced manufacturing core is not retained, then the economy stands to lose not only the manufacturing industry itself but also the geographic synergies of the industrial commons, including R&D. Some have warned that this is already the case: a growing share of R&D by U.S. multinational corporations is taking place outside of the United States.21 In particular, a number of large U.S. manufacturers have opened up or expanded R&D facilities in China over the last few years.22 Next Generation Manufacturing A dynamic manufacturing sector in the U.S. is as important as ever. But thanks to advanced manufacturing technology and technology-enabled integration of manufacturing and services, the very nature of manufacturing is changing, often in radical ways. What will the next generation of manufacturing look like? In 1942, the economist Joseph Schumpeter declared that “the process of creative destruction is the essential fact about capitalism.” By creative destruction, Schumpeter did not mean the rise and fall of firms competing in a technologically-static marketplace. He referred to a “process of industrial mutation— if I may use that biological term—that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating the new one.” He noted that “these revolutions are not strictly incessant; they occurred in discrete rushes that are separated from each other by spaces of comparative quiet. The process as a whole works incessantly, however, in the sense that there is always either revolution or absorption of the results of revolution.”23 As Schumpeter and others have observed, technological innovation tends to be clustered in bursts or waves, each dominated by one or a few transformative technologies that are sometimes called “general purpose technologies.” Among the most world-transforming general purpose technologies of recent centuries have been the steam engine, electricity, the internal combustion engine, and information technology.24 As epochal as these earlier technology-driven innovations in manufacturing processes and business models proved to be, they are rapidly being superseded by new technologydriven changes as part of the never-ending process of Schumpeterian industrial mutation. The latest wave of innovation in industrial technology has been termed “advanced manufacturing.” The National Science and Technology Council of the Executive Office of the President defines advanced manufacturing as “a family of activities that (a) depend on the use and coordination of information, automation, computation, software, sensing, and networking, and/or (b) make use of cutting edge materials and emerging capabilities enabled by the physical and biological sciences, for example, nanotechnology, chemistry, and biology. It involves both new ways to manufacture existing products and the manufacture of new products emerging from new advanced technologies.”25 Already computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) programs, combined with computer numerical control (CNC), allow precision manufacturing from complex designs, eliminating many wasteful trials and steps in finishing. CNC is now ubiquitous in the manufacturing sector and much of the employment growth occurring in the sector requires CNC skills or training. Information technology has allowed for enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other forms of enterprise software to connect parts of the production process (both between and within a firm), track systems, and limit waste when dealing with limited resources. Other areas in which advanced manufacturing will play a role in creating new products and sectors and changing current ones are: Supercomputing. America’s global leadership in technology depends in part on whether the U.S. can compete with Europe and Asia in the race to develop “exascale computing,” a massive augmentation of computer calculating power that has the potential to revolutionize predictive sci ences from meteorology to economics. According to the Advanced Scientific Computing Advisory Committee (ASCAC), “If the U.S. chooses to be a follower rather than a leader in exascale computing, we must be willing to cede leadership” in industries including aerospace, automobiles, energy, health care, novel material development, and information technology.26 Robotics: The long-delayed promise of robotics is coming closer to fulfillment. Google and other firms and research consortiums are testing robotic cars, and Nevada recently amended its laws to permit autonomous automobiles.27 Amazon is experimenting with the use of robots in its warehouses.28 Nanotechnology may permit manufacturing at extremely small scales including the molecular and atomic levels.29 Nanotechnology is also a key research component in the semiconductor indusmanutry, as government funding is sponsoring projects to create a “new switch” capable of supplanting current semiconductor technology.30 Photonics or optoelectronics, based on the conversion of information carried by electrons to photons and back, has potential applications in sectors as diverse as telecommunications, data storage, lighting and consumer electronics. Biomanufacturing is the use of biological processes or living organisms to create inorganic structures, as well as food, drugs and fuel. Researchers at MIT have genetically modified a virus that generates cobalt oxide nanowires for silicon chips.31 Innovative materials include artificial “metamaterials” with novel properties. Carbon nanotubes, for example, have a strength-to-weight ratio that no other material can match.32 Advanced manufacturing using these and other cuttingedge technologies is not only creating new products and new methods of production but is also transforming familiar products like automobiles. The rapid growth in electronic and software content in automobiles, in forms like GPS-based guidance systems, information and entertainment technology, anti-lock brakes and engine control systems, will continue. According to Ford, around 30 percent of the value of one of its automobiles is comprised by intellectual property, electronics and software. In the German automobile market, electronic content as a share of production costs is expected to rise from 20-30 percent in 2007 to 50 percent by 2020.33
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Independently, that innovation solves great power wars</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Taylor 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Mark, Professor of Political Science – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Politics of Technological Change: International Relations versus Domestic Institutions”, 4-1, http://www.scribd.com/doc/46554792/Taylor)</span>
Technological innovation is of central importance to the study of international relations (IR), affecting almost every aspect of the sub-field. 2 First and foremost, a nation’s technological capability has a significant effect on its economic growth, industrial might, and military prowess; therefore relative national technological capabilities necessarily influence the balance of power between states, and hence have a role in calculations of war and alliance formation. Second, technology and innovative capacity also determine a nation’s trade profile, affecting which products it will import and export, as well as where multinational corporations will base their production facilities. 3 Third, insofar as innovation-driven economic growth both attracts investment and produces surplus capital, a nation’s technological ability will also affect international financial flows and who has power over them. 4 Thus, in broad theoretical terms, technological change is important to the study of IR because of its overall implications for both the relative and absolute power of states. And if theory alone does not convince, then history also tells us that nations on the technological ascent generally experience a corresponding and dramatic change in their global stature and influence, such as Britain during the first industrial revolution, the United States and Germany during the second industrial revolution, and Japan during the twentieth century. 5 Conversely, great powers which fail to maintain their place at the technological frontier generally drift and fade from influence on international scene. 6 This is not to suggest that technological innovation alone determines international politics, but rather that shifts in both relative and absolute technological capability have a major impact on international relations, and therefore need to be better understood by IR scholars. Indeed, the importance of technological innovation to international relations is seldom disputed by IR theorists. Technology is rarely the sole or overriding causal variable in any given IR theory, but a broad overview of the major theoretical debates reveals the ubiquity of technological causality. For example, from Waltz to Posen, almost all Realists have a place for technology in their explanations of international politics. 7 At the very least, they describe it as an essential part of the distribution of material capabilities across nations, or an indirect source of military doctrine. And for some, like Gilpin quoted above, technology is the very cornerstone of great power domination, and its transfer the main vehicle by which war and change occur in world politics. 8 Jervis tells us that the balance of offensive and defensive military technology affects the incentives for war. 9 Walt agrees, arguing that technological change can alter a state’s aggregate power, and thereby affect both alliance formation and the international balance of threats. 10 Liberals are less directly concerned with technological change, but they must admit that by raising or lowering the costs of using force, technological progress affects the rational attractiveness of international cooperation and regimes. 11 Technology also lowers information & transactions costs and thus increases the applicability of international institutions, a cornerstone of Liberal IR theory. 12 And in fostering flows of trade, finance, and information, technological change can lead to Keohane’s interdependence 13 or Thomas Friedman et al’s globalization. 14 Meanwhile, over at the “third debate”, Constructivists cover the causal spectrum on the issue, from Katzenstein’s “cultural norms” which shape security concerns and thereby affect technological innovation; 15 to Wendt’s “stripped down technological determinism” in which technology inevitably drives nations to form a world state. 16 However most Constructivists seem to favor Wendt, arguing that new technology changes people’s identities within society, and sometimes even creates new cross-national constituencies, thereby affecting international politics. 17 Of course, Marxists tend to see technology as determining all social relations and the entire course of history, though they describe mankind’s major fault lines as running between economic classes rather than nation-states. 18 Finally, Buzan & Little remind us that without advances in the technologies of transportation, communication, production, and war, international systems would not exist in the first place
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Solves Deterrence </span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a. Manufacturing is key to tech necessary for deterrence</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">O’Hanlon et al 12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon]] //um-ef)</span>
The current wave of defense cuts is also different than past defense budget reductions in their likely industrial impact, as the U.S. defense industrial base is in a much different place than it was in the past. Defense industrial issues are too often viewed through the lens of jobs and pet projects to protect in congressional districts. But the overall health of the firms that supply the technologies our armed forces utilize does have national security resonance. Qualitative superiority in weaponry and other key military technology has become an essential element of American military power in the modern era—not only for winning wars but for deterring them. That requires world-class scientific and manufacturing capabilities—which in turn can also generate civilian and military export opportunities for the United States in a globalized marketplace.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">b. Advanced manufacturing technology will make war IMPOSSIBLE</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Paone 9 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Chuck, 66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force, 8-10-09, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)</span>
The convergence of "exponentially advancing technologies" will form a "super-intelligence" so formidable that it could avert war, according to one of the world's leading futurists. Dr. James Canton, CEO and chairman of the Institute for Global Futures, a San Francisco-based think tank, is author of the book "The Extreme Future" and an adviser to leading companies, the military and other government agencies. He is consistently listed among the world's leading speakers and has presented to diverse audiences around the globe. He will address the Air Force Command and Control Intelligence, Survelliance and Reconnaissance Symposium, which will be held Sept. 28 through 30 at the MGM Grand Hotel at Foxwoods in Ledyard, Conn., joining Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norton Schwartz and a bevy of other government and industry speakers. He offered a sneak preview of his symposium presentation and answered various questions about the future of technology and warfare in early August. "The superiority of convergent technologies will prevent war," Doctor Canton said, claiming their power would present an overwhelming deterrent to potential adversaries. While saying that the U.S. will build these super systems faster and better than other nations, he acknowledged that a new arms race is already under way. "It will be a new MAD for the 21st century," he said, referring to the Cold War-era acronym for Mutually Assured Destruction, the idea that a nuclear first strike would trigger an equally deadly response. It's commonly held that this knowledge has essentially prevented any rational state from launching a nuclear attack. Likewise, Doctor Canton said he believes rational nation states, considering this imminent technology explosion, will see the futility of nation-on-nation warfare in the near future. Plus there's the "socio-economic linking of the global market system." "The fundamental macroeconomics on the planet favor peace, security, capitalism and prosperity," he said. Doctor Canton projects that nations, including those not currently allied, will work together in using these smart technologies to prevent non-state actors from engaging in disruptive and deadly acts. As a futurist, Doctor Canton and his team study and predict many things, but their main area of expertise -- and the one in which he's personally most interested -- is advanced and emerging technology. "I see that as the key catalyst of strategic change on the planet, and it will be for the next 100 years," he said. He focuses on six specific technology areas: "nano, bio, IT, neuro, quantum and robotics;" those he expects to converge in so powerful a way. Within the information technology arena, Doctor Canton said systems must create "meaningful data," which can be validated and acted upon. "Knowledge engineering for the analyst and the warfighter is a critical competency that we need to get our arms around," he said. "Having an avalanche of data is not going to be helpful." Having the right data is. "There's no way for the human operator to look at an infinite number of data streams and extract meaning," he said. "The question then is: How do we augment the human user with advanced artificial intelligence, better software presentation and better visual frameworks, to create a system that is situationally aware and can provide decision options for the human operator, faster than the human being can?" He said he believes the answers can often be found already in what he calls 'edge cultures.' "I would look outside of the military. What are they doing in video games? What are they doing in healthcare? What about the financial industry?" Doctor Canton said he believes that more sophisticated artificial intelligence applications will transform business, warfare and life in general. Many of these are already embedded in systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan Text</span>== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should adapt transportation infrastructure to climate change in the United States.</span>==== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 4: Solvency </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan solves</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz 10, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|</span>
Interactions and relationships among geographical¶ regions and social sectors cannot be ignored. Drought¶ in the Southwest and/or increases in water and air temperatures¶ may reduce the efficiencies of power plants,¶ just when more power is needed for air conditioning.¶ Intense storms and floods can impact commerce, as they¶ did following Katrina and the great floods of 1993 on¶ the upper Mississippi River.¶ Conflicts inevitably arise between the needs of people¶ and the needs of the ecosystem in which they live,¶ and adaptation measures to manage the risks of climate¶ change must incorporate sound sustainability principles.¶ If we plan and act responsibly, we may be able to “have¶ our cake and eat it too.”¶ Sound Solutions for the 21st Century¶ Transportation System¶ We must not use the uncertainties and challenges¶ of adapting to climate change as an excuse for inaction.¶ The challenge to the engineering profession is¶ to take into account the inherent uncertainties of climate¶ science, as well as complex technological, social,¶ economic, and environmental interrelationships, and¶ develop sound solutions for transportation systems that¶ will serve us until the end of the century. A large body¶ of work has been done on making decisions on issues¶ that include great uncertainties. Scenario analyses, for¶ example, can provide “envelopes” of possible outcomes¶ (e.g., best case/worst case scenarios and respective probabilities).¶ To many, climate change is a distant worry, but developers¶ of transportation systems work on a time horizon¶ of 50 to 100 years for new and rehabilitated facilities.¶ Thus they have no choice but to take into account the¶ impacts of climate change. The marginal costs of accommodating¶ climate change impacts in major systems will¶ be dwarfed by the cost of retrofitting systems to meet¶ these same needs decades hence. To engineers, many¶ of the solutions for adaptation are fairly obvious—build¶ robust, resilient systems, protect or move existing assets,¶ and, when necessary, abandon indefensible facilities.¶ Some adaptations to climate change are listed¶ below:¶ Sea Level Rise¶ • Build or enhance levees and dikes to resist higher¶ sea levels and storm surges.¶ • Elevate critical infrastructure.¶ • Abandon or relocate coastal highways, rail lines,¶ and bridges.¶ • Provide good evacuation routes and operational¶ plans.¶ • Provide federal incentives to reduce the amount of¶ development in at-risk coastal regions.¶ Heat Waves¶ • Support research on new, more heat-resistant materials¶ for paving and bridge decks.¶ • Replace and/or reconstruct highway and bridge¶ expansion joints.¶ • Increase the length of airport runways to compensate¶ for lower air densities.¶ • Revisit standards for construction workers exposed¶ to high temperatures.¶ Increased Storm Intensity¶ • Revise hydrologic storm and flood frequency maps.¶ • Develop new design standards for hydraulic¶ structures.¶ • Reinforce at-risk structures, particularly to protect¶ against scouring of bridge piers.¶ • Encourage better land-use planning for flood plains.¶ Stronger Hurricanes¶ • Move critical infrastructure inland.¶ • Reinforce and/or build more robust, resilient¶ structures.¶ • Design for greater storm surges.¶ • Strengthen and elevate port facilities.¶ Arctic Warming¶ • Identify areas and infrastructure that will be damaged¶ by thawing permafrost.¶ • Develop new approaches to foundation design.¶ • Reinforce, protect, or move seaside villages.¶ Conclusions¶ We can continue to debate the validity of climate science,¶ but waiting for decades or longer for final “proof”¶ would be foolhardy at best. Fifty or 100 years from now¶ the impact of increasing emissions of GHGs will be¶ firmly established. If the projections of today’s climate¶ scientists are correct and we have failed to take both¶ mitigating and adaptive actions, then much damage will¶ already have been done.¶ The potential impacts of climate change on the built¶ environment and the implications for transportation¶ infrastructure are sufficiently well defined for us to take¶ action now. If this generation of engineers fails to act,¶ coastal highways and railroads will be under water,¶ bridges will be unusable, tunnels will be periodically¶ flooded, communities in the Midwest, Northeast, and¶ Southeast will be threatened by river flooding, people in¶ the Southwest will face increasing water shortages, and¶ entire villages along the North Slope of Alaska will be¶ swallowed by the sea.¶ However, if we incorporate climate change into the¶ regular planning processes for transportation and other¶ infrastructure, the marginal costs of building more robust,¶ resilient systems can be readily accommodated. And we¶ will have met our obligations to future generations.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal leadership key on adaptation policies</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al ‘10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator  //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard//  Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin  //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change//  Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation  //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy//  Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP  //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted )// ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010 **)**</span>

The Role of the Federal Government in Adapting to Climate Change¶ The Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation, but it is only one part of a broader effort that must include multiple levels of government and private and non-governmental partners throughout the country. In particular, Federal leadership, guidance, information, and support are vital to planning for and implementing adaptive actions. Because climate impacts span political boundaries, the Federal Government must respond in partnership with communities, Tribes, and states – many of which are already beginning to implement adaptation measures. Effective adaptation requires that stakeholders in affected regions coordinate their responses to climate impacts on shared infrastructure and resources.¶ At the core of the Federal Government’s role should be a commitment to promote and implement best practices for adaptation, build greater public awareness and understanding of the importance of adaptation, and maintain dialogue and partnerships¶ with stakeholders and decision makers. The Government should continue to enhance services that enable informed decisions based on the best available science, and to work with the international community to improve knowledge sharing and coordinate adaptation investments. The Government should also consider how Federal policies may lead to unintended consequences that increase the Nation’s vulnerability to climate risks, thus making adaptation more costly and difficult. For example, certain policies may lead to increased development in the very areas that climate risks would suggest people avoid.¶ The Federal Government also has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects a wide range of Federal services, operations, programs, assets (e.g., infrastructure, land), and our national security. The Government must exercise a leadership role to address climate impacts on Federal infrastructure interests and on natural, cultural, and historic resources that it has statutory responsibilities to protect. The Federal Government should identify its most significant adaptation risks and opportunities and incorporate response strategies into its planning to ensure that Federal resources are invested wisely and that its services and operations remain effective in the context of a changing climate. Importantly, the Federal Government must work in partnership with local, state, Tribal, and regional authorities as it develops and implements adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level.¶ The Federal Government has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects Federal lands, including National Parks and forests.¶
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">DEFRA ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

The impact of climate change on infrastructure is an important economic, environmental and social issue, recognised by the Government’s National Infrastructure Plan 4. Recent impacts from flooding and severe weather highlight the risks infrastructure could face and the significant economic damage these types of events bring. Effective, reliable infrastructure underpins economic activity, and failure to adapt, increases the possibility of service disruption and adverse economic impacts. That is why Defra’s Business Plan 5 has a priority to support a strong and sustainable green economy resilient to climate change; adapting infrastructure forms a key part to realising this. To reduce the risk infrastructure faces from climate change planned, but flexible, adaptation actions are required. Therefore, it is about putting in place measures that enable the cost effective management of climate impacts to reduce the risk that climate change presents to infrastructure. This includes integrating the impacts of climate change into decision making for new infrastructure and maintenance of existing infrastructure. It is not about eliminating all risks from climate change or extreme weather. Potential Opportunities In a low carbon, climate resilient world, investment in climate resilient infrastructure will help enhance the attractiveness of the UK for inward investment, benefitting the economy, business and Government. Modelling by the OECD6 suggests that each £1 spent on climate change adaptation delivers four times its value in terms of potential damage avoided. Adapting infrastructure to climate change presents opportunities if early action is taken and expertise developed. This includes new skills and technologies as well as additional adaptation capacity to enable infrastructure to be adapted, such as new engineering practices or IT-based technology. All countries will need to increase their investment in their infrastructure to adjust to a more challenging climate. This is a potential opportunity; by developing adaptation expertise now, businesses should be well-placed to capitalise on opportunities in domestic and global markets. Potential economic opportunities • Development of new technologies and skills to be used domestically and exported. • Engineering and planning consultancy benefits, if we do this sooner and better than other countries, our engineering and consultancy organisations can be market leaders in adapting infrastructure. • Development of new ICT-based technologies to aid climate resilient infrastructure. • Investment and insurance sector can promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Resilience solves – multiple mechanisms</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al ‘12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

Most adaptation strategies aim to make infrastructure more durable or sustainable on a system level. Very few strategies attempt to use innovative construction materials, although that is the subject of continuing research. Adaptation approaches to climate change impacts need to be region-specific. Various areas will experience different climate change effects, over different timeframes, and have different levels of associated risk. Some adaptation approaches include extending timeframes of the planning and design analysis and retrofitting existing structures to increase their resilience. In many regions, land use policies may need to be revisited in order to restrict development in higher-risk areas. Planners must also consider the likely cost of feasible adaptation alternatives. Each alternative has an associated cost that must be considered in comparing response options and prioritizing among competing risks located elsewhere within the system. Finally, the planning process might need to be more flexible to allow different outcomes and design life of infrastructure to be evaluated to ensure alternatives and solutions fit the context of the project. There are three general adaptation alternatives (Parry et al., 2007):¶ 1. Avoidance – Planning new facilities or rerouting existing facilities outside of hazard areas. An example includes construction of a bypass around a landslideprone area.¶ 2. Protection – Improvements to existing facilities to increase their resilience or adaptive capacity to climate change impacts. Examples include increased height of sea walls, landslide fencing and monitoring, or bridge designs that are modified from current standards. Standards and criteria should be continually evaluated or modified based on the newest climate research.¶ 3. Abandonment – Abandonment or closure of a facility may be the most cost-effective solution if avoidance or protection alternatives are infeasible.¶ Examples include closure of landslide-prone segments. A fourth adaptation response could include operational responses such as ongoing maintenance and incident response (including temporary or seasonal closure and messaging services to the traveling public). This alternative would factor in the ongoing cost of repair and incident response based on the projected frequency of events. For vulnerabilities with minimal impact and/or low likelihood of occurrence, or for assets with short lifespan (e.g., pavement) this approach may be an optimal response (Kinsella, 2005). Examples include a planned detour route in response to periodic flooding of a roadway. The City of Portland has such a plan established (including sandbag locations) for the Johnson Creek area, which is known to flood periodically. In many cases, adaptation planning options are not unique to issues of climate change. For many agencies these are good business practices to emergency response, maintenance and asset management. Agencies need to integrate the issues, language and potential impacts of climate change into existing agency and business structures and practices.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Ganapathy ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCES</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Volume 2, No 2, 2011http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf)</span>

We are living in the age of disasters. The more we advance, the greater is the impact of each disaster on our society and the more it becomes necessary for us to build resilience into our communities and infrastructure. We cannot avert most disasters. We can, however, be prepared for them to minimize their impact and return to normalcy within the shortest possible time after a disaster with the help of as little external resources as possible. This is what a resilient society strives for. Transportation be it road, rail, air or water – is the lifeline of our society. Serious disruption to transportation infrastructure can have catastrophic impact on the ability of the community, business and economy to recover from a disaster. Hence it is of utmost importance for researchers to address the issue of building resilient transportation infrastructures. Today, more than three quarters of world trade by volume is carried on ships. Hence ports play a very critical role in the overall transportation infrastructure. If port activity is disrupted due to any reason, it will have a direct adverse impact on not only the other transportation functions but also the nation’s economy as a whole.This was amply demonstrated by the impact of the 1995 earthquake on Kobe port in Japan. Disasters know no boundaries. Disaster research too has no boundaries. The multidisciplinary nature of disaster research complicates holistic studies of disasters and also calls for awareness among researchers in diverse disciplines on current research trends across disciplines. To this end, we undertook a literature review in the critical area of disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports, which is not currently available.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only federal leadership solves coordination </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Smith et al ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A Call for Federal Leadership” http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf)</span>

While many adaptations will occur at the state and local levels, the federal government is a critical ¶ player in an effective and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation in the United States. The federal ¶ government is significant for four primary reasons discussed in more detail in a later section: it owns and manages ¶ a significant number of assets and natural resources; its programs affect the ability of others to adapt; it is an ¶ important provider of technical, fiscal, and other support; and it plays a crucial role in dealing with impacts that ¶ cross geographic or jurisdictional boundaries. ¶ Some municipalities, states, federal agencies, and others have already recognized the importance ¶ of addressing climate impacts by initiating climate adaptation plans, commissioning impact or vulnerability ¶ assessments, or enacting “no regrets” adaptation actions¶ 2¶ that improve their communities’ climate resilience. ¶ Such efforts are making initial strides in tackling adaptation needs, but a dedicated and appropriately focused ¶ national program is needed to address the multiple institutions, sectors, and levels of government involved in ¶ adaptation as well as the complexity, magnitude, and long time horizon of many climate impacts.

=2AC Blocks= 

=2AC Race (blame arran xu)= 

====**Perm do both**==== 
====**Framework – Action oriented civic participation requires youth education about transportation policy—**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomas, ’08</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]</span>

Education is essential to the development of engaged ¶ citizens (O’Neill 2007). Educating young people is ¶ crucial to their participation: it provides the skills and ¶ knowledge that allow them to navigate complex political processes, access the social networks that anchor ¶ them in the political system, and develop interest in ¶ engaging political issues. CPRN’s youth workshop ¶ on civic and political participation revealed a desire ¶ for early civics education, integrated throughout the ¶ curriculum (CPRN 2007).¶ Several participatory action research (PAR) ¶ projects have addressed youth and transportation. ¶ Generally, these projects have the goal of educating ¶ young people on sustainable transportation and the ¶ larger planning process, but their secondary goal is ¶ empowerment. They teach young people research ¶ skills and encourage them to inform and motivate ¶ their peers. Again, these cannot be classed as either ¶ civic or insurgent political participation, since they ¶ contain elements of both. While only one of these ¶ examples is Canadian, the others illustrate the possibilities of combining education and action-oriented ¶ participation.

====**Policy analysis should precede discourse – most effective way to challenge power**==== 

Jill <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taft-Kaufman</span>, Speech prof @ CMU, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span>, Southern Comm. Journal, Spring, v. 60, Iss. 3, “Other Ways”, p pq

The postmodern passwords of "polyvocality," "Otherness," and "difference," unsupported by substantial analysis of the concrete contexts of subjects, creates a solipsistic quagmire. The political sympathies of the new cultural critics, with their ostensible concern for the lack of power experienced by marginalized people, aligns them with the political left. Yet, despite their adversarial posture and talk of opposition, their discourses on intertextuality and inter-referentiality isolate them from and ignore the conditions that have produced leftist politics--conflict, racism, poverty, and injustice. In short, as Clarke (1991) asserts, postmodern emphasis on new subjects conceals the old subjects, those who have limited access to good jobs, food, housing, health care, and transportation, as well as to the media that depict them. Merod (1987) decries this situation as one which leaves no vision, will, or commitment to activism. He notes that academic lip service to the oppositional is underscored by the absence of focused collective or politically active intellectual communities. Provoked by the academic manifestations of this problem Di Leonardo (1990) echoes Merod and laments: Has there ever been a historical era characterized by as little radical analysis or activism and as much radical-chic writing as ours? Maundering on about Otherness: phallocentrism or Eurocentric tropes has become a lazy academic substitute for actual engagement with the detailed histories and contemporary realities of Western racial minorities, white women, or any Third World population. (p. 530) Clarke's assessment of the postmodern elevation of language to the "sine qua non" of critical discussion is an even stronger indictment against the trend. Clarke examines Lyotard's (1984) The Postmodern Condition in which Lyotard maintains that virtually all social relations are linguistic, and, therefore, it is through the coercion that threatens speech that we enter the "realm of terror" and society falls apart. To this assertion, Clarke replies: I can think of few more striking indicators of the political and intellectual impoverishment of a view of society that can only recognize the discursive. If the worst terror we can envisage is the threat not to be allowed to speak, we are appallingly ignorant of terror in its elaborate contemporary forms. It may be the intellectual's conception of terror (what else do we do but speak?), but its projection onto the rest of the world would be calamitous....(pp. 2-27) The realm of the discursive is derived from the requisites for human life, which are in the physical world, rather than in a world of ideas or symbols.(4) Nutrition, shelter, and protection are basic human needs that require collective activity for their fulfillment. Postmodern emphasis on the discursive without an accompanying analysis of how the discursive emerges from material circumstances hides the complex task of envisioning and working towards concrete social goals (Merod, 1987). Although the material conditions that create the situation of marginality escape the purview of the postmodernist, the situation and its consequences are not overlooked by scholars from marginalized groups. Robinson (1990) for example, argues that "the justice that working people deserve is economic, not just textual" (p. 571). Lopez (1992) states that "the starting point for organizing the program content of education or political action must be the present existential, concrete situation" (p. 299). West (1988) asserts that borrowing French post-structuralist discourses about "Otherness" blinds us to realities of American difference going on in front of us (p. 170). Unlike postmodern "textual radicals" who Rabinow (1986) acknowledges are "fuzzy about power and the realities of socioeconomic constraints" (p. 255), most writers from marginalized groups are clear about how discourse interweaves with the concrete circumstances that create lived experience. People whose lives form the material for postmodern counter-hegemonic discourse do not share the optimism over the new recognition of their discursive subjectivities, because such an acknowledgment does not address sufficiently their collective historical and current struggles against racism, sexism, homophobia, and economic injustice. They do not appreciate being told they are living in a world in which there are no more real subjects. Ideas have consequences. Emphasizing the discursive self when a person is hungry and homeless represents both a cultural and humane failure. The need to look beyond texts to the perception and attainment of concrete social goals keeps writers from marginalized groups ever-mindful of the specifics of how power works through political agendas, institutions, agencies, and the budgets that fuel them.
**Inclusion of pragmatic, reformist coalitions is the only way to make radical critiques of white supremacy politically effective-the alt alone fails and generates backlash**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winant</span> prof. of Sociology and Director of the Center for New racial Studies at UC Santa Barbara, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">in ‘97</span>
[Howard, September-October 1997, “Behind Blue Eyes: Contemporary White Racial Politics,” online: http://www.soc.ucsb.edu/faculty/winant/whitness.html]
Although the differences and indeed the hostility -- between the neoliberal and abolitionist projects, between the reform-oriented and radical conceptions of whiteness -- are quite severe, we consider it vital that adherents of each project recognize that they hold part of the key to challenging white supremacy in the contemporary US, and that their counterpart project holds the other part of the key. Neoliberals rightfully argue that a pragmatic approach to transracial politics is vital if the momentum of racial reaction is to be halted or reversed. Abolitionists properly emphasize challenging the ongoing commitment to white supremacy on the part of many whites. Both of these positions need to draw on each other, not only in strategic terms, but in theoretical ones as well. The recognition that racial identities -- all racial identities, including whiteness -- have become implacably dualistic, could be far more liberating on the left than it has thus far been. For neoliberals, it could permit and indeed justify an acceptance of race-consciousness and even nationalism among racially-defined minorities as a necessary but partial response to disenfranchisement, disempowerment, and superexploitation. There is no inherent reason why such a political position could not coexist with a strategic awareness of the need for strong, class-conscious, transracial coalitions. We have seen many such examples in the past: in the anti-slavery movement, the communist movement of the 1930s (Kelley 1994), and in the 1988 presidential bid of Jesse Jackson, to name but a few. This is not to say that all would be peace and harmony if such alliances could come more permanently into being. But there is no excuse for not attempting to find the pragmatic "common ground" necessary to create them. Abolitionists could also benefit from a recognition that on a pragmatic basis, whites can ally with racially-defined minorities without renouncing their whiteness. If they truly agree that race is a socially constructed concept, as they claim, abolitionists should also be able to recognize that racial identities are not either-or matters, not closed concepts that must be upheld in a reactionary fashion or disavowed in a comprehensive act of renunciation. To use a postmodern language I dislike: racial identities are deeply "hybridized"; they are not "sutured," but remain open to rearticulation. "To be white in America is to be very black. If you don't know how black you are, you don't know how American you are" (Thompson 1995, 429).

====**Critical infrastructure is just as vulnerable as it was during Hurricane Katrina—the lack of resilience disproportionately impacts the socially vulnerable and victims of structural violence. Without the plan, Katrina will repeat itself again and again**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Renne et al., 08</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008)</span>
The objective of this study is to research how state departments of transportation (state DOTs), metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs), transit agencies, and local governments are considering, in the context of their emergency preparedness planning, the unique needs of minority, low-income, elderly, disabled, and limited English proficient (LEP) persons, especially for households without vehicles (referred to as “carless” in this report). The evacuations of New Orleans and Houston in fall 2005 due to hurricanes Katrina and Rita were two of the largest evacuations in U.S. history. One of the main shortcomings was the lack of planning to evacuate carless residents, particularly minority, low-income, elderly, disabled, and LEP persons. In a report to Congress, the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Department of Homeland Security revealed that [m]ethods for communicating evacuation options by modes other than personal vehicles are not well developed in most cases. A number of jurisdictions indicate locations where public transportation may be obtained, but many have no specific services identified to assist persons in getting to those designated locations. This situation is a particular problem for people with various disabilities (U.S. Department of Transportation in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 2006, p. ES - 5) New Orleans is not unique. In fact, according to the 2000 U.S. Census, seven cities had carless populations higher than the 27 percent in New Orleans, including New York (56 percent), Washington, D.C. (37 percent), Baltimore (36 percent), Philadelphia (36 percent), Boston (35 percent), Chicago (29 percent), and San Francisco (29 percent). Nationally, approximately ten percent of the population is disabled and many of these individuals cannot drive, even if a car exists within their household. As the population ages, more and more people will become mobility-restricted. Even the elderly who have cars may be reluctant to drive them during a mandated long-distance evacuation. These groups face disproportionate risk and suffered loss of life in the flood of New Orleans. For example, 71% of those who died in Katrina in New Orleans were over the age of 60, and 47% over the age of 75 (AARP 2006a and 2006b). Perhaps, more alarming than the scope of emergency transport for low-mobility populations is the persistence of the problem. The extra risks that carless households face during an evacuation are well-recognized and have been documented in numerous reports and papers (Bourne, 2004; Fischett 2001). Despite this attention, relatively little has been done to improve the situation and only recently has a concerted effort been made to address this problem. Although some plans call for the use of local resources for the movement of indigent and elderly populations during times of emergency, the strategies remain questionable. Based on the current level of preparedness, it is quite likely that the tragedies seen in New Orleans during and after Hurricane Katrina are bound to be repeated unless best practices can be understood and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).

====**Util outweighs**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Issac ‘02</span> (Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring)

Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power. To accomplish anything in the political world one must attend to the means that are necessary to bring it about. And to develop such means is to develop, and to exercise, power. To say this is not to say that power is beyond morality. It is to say that power is not reducible to morality. As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one’s intentions does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally comprised parties may seem like the right thing, but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness, it is often a form of complicity in injustice. This is why, from the standpoint of politics-as opposed to religion-pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant. Just as the alignment with “good” may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of “good” that generates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one’s goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.
==== ==== 
====**Free trade key to promoting human rights and freedom**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sirico 98</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert A. Sirico is the co-founder and president of the Acton Institute for the Study of Religion and Liberty; Bachelors degree in English from the University of Southern California; Published on May 27th, 1998 for a Cato Institute Policy Forum </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/trade-briefing-paper/free-trade-human-rights-moral-case-engagement]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) ‘Individual Liberty, Free Markets and Peace: Free Trade and Human Rights: The Moral Case for Engagement’ **£H§**</span>


Three fundamental misunderstandings cloud the current debate over free trade and human rights. First, cutting government aid to target countries is not the same as raising barriers to trade and investment. Ending foreign aid and corporate subsidies actually promotes development by removing market distortions. Blocking trade, in contrast, hurts U.S. consumers and exporters as well as the most economically vulnerable people in the targeted nations. Second, some advocates of free trade in the U.S. business community have weakened their case by failing to acknowledge that human rights abuses exist. U.S. multinational firms further undermine their credibility by supporting government intervention through such agencies as the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Third, Christian conservatives who support sanctions betray a lack of understanding of how trade promotes freedom and development. Economic reforms in China have transformed daily life for hundreds of millions of people who now enjoy greater opportunity, freedom of movement, material abundance, and access to Western ideas. Trade with China benefits Americans through lower prices, wider consumer choice, and greater returns on investment. Imposing sanctions against China will disrupt this mutually beneficial relationship while doing nothing to improve human rights. Like the failed embargo against Cuba, trade sanctions isolate the victims while strengthening their persecutors. Sanctions imposed in the name of human rights also serve the interest of domestic protectionists by limiting competition. The best policy for promoting freedom and human rights remains economic and moral engagement.

====**Just because you expose racism doesn’t you mean change anything**==== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Litowitz</span>, Assistant Professor, Chicago-Kent College of Law. B.A., Oberlin College, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">97</span>
(Douglas E. University of Notre Dame, 72 Notre Dame L. Rev. 503)

But there is a problematic assumption running through much CRT scholarship to the effect that once our consciousness has been raised through narratives and stories, the correct legal decision will immediately become clear to us. That is, judges and lawyers who genuinely understand the experiences of people of color will start making decisions that will benefit these "out-groups." But is this a correct assumption? I think not, for the simple reason that a raised consciousness is no guarantee that a particular decision will be chosen. This can be seen by the rise of African-American intellectuals who have experienced stinging acts of racism yet remain staunchly opposed to affirmative action and set-asides, on doctrinal grounds. The very existence of neoconservative black intellectuals like Stephen Carter and Shelby Steele (not to mention Justice Clarence Thomas and law professor Randall Kennedy) militates against the idea that the subjective experience of racism will automatically lead to some sort of psychological conversion in which judges and lawyers will know how to "do the right thing." CRT acts as a sort of disinfectant which dispels some widely-held misconceptions about people of color, assumptions which are often held unconsciously by judges and lawyers. A judge who has read the works of Patricia Williams and Derrick Bell may be less likely to hold stereotypical, denigrating views of black people, and while this may not affect every decision that she makes, it can have a certain salutary effect. And the importance of this gestalt switch, this psychological conversion in how one sees minorities, should not be minimized, be- [*529] cause many judges and lawyers carry around distorted beliefs on racial matters. But even when CRT has raised our consciousness to the point where it is clear of racism (or at least relatively clear of it), there remains a separate debate which must take place at the level of legal doctrine, where we discuss theoretical questions of equality, fairness, due process, and desert. Assuming that CRT wants to contribute something more than consciousness raising, it needs to address this doctrinal, theoretical level, and to make the constitutional arguments that appeal to all of us (black, white, Asian), because we are splintered enough as it is.