[[toc]]
=Disadvantage= 
==Elections DA== 
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even if Obama’s not winning in polls, he’s going to win the electoral votes</span>**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Aravosis 10/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 [John Aravosis is a Washington, DC-based writer and political consultant, specializing in using the Internet for politics. He is the editor-in-chief of AMERICAblog, AMERICAblog Gay, and AMERICAblog Elections. John’s policy experience includes working as a legislative attorney in the United States Senate, a consultant at the World Bank, and a children’s right’s advocate at the Children’s Defense Fund. In 1997, John launched his own political Internet consulting firm, with clients ranging from governments (US Department of State, HHS, CDC, the city of Barcelona, the Social Democratic Party of Sweden) to non-profits (ACLU, Planned Parenthood, NEA, AFSCME). John continues consulting to this day. “Obama 74.4% chance of winning, Romney 25.6%” AmericaBlog http://americablog.com/2012/10/nate-silver-obama-74-4-chance-of-winning-romney-25-6.html]//DLi</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nate Silver of Five Thirty Eight ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he’s there to help.</span>

**New spending makes independents change their vote – Obama will lose**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Galston 5/10</span>** (Walliam, serves as a senior fellow in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, former policy advisor to President Clinton, “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf) // SKRG
Fiscal policy<span class="TitleChar">—</span>deemed<span class="TitleChar"> very ... fair share of taxes.</span>

**Independents will swing the elections—growing electorate and last 2 elections prove**
**Gilespie 3/14** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, editor in chief of Reason.com co-author of //The Declaration of Independents: How Libertarian Politics Can Fix What's Wrong With America// “Independents Will Decide the 2012 Election” 3/14/12 reason.com/archives/2012/03/14/independents-will-decide-the-2012-electi)KY</span>
A raft of new polls...national election if you win the independent vote.

**Romney will destroy US-Sino relations – destroys coop on econ warming**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Traub 12</span>**(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February,http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1) // SKRG
<span class="TitleChar">The Republicans tend to paint ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mistake of historic proportions.</span>