=Greenhill Round Robin [[toc]]= 
==Climate Adaptation 1AC== 
===Contention 1: Climate Change=== 

**Climate change is past the tipping point**
Sutley et al 10 (Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP // Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010)
14PROGRESS REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION TASK FORCE - 2010 PART TWO. THE IMPORTANCE OF ADAPTATION Climate change is affecting many aspects of our society, our livelihoods, and our environment. Communities across the Nation are experiencing climate change impacts, such as changes in average temperatures, more extreme weather events, and rising sea levels.3 Historically, societies and ecosystems have adjusted or adapted to natural variability in climatic conditions. However, the pace and impacts of climate change are occurring outside the range of past experiences, rendering many of our current adaptive mechanisms insufficient. In addition, climate change impacts do not act in isolation; rather, climate-related changes interact with and often magnify the impacts of existing non- climatic stressors. Decision-makers across the Nation will need to take proactive measures to better understand and prepare for current and future changes in climate conditions. There is scientific consensus that the Earth’s climate is changing due to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.4,5,6 As a result, increased energy trapped in the atmosphere and the oceans due to these higher concentrations is already leading to impacts, including warmer average water and air temperatures (Figure 1), in the United States and globally. The Obama Administration is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to minimize the future impacts of climate change. However, the climate impacts we are observing today will continue to increase, at least in the short-term, regardless of the degree to which greenhouse gas emissions are managed. This is driven by factors such as the long-lived nature of certain greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the absorption of heat by the Earth’s oceans. Even if we reduce our emissions, global average temperatures are predicted to rise over the next 100 years (Figure 2).7 In the long-term, theability to manage greenhouse gas emissions and moderate or reduce atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases will affect the magnitude of the impacts to which we will need to adapt.8 Therefore, mitigation and adaptation are inextricably linked, and both are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change

**That disrupts all transportation infrastructure**
EPA ‘12--[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html>]
Impacts on Roadways Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings and improved mobility from reduced snowfall and less-frequent winter storms since warmer winters may lead to reductions in snow and ice removal, as well as salting requirements. [1] [2] Climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges. [1] [2] Roadway damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Source: NASA (2005) Exposure to flooding and extreme snow events also shortens the life expectancy of highways and roads. The stress of water and snow may cause damage, requiring more frequent maintenance, repairs, and rebuilding. Road infrastructure in coastal areas is particularly sensitive to more frequent and permanent flooding from sea level rise and storm surges. Approximately 60,000 miles of coastal roads in the United States are already exposed to flooding from coastal storms and high waves. Furthermore, major highways in coastal areas serve as critical evacuation routes. Evacuation routes must be protected from flooding and damage so they may be used for emergencies. [2] [3] In some locations, warmer temperatures are projected to cause more winter precipitation to fall as rain instead of snow. Winter flooding could occur more frequently, if the frozen ground cannot absorb precipitation. Landslides and wash-outs could also occur more frequently, as saturated soils are exposed to more rainwater. Drought in areas such as the Southwest could increase the likelihood of wildfires that reduce visibility and threaten roads and infrastructure. [1] [2] Impacts on Ice Roads Freezing temperatures are required for ice roads in Alaska. These are frozen routes used to connect northern communities, as well as the oil, gas, and mining industries. The tundra beneath these frozen roads is fragile, so transportation is limited to periods when the road is frozen. Warming temperatures would reduce the number of days ice roads are open, limiting transportation access to these areas. Impacts on Vehicles As temperatures increase, many types of vehicles can overheat, and tires will deteriorate more quickly. But milder winters, reductions in the number of cold days, delays in winter freezing, and earlier spring thaws may reduce cold-weather damage to vehicles. [1]Impacts on Railways Extreme heat can cause rails to buckle. Source: Volpe National Transportation Systems Center High temperatures cause rail tracks to expand and buckle. More frequent and severe heat waves may require track repairs or speed restrictions to avoid derailments. [1] Heavy precipitation could also lead to delays and disruption. For example, the June 2008 Midwest floods closed major east-west rail lines for several days. Tropical storms and hurricanes can also leave debris on railways, disrupting rail travel and freight transport. [1] [2] Like roadways, coastal railways and subways are subject to inundation from sea level rise and storm surges. This is particularly true in underground pathways and tunnels, which are often already below sea level. Increased flooding from heavy precipitation and storm surges could disrupt rail travel as well as freight operations. Damages from flooding may require rail lines and subway infrastructure to be rebuilt or raised in future expansion projects. [1] [2] Impacts on Air Transportation Infrastructure In addition to causing closures or delays, flooding may damage facilities, including airstrips. Some of the busiest airports in the United States are located in low-lying coastal areas, making them particularly vulnerable to inundation. For example, in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, many critical transportation infrastructure facilities (including Newark and LaGuardia airports) lie within the range of current and projected 50-year coastal storm surges. Many airstrips in Alaska are built on permafrost. Warmer temperatures would thaw permafrost and cause soils to settle, potentially damaging the foundation and structure of key infrastructure. Runways and airports may require rebuilding, relocation, or increased maintenance. [1] [2] Impacts on Ships and Sea Lanes Ships are sensitive to many factors, including the depth of a channel and the extent of sea ice. Increasing temperatures could reduce the amount of sea ice in many important shipping lanes, extending the shipping season. Warmer winters will likely lead to less snow and ice accumulation on vessels, decks, and rigging in marine transportation. In the Arctic, warmer temperatures could also open up the possibility of a Northwest Passage, which could reduce shipping times and distances. However, these new passages may also provide a pathway for invasive species transport and survival. [1] [2] Shipping lanes experiencing sea level rise will be able to accommodate larger ships, reducing shipping costs. However, higher sea levels will mean lower clearance under waterway bridges. In inland waterways where water levels are expected to decline, as in the Great Lakes, ships could face weight restrictions, as channels become too shallow. [1] [2] Changes in precipitation can affect shipping in many ways. Flooding could close shipping channels, and increased runoff from extreme precipitation events could cause silt and debris to build up, leading to shallower channels. Changes in precipitation patterns could also affect the rate at which sediments accumulate, which may also make existing channels shallower and less accessible. In areas experiencing increasing drought, water levels could periodically decrease, limiting inland shipping on rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping.


**Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience**
MacArthur et al 12 – (John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)
In early January 2009, a severe winter storm hit the Pacific Northwest (PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars. Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, this weather event was not an isolated case. During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08 (WSDOT, 2008). While we must be careful to distinguish individual extreme weather events, such as those above, from long-term trends in climate, consensus in the scientific community projects an increased frequency and intensity of major storms, temperature increases, and changes in seasonal precipitation as a very likely outcome of global climate change. Patterns that today are considered “extreme” may instead become a new normal. This is a potentially very costly problem as our existing surface transportation system has been designed and constructed based upon historical climate trends. Assumptions that have been used historically to design facilities and respond to weather-related “emergencies” may no longer work. A transportation system built without planning for changing climate will likely experience a variety of costly impacts in terms of damage and traveler delay. Among these impacts are inundation of coastal roads from SLR; erosion of roadways and bridge supports from heavy precipitation and storms; increased road and rail maintenance due to flooding and temperature extremes; and travel delays due to weather events and more widespread wildfires. As a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (28 percent nationally), transportation was one of the early sectors to begin responding to the climate change threat, primarily through efforts to account for and reduce the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere (Center for Transportation and the Environment, 2008). Strategies involve a wide range of activities, including improvements in vehicle and fuel technologies, and land use planning and transportation operation improvements that reduce vehicle miles travelled and increase the overall efficiency of travel (Table 1). These activities are collectively referred to as climate mitigation (Cambridge Systematics, 2009). Recent studies indicate that climate change planning efforts conducted by governments have thus far overwhelmingly focused on mitigation strategies to reduce GHGs, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation (Wheeler, 2008).



===**Contention 2: Da Econ**=== 
**Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy**
Potter et al, 08, (Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” [[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]])
Transportation is such an integral part of daily life in the United States that few pause to consider its importance. Yet the Nation’s strong intermodal network of highways, public transit, rail, marine, and aviation is central to our ability to work, go to school, enjoy leisure time, maintain our homes, and stay in touch with friends and family. U.S. businesses depend on reliable transportation services to receive materials and transport products to their customers; a robust transportation network is essential to the economy. In short, a sound transportation system is vital to the Nation’s social and economic future. Transportation professionals – including planners, designers, engineers, financial specialists, ecologists, safety experts, and others – work hard to ensure that U.S. communities have access to safe and dependable transportation services. Given the ongoing importance of the Nation’s transportation system, it is appropriate to consider what effect climate change may have on this essential network. Through a regional case study of the central Gulf Coast, this report begins to examine the potential implications of climate change on transportation infrastructure, operations, and services. Investments in transportation are substantial and result in infrastructure that lasts for decades. Transportation plans and designs should, therefore, be carefully considered and well informed by a range of factors, including consideration of climate variability and change. Climate also affects the safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure and systems. This research investigates the potential impacts of climate variability and change on transportation, and it assesses how planners and managers may incorporate this information into their decisions to ensure a reliable and robust future transportation network. This report does not contain recommendations about specific facilities or adaptation strategies, but rather seeks to contribute to the information available so that States and local communities can make more informed decisions when planning for the future. The climate models used to estimate temperature changes agree that it will be warmer in the future. According to the IPCC report, global average warming is expected to be about 0.4°C (0.72°F) during the next 20 years. Even if the concentrations of all greenhouse gases and aerosols had been stabilized at 2000 levels, warming of 0.2°C (0.36°F) would be expected during this period (IPCC, 2007). Over the longer term, the IPCC models project average global temperature increases ranging from 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 6.4°C (11.5°F) by the end of the 21st century, although climate responses in specific regions will vary. These projections are the result of reviewing a robust set of global climate models under a variety of future scenarios – using a range of assumptions for future economic activity and energy use – for the Earth as a whole. The average increase in temperature may not be as important to the transportation community as the changes in extreme temperature, which also are expected to increase. Over the last 50 years, the frequency of cold days and nights has declined, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent. The number of days with temperature above 32°C (90°F) and 38°C (100°F) has been increasing since 1970, as has the intensity and length of periods of drought. The IPCC report finds that it is virtually certain that the next century will witness warmer and more frequent hot days and nights over most land areas (IPCC, 2007). Increasing temperatures have the potential to affect multiple modes of transportation, primarily impacting surface transportation. The transportation impacts mentioned most often in the literature included pavement damage; rail buckling; less lift and fuel efficiency for aircraft; and the implications of lower inland water levels, thawing permafrost, reduced ice cover on seaways, and an increase in vegetation. These are discussed in greater detail below: • Pavement damage – The quality of highway pavement was identified as a potential issue for temperate climates, where more extreme summer temperatures and/or more frequent freeze/thaw cycles may be experienced. Extremely hot days, over an extended period of time, could lead to the rutting of highway pavement and the more rapid breakdown of asphalt seal binders, resulting in cracking, potholing, and bleeding. This, in turn, could damage the structural integrity of the road and/or cause the pavement to become more slippery when wet. Adaptation measures mentioned included more frequent maintenance, milling out ruts, and the laying of more heat resistant asphalt. • Rail buckling – Railroads could encounter rail buckling more frequently in temperate climates that experience extremely hot temperatures. If unnoticed, rail buckling can result in derailment of trains. Peterson (2008) noted, “Lower speeds and shorter trains, to shorten braking distance, and lighter loads to reduce track stress are operational impacts.” Adaptation measures included better monitoring of rail temperatures and ultimately more maintenance of the track, replacing it when needed. • Vegetation growth – The growing season for deciduous trees that shed their leaves may be extended, causing more slipperiness on railroads and roads and visual obstructions. Possible adaptation measures included better management of the leaf foliage and planting more low-maintenance vegetation along transportation corridors to act as buffers (Wooler, 2004). • Reductions in aircraft lift and efficiency – Higher temperatures would reduce air density, decreasing both lift and the engine efficiency of aircraft. As a result, longer runways and/or more powerful airplanes would be required. However, one analyst projected that technical advances would minimize the need for runway redesign as aircraft become more powerful and efficient (Wooler, 2004). • Reduced water levels – Changes in water levels were discussed in relation to marine transport. Inland waterways such as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River could experience lower water levels due to increased temperatures and evaporation; these lower water levels would mean that ships and barges would not be able to carry as much weight. Adaptation measures included reducing cargo loads, designing vessels to require less draft, or dredging the water body to make it deeper. • Reduced ice cover – Reduced ice cover was generally considered a positive impact of increasing temperatures in the literature. For example, a study conducted by John D. Lindeberg and George M. Albercook, which was included in the Report of the Great Lakes Regional Assessment Group for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, stated, “the costs of additional dredging [due to lower water levels] could be partially mitigated by the benefits of additional shipping days on the [Great] Lakes caused by less persistent ice cover” (Sousounis, 2000, p. 41). Additionally, arctic sea passages could open; for example, the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment noted, “projected reductions in sea-ice extent are likely to improve access along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage” (Instanes et al., 2005, p. 934). However, negative environmental and security impacts also may result from reduced ice cover as well from as the increased level of shipping. These are discussed below in the subsection on indirect impacts (Section 1.3.6.). • Thawing permafrost – The implications of thawing permafrost for Arctic infrastructure receive considerable attention in the literature. Permafrost is the foundation upon which much of the Arctic’s infrastructure is built. The literature consistently noted that as the permafrost thaws the infrastructure will become unstable – an effect being experienced today. Roads, railways, and airstrips are all vulnerable to the thawing of permafrost. Adaptation measures vary depending on the amount of permafrost that underlies any given piece of infrastructure. The literature suggested that some assets will only need rehabilitation, other assets will need to be relocated, and different construction methods will need to be used, including the possibility of installing cooling mechanisms. According to the Arctic Research Commission, “roads, railways, and airstrips placed on ice-rich continuous permafrost will generally require relocation to well-drained natural foundations or replacement with substantially different construction methods” (U.S. Arctic Research Commission Permafrost Task Force, 2003, p. 29). • Other – Other impacts of increasing temperatures included a reduction in ice loads on structures (such as bridges and piers), which could eventually allow them to be designed for less stress, and a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.

**Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade**
WTO and UNEP ’09 (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” [[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]])
As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected to become more widespread and to intensify. For example, even with small increases in average temperature, the type, frequency and intensity of extreme weather – such as hurricanes, typhoons, floods, droughts, and storms – are projected to increase. Th e distribution of these weather events, however, is expected to vary considerably among regions and countries, and impacts will depend to a large extent on the vulnerability of populations or ecosystems. Developing countries, and particularly the poorest and most marginalized populations within these countries, will generally be both the most adversely aff ected by the impacts of future climate change and the most vulnerable to its eff ects, because they are less able to adapt than developed countries and populations. In addition, climate change risks compound the other challenges which are already faced by these countries, including tackling poverty, improving health care, increasing food security and improving access to sources of energy. For instance, climate change is projected to lead to hundreds of millions of people having limited access to water supplies or facing inadequate water quality, which will, in turn, lead to greater health problems. Although the impacts of climate change are specific to location and to the level of development, most sectors of the global economy are expected to be affected and these impacts will often have implications for trade. For example, three trade-related areas are considered to be particularly vulnerable to climate change. Agriculture is considered to be one of the sectors most vulnerable to climate change, and also represents a key sector for international trade. In low-latitude regions, where most developing countries are located, reductions of about 5 to 10 per cent in the yields of major cereal crops are projected even in the case of small temperature increases of around 1° C. Although it is expected that local temperature increases of between 1° C and 3° C would have benefi cial impacts on agricultural outputs in mid- to high-latitude regions, warming beyond this range will most likely result in increasingly negative impacts for these regions also. According to some studies, crop yields in some African countries could fall by up to 50 per cent by 2020, with net revenues from crops falling by as much as 90 per cent by 2100. Depending on the location, agriculture will also be prone to water scarcity due to loss of glacial meltwater and reduced rainfall or droughts. Tourism is another industry that may be particularly vulnerable to climate change, for example, through changes in snow cover, coastal degradation and extreme weather. Both the fi sheries and forestry sectors also risk being adversely impacted by climate change. Likewise, ix Part IV Part III Part II Part I there are expected to be major impacts on coastal ecosystems, including the disappearance of coral and the loss of marine biodiversity. Finally, one of the clearest impacts will be on trade infrastructure and routes. The IPCC has identified port facilities, as well as buildings, roads, railways, airports and bridges, as being dangerously at risk of damage from rising sea levels and the increased occurrence of instances of extreme weather, such as flooding and hurricanes. Moreover, it is projected that changes in sea ice, particularly in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.

**Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression**
Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ][[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.


**Transportation infrastructure solves hegemony and trade**
AGC ‘11 (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” [[http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf]])
It also is important to note that the federal programs for investing in highway and transit projects has traditionally been self-funded. Since the 1950s, highway users have, through a mixture of gas taxes and other use-related fees, provided all of the funds that go into the Highway Trust Fund. Until only recently all federal surface transportation investments had come from this self-funded Trust Fund. In other words, structured correctly, the federal surface transportation program does not have to cost anyone that doesn’t use the highway system a single penny. As important, there is a strong argument to be made for the fact that the proper role of the federal government is to create and set conditions favorable to private sector job creation. For example, in an economy where the difference between success and failure is often measured by a company’s ability to deliver goods quickly and efficiently, maintaining transportation infrastructure is as important to the success of the private sector as are stable and low tax rates, minimal red tape and regulations and consistent and stable rule of law. Officials in Washington also need to understand that allowing our transportation infrastructure to deteriorate will serve as an added tax on private citizens and the business community alike. That is because added congestion, shipping delays and transportation uncertainty will raise commuting costs, the price of most retail and grocery goods and the cost of getting supplies and delivering products for most U.S. businesses. Investing in infrastructure is vital to our national economic security. America’s position and power in the world is directly dependent on its economic supremacy. It is, after all, our national wealth that funds the country’s highly skilled Armed Forces, that allows us to direct global trade policy and that allows our currency to dominate global marketplaces. Without continued investments to support and nurture that economic vitality, America will surely be eclipsed by other, fast-growing competitors like China, Brazil and/or India. Given that so much of the U.S. economy has evolved into a just-in-time model where as-needed deliveries are far more efficient than expensive warehousing and storage, maintaining our transportation infrastructure is vitally important to the health of our economy. Traffic congestion and aging roads already cost U.S. businesses $80 billion a year because of deferred infrastructure maintenance and our failure to keep pace with the growth of shipping and other traffic. Allowing our transportation infrastructure to deteriorate will only further undermine our businesses and erode our national economic security. In other cases, the federal government has an obligation to invest in infrastructure to avoid imposing costs on U.S. businesses and imposing unfunded mandates on state and local governments. For example, local governments had long been responsible for paying to maintain and operate water systems. That meant only major cities and wealthy towns had access to modern water systems. Much of that changed when the federal government began mandating quality standards for drinking water and wastewater discharge through legislation like the Clean Water Act and Safe Drinking Water Act. These standards were in the best interest of the nation, ensuring protection of public health and environmental quality. By mandating quality standards, however, the federal government forces local governments to spend billions of dollars to upgrade equipment and comply with regulatory burdens. The federal government must not foist the burden of maintaining national standards onto local ratepayers alone. Given that it is in the federal interest to set water quality standards, then so too must it be in the federal interest to provide – primarily in the form of state revolving loan funds – financing help to operators so they can meet those standards.


**US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact**
Panitchpakdi ‘4 (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)
The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider global objectives. Fighting terrorism, reducing poverty, improving health, integrating China and other countries in the global economy — all of these issues are linked, in one way or another, to world trade. This is not to say that trade is the answer to all America's economic concerns; only that meaningful solutions are inconceivable without it. The world trading system is the linchpin of today's global order — underpinning its security as well as its prosperity. A successful WTO is an example of how multilateralism can work. Conversely, if it weakens or fails, much else could fail with it. This is something which the US — at the epicentre of a more interdependent world — cannot afford to ignore. These priorities must continue to guide US policy — as they have done since the Second World War. America has been the main driving force behind eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations, including the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the WTO. The US — together with the EU — was instrumental in launching the latest Doha Round two years ago. Likewise, the recent initiative, spearheaded by Ambassador Zoellick, to re-energize the negotiations and move them towards a successful conclusion is yet another example of how essential the US is to the multilateral process — signalling that the US remains committed to further liberalization, that the Round is moving, and that other countries have a tangible reason to get on board. The reality is this: when the US leads the system can move forward; when it withdraws, the system drifts. The fact that US leadership is essential, does not mean it is easy. As WTO rules have expanded, so too has as the complexity of the issues the WTO deals with — everything from agriculture and accounting, to tariffs and telecommunication. The WTO is also exerting huge gravitational pull on countries to join — and participate actively — in the system. The WTO now has 146 Members — up from just 23 in 1947 — and this could easily rise to 170 or more within a decade. Emerging powers like China, Brazil, and India rightly demand a greater say in an institution in which they have a growing stake. So too do a rising number of voices outside the system as well. More and more people recognize that the WTO matters. More non-state actors — businesses, unions, environmentalists, development NGOs — want the multilateral system to reflect their causes and concerns. A decade ago, few people had even heard of the GATT. Today the WTO is front page news. A more visible WTO has inevitably become a more politicized WTO. The sound and fury surrounding the WTO's recent Ministerial Meeting in Cancun — let alone Seattle — underline how challenging managing the WTO can be. But these challenges can be exaggerated. They exist precisely because so many countries have embraced a common vision. Countries the world over have turned to open trade — and a rules-based system — as the key to their growth and development. They agreed to the Doha Round because they believed their interests lay in freer trade, stronger rules, a more effective WTO. Even in Cancun the great debate was whether the multilateral trading system was moving fast and far enough — not whether it should be rolled back. Indeed, it is critically important that we draw the right conclusions from Cancun — which are only now becoming clearer. The disappointment was that ministers were unable to reach agreement. The achievement was that they exposed the risks of failure, highlighted the need for North-South collaboration, and — after a period of introspection — acknowledged the inescapable logic of negotiation. Cancun showed that, if the challenges have increased, it is because the stakes are higher. The bigger challenge to American leadership comes from inside — not outside — the United States. In America's current debate about trade, jobs and globalization we have heard a lot about the costs of liberalization. We need to hear more about the opportunities. We need to be reminded of the advantages of America's openness and its trade with the world — about the economic growth tied to exports; the inflation-fighting role of imports, the innovative stimulus of global competition. We need to explain that freer trade works precisely because it involves positive change — better products, better job opportunities, better ways of doing things, better standards of living. While it is true that change can be threatening for people and societies, it is equally true that the vulnerable are not helped by resisting change — by putting up barriers and shutting out competition. They are helped by training, education, new and better opportunities that — with the right support policies — can flow from a globalized economy. The fact is that for every job in the US threatened by imports there is a growing number of high-paid, high skill jobs created by exports. Exports supported 7 million workers a decade ago; that number is approaching around 12 million today. And these new jobs — in aerospace, finance, information technology — pay 10 per cent more than the average American wage. We especially need to inject some clarity — and facts — into the current debate over the outsourcing of services jobs. Over the next decade, the US is projected to create an average of more than 2 million new services jobs a year — compared to roughly 200,000 services jobs that will be outsourced. I am well aware that this issue is the source of much anxiety in America today. Many Americans worry about the potential job losses that might arise from foreign competition in services sectors. But it’s worth remembering that concerns about the impact of foreign competition are not new. Many of the reservations people are expressing today are echoes of what we heard in the 1970s and 1980s. But people at that time didn’t fully appreciate the power of American ingenuity. Remarkable advances in technology and productivity laid the foundation for unprecedented job creation in the 1990s and there is no reason to doubt that this country, which has shown time and again such remarkable potential for competing in the global economy, will not soon embark again on such a burst of job-creation. America's openness to service-sector trade — combined with the high skills of its workforce — will lead to more growth, stronger industries, and a shift towards higher value-added, higher-paying employment. Conversely, closing the door to service trade is a strategy for killing jobs, not saving them. Americans have never run from a challenge and have never been defeatist in the face of strong competition. Part of this challenge is to create the conditions for global growth and job creation here and around the world. I believe Americans realize what is at stake. The process of opening to global trade can be disruptive, but they recognize that the US economy cannot grow and prosper any other way. They recognize the importance of finding global solutions to shared global problems. Besides, what is the alternative to the WTO? Some argue that the world's only superpower need not be tied down by the constraints of the multilateral system. They claim that US sovereignty is compromised by international rules, and that multilateral institutions limit rather than expand US influence. Americans should be deeply sceptical about these claims. Almost none of the trade issues facing the US today are any easier to solve unilaterally, bilaterally or regionally. The reality is probably just the opposite. What sense does it make — for example — to negotiate e-commerce rules bilaterally? Who would be interested in disciplining agricultural subsidies in a regional agreement but not globally? How can bilateral deals — even dozens of them — come close to matching the economic impact of agreeing to global free trade among 146 countries? Bilateral and regional deals can sometimes be a complement to the multilateral system, but they can never be a substitute. There is a bigger danger. By treating some countries preferentially, bilateral and regional deals exclude others — fragmenting global trade and distorting the world economy. Instead of liberalizing trade — and widening growth — they carve it up. Worse, they have a domino effect: bilateral deals inevitably beget more bilateral deals, as countries left outside are forced to seek their own preferential arrangements, or risk further marginalization. This is precisely what we see happening today. There are already over two hundred bilateral and regional agreements in existence, and each month we hear of a new or expanded deal. There is a basic contradiction in the assumption that bilateral approaches serve to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based system. Even when intended to spur free trade, they can ultimately risk undermining it. This is in no one's interest, least of all the United States. America led in the creation of the multilateral system after 1945 precisely to avoid a return to hostile blocs — blocs that had done so much to fuel interwar instability and conflict. America's vision, in the words of Cordell Hull, was that “enduring peace and the welfare of nations was indissolubly connected with the friendliness, fairness and freedom of world trade”. Trade would bind nations together, making another war unthinkable. Non-discriminatory rules would prevent a return to preferential deals and closed alliances. A network of multilateral initiatives and organizations — the Marshal Plan, the IMF, the World Bank, and the GATT, now the WTO — would provide the institutional bedrock for the international rule of law, not power. Underpinning all this was the idea that freedom — free trade, free democracies, the free exchange of ideas — was essential to peace and prosperity, a more just world. It is a vision that has emerged pre-eminent a half century later. Trade has expanded twenty-fold since 1950. Millions in Asia, Latin America, and Africa are being lifted out of poverty, and millions more have new hope for the future. All the great powers — the US, Europe, Japan, India, China and soon Russia — are part of a rules-based multilateral trading system, greatly increasing the chances for world prosperity and peace. There is a growing realization that — in our interdependent world — sovereignty is constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.

**Nuclear war**
Panzner 8 – (2008, Michael, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.



===Contention 3: Heg=== 
**Absent adaptation measures, climate change will impair airport operation**
TRBNA, 11 Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11 [Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]] ]
The potential serious physical damage to the facilities and infrastructure of an airport mainly result from the changes in precipitation, temperature, sea level, storm surge, and winds. The risks include flooding, heat buckle and other forms of expansion stress, permafrost thaw buckle in northern regions, perimeter security breaches, and fuel contamination or spills from pipe ruptures. As noted in the previous section, secondary effects of climate change may also cause new risks, such as extreme erosion, soil depletion, wild land fires, and facility damage from new species of animals and plants. Addressing potential physical damage from future climate change can generally be done • Rebuilding, relocating, or abandoning shoreline facilities (e.g., seawalls, sewage treatment outfalls, and building and runway foundations) to accommodate expected future higher sea levels It would be unusual for these types of physical improvements to be carried out in isolation from the regular process of continuous planning, design, development, and maintenance that typically goes on at any airport. Climate change adaptation actions for the physical plant can be seen as one of many objectives to be incorporated into the master planning and asset management process. This approach ensures that solutions are thought through in an integrated and comprehensive manner, to minimize the costs of the improvements and maximize the efficiency of the development process over time. The goal is to adapt to this new consideration of climate change in a way that still maximizes the utility of the often very long lived components of the airport infrastructure.

**Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability**
Department of the Air Force ’01 [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf]] )
The Air National Guard is a constitutionally unique military organization with roots dating back to the very beginnings of our country and its militia. Our State and Federal missions are accomplished by 88 flying wings and 1,600 support units located at 173 locations in all 50 states, 3 territories and the District of Columbia. The plant value of Air National Guard-managed real estate exceeds $12.6 billion with over 4,800 facilities comprising in excess of 32 million square feet. We partner with 67 civilian airports that provide access to an additional $4.4 billion in airfield infrastructure at a fraction of what it would cost us to own and operate it ourselves. These facilities support a Total Force capability that is unrivaled in the world today. While comprising roughly 34 percent of the Air Force’s mission capability, the Air National Guard specifically provides 100 percent of the Nation’s air defense and 45 percent of the theater airlift mission to name a few. In addition to high visibility missions like last year’s flight to the South Pole to rescue Dr. Gerri Nielsen, the Air Guard is a significant player in the Aerospace Expeditionary Force.

**And, flexible rapid reaction of US airpower is crucial to deterring WMD conflicts globally**
Khalilzad 98 – [Zalmay Khalizad and Ian Lesser, Senior Analysts at RAND Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, 1998, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]]]
This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will of necessity be the primary instruments constituting the American response. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.

**Climate change increases freight cost**
Rossetti ’02[Micheal A. Rossetti, Michael Rossetti is a Strategic Planner and Economist at the DOT Volpe Center. He has served as Executive Agent for the DOT/NSTC initiative on Enhanced Transportation Weather Services. He is member of the User Advisory Group of the US Weather Research Program, and of the OFCM Joint Action Group on Weather Information for Surface Transportation. He is the author of many DOT publications on transportation statistics, and technology development. Previously, he was employed at the Federal Communications Commission and National Research Council. Mr. Rossetti holds a M.A. degree from the Pennsylvania State University and an A.B. from Boston College, “The Potential Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, 2002, http://climate.dot.gov/documents/workshop1002/rossetti.pdf]
Climate models suggest a future warming of 0.2 - 0.3oC per decade.1 Sea levels are expected to rise at a rate of 4 to 10 cm per decade. Ancillary effects include changes in regional distributions of rainfall and soil moisture, and possibly more frequent and more intense storm systems. In recent years, the complexities of climate change and predictions of climate model outputs have introduced an additional measure of uncertainty for railroad operators. Weather events, climate oscillations, and climate trends hence affect railroad safety, including fatalities, injuries, and property damage. Through their interactions with maintenance, planning, operating efficiency, scheduling, and demand for freight and passenger services, weather and climate may also affect a firm’s balance sheet, and cash flow, capital investment decisions, and even competitive stance within the industry.

**Increased freight cost uniquely impact the steel industry**
Cooney ‘07[Stephen Cooney, Congressional Research Service; Resources, Science, and Industry Division at IRL School at Cornell University, “Steel: Price and Policy Issues”, 10-31-2007, [[http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1492&context=key_workplace]]]
Rail transportation costs, seen as railways have consolidated and created more “capitive shippers,” have had a negative effect on industry, particularly in raising the costs and reducing the options for shipping inputs like scrap and delivering finished product to customers. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), while rail rates have declined over the long term, they increased by 9% in 2005, basically for all products across the board.90 The steel industry specifically reported increases of around a third in rail costs since 2003, and in some cases as high as 60%. “Transportation costs have escalated to the point that they now account for 15-20% of the total cost of producing steel.”91

**Stable supply of steel key to military infrastructure**
TNS ‘08 [July 1, 2008 Targeted News Service, “U.S. Steel Industry Critical To Keeping Us Free,”, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/]]]
As we reflect on our country's independence this Fourth of July, we should pause to recognize those who fought for our freedom more than 230 years ago. But we should also recognize those who continue to keep our country free today: the men and women in uniform who offer their noble service in order to preserve America's national security. "Members of the United States Navy, Marine Corps, Army, Air Force and Coast Guard, both at home and overseas, risk their lives everyday to ensure that Americans continue to have the freedoms that our country is founded upon. It is their commitment to our country that has made America what it is today - a beacon for freedom and democracy, "Andrew G. Sharkey, III, president and CEO, American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), said. "Our veterans represent the very best of America and the U.S. steel industry is continuously working to serve the military in their efforts to defend our nation." Sharkey said domestically-produced steel is important to "improve our military platforms, strengthen the nation's industrial base and harden our vital homeland security infrastructure." Congressman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, has noted that "to ensure that our national defense needs will be met, it is crucial that we have a robust and vibrant domestic steel industry. It is poor policy to rely on foreign steel for our national security - instead, we need a long-term investment in domestically-produced, high-quality and reliable steel that will serve and strengthen our national security interests." Protecting the nation's vast infrastructure is essential to our homeland security. This became an issue in recent times when it was discovered that substandard steel imported from China was being used by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to construct the border fence between the United States and Mexico. Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, including Congressman Visclosky (D-IN), have worked to introduce legislation that will help strengthen the domestic steel industry in order to address issues of substandard steel imports. "AISI and its members greatly appreciate the Congressional Steel Caucus' support for the steel industry and their vigilance on behalf of America's national security," Sharkey said. In addition, thousands of skilled men and women of the U.S. steel industry work to produce high quality, cost-competitive products that are used by the military in various applications ranging from aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines to Patriot and Stinger missiles, Sharkey said. Land based vehicles, such as the Bradley Fighting Vehicle, Abrams Tank and the family of Light Armored Vehicles, also utilize significant tonnage of steel plate per vehicle. The up-armored Humvee, in use by the U.S. Army, includes steel plating around the cab of the vehicle, offering improved protection against small arms fire and shrapnel. In fact, the steel plating underneath the cab is designed to survive up to eight pounds of explosives beneath the engine to four pounds in the cargo area. These critical applications require consistent, high quality domestic sources of supply. "We as a country need to make sure that our national defense needs will be met, making it critical for the United States to have a robust and vibrant domestic steel industry that will serve to strengthen our national security interests," Sharkey noted. Historically, American-made steel and specialty metals have been integral components of U.S. military strength and they continue in this role today. The Department of Defense's (DOD's) primary use of steel in weapons systems is for shipbuilding, but steel is also an important component in ammunition, aircraft parts, and aircraft engines. DOD's steel requirements are satisfied by both integrated steel mills and EAF producer mills. "With the desire never to be dependent on foreign nations for the steel used in military applications, it is critical that U.S. trade laws be defended, strengthened and enforced so that American-made steel can continue to play a vital role in our nation's security," Sharkey said. "On this Independence Day, let's pledge to work to uphold that ideal."

**Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation**
Zhang* and Shi **11-[Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and** Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]
Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

===Plan Text=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by adapting transportation systems to climate change.**

===Contention 4: Solvency=== 

**Adaptation solves – it’s feasible and it saves money in in the long run.**
Schwartz, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|
Interactions and relationships among geographicalregions and social sectors cannot be ignored. Droughtin the Southwest and/or increases in water and air temperaturesmay reduce the efficiencies of power plants,just when more power is needed for air conditioning.Intense storms and floods can impact commerce, as theydid following Katrina and the great floods of 1993 onthe upper Mississippi River.Conflicts inevitably arise between the needs of peopleand the needs of the ecosystem in which they live,and adaptation measures to manage the risks of climatechange must incorporate sound sustainability principles.If we plan and act responsibly, we may be able to “have our cake and eat it too.”Sound Solutions for the 21st CenturyTransportation SystemWe must not use the uncertainties and challenges of adapting to climate change as an excuse for inaction.The challenge to the engineering profession is to take into account the inherent uncertainties of climate science, as well as complex technological, social, economic, and environmental interrelationships, and develop sound solutions for transportation systems that will serve us until the end of the century. A large bodyof work has been done on making decisions on issuesthat include great uncertainties. Scenario analyses, forexample, can provide “envelopes” of possible outcomes(e.g., best case/worst case scenarios and respective probabilities).To many, climate change is a distant worry, but developers of transportation systems work on a time horizon of 50 to 100 years for new and rehabilitated facilities. Thus they have no choice but to take into account the impacts of climate change. The marginal costs of accommodating climate change impacts in major systems will be dwarfed by the cost of retrofitting systems to meet these same needs decades hence. To engineers, manyof the solutions for adaptation are fairly obvious—build robust, resilient systems, protect or move existing assets,and, when necessary, abandon indefensible facilities.Some adaptations to climate change are listedbelow:Sea Level Rise• Build or enhance levees and dikes to resist higher sea levels and storm surges.• Elevate critical infrastructure.• Abandon or relocate coastal highways, rail lines,and bridges.• Provide good evacuation routes and operational plans.• Provide federal incentives to reduce the amount of development in at-risk coastal regions.Heat Waves• Support research on new, more heat-resistant materials for paving and bridge decks.• Replace and/or reconstruct highway and bridge expansion joints.• Increase the length of airport runways to compensate for lower air densities.• Revisit standards for construction workers exposed to high temperatures. Increased Storm Intensity• Revise hydrologic storm and flood frequency maps.• Develop new design standards for hydraulic structures.• Reinforce at-risk structures, particularly to protect against scouring of bridge piers.• Encourage better land-use planning for flood plains. Stronger Hurricanes• Move critical infrastructure inland.• Reinforce and/or build more robust, resilient structures.• Design for greater storm surges.• Strengthen and elevate port facilities.Arctic Warming• Identify areas and infrastructure that will be damaged by thawing permafrost.• Develop new approaches to foundation design.• Reinforce, protect, or move seaside villages.ConclusionsWe can continue to debate the validity of climate science,but waiting for decades or longer for final “proof” would be foolhardy at best. Fifty or 100 years from nowthe impact of increasing emissions of GHGs will be firmly established. If the projections of today’s climate scientists are correct and we have failed to take both mitigating and adaptive actions, then much damage will already have been done.The potential impacts of climate change on the builtenvironment and the implications for transportation infrastructure are sufficiently well defined for us to take action now. If this generation of engineers fails to act,c oastal highways and railroads will be under water,bridges will be unusable, tunnels will be periodically flooded, communities in the Midwest, Northeast, andSoutheast will be threatened by river flooding, people inthe Southwest will face increasing water shortages, andentire villages along the North Slope of Alaska will beswallowed by the sea.However, if we incorporate climate change into the regular planning processes for transportation and other infrastructure, the marginal costs of building more robust,resilient systems can be readily accommodated. And wewill have met our obligations to future generations.

**Only federal leadership solves coordination**
Smith et al ’10 (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership” http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf)
While many adaptations will occur at the state and local levels, the federal government is a critical player in an effective and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation in the United States. The federal government is significant for four primary reasons discussed in more detail in a later section: it owns and manages a significant number of assets and natural resources; its programs affect the ability of others to adapt; it is an important provider of technical, fiscal, and other support; and it plays a crucial role in dealing with impacts that cross geographic or jurisdictional boundaries. Some municipalities, states, federal agencies, and others have already recognized the importance of addressing climate impacts by initiating climate adaptation plans, commissioning impact or vulnerability assessments, or enacting “no regrets” adaptation actions 2 that improve their communities’ climate resilience. Such efforts are making initial strides in tackling adaptation needs, but a dedicated and appropriately focused national program is needed to address the multiple institutions, sectors, and levels of government involved in adaptation as well as the complexity, magnitude, and long time horizon of many climate impacts.

**Federal leadership key on adaptation policies**
Sutley et al ‘10 (Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010 )//
//The Role of the Federal Government in Adapting to Climate Change The Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation, but it is only one part of a broader effort that must include multiple levels of government and private and non-governmental partners throughout the country. In particular, Federal leadership, guidance, information, and support are vital to planning for and implementing adaptive actions. Because climate impacts span political boundaries, the Federal Government must respond in partnership with communities, Tribes, and states – many of which are already beginning to implement adaptation measures. Effective adaptation requires that stakeholders in affected regions coordinate their responses to climate impacts on shared infrastructure and resources. At the core of the Federal Government’s role should be a commitment to promote and implement best practices for adaptation, build greater public awareness and understanding of the importance of adaptation, and maintain dialogue and partnerships with stakeholders and decision makers. The Government should continue to enhance services that enable informed decisions based on the best available science, and to work with the international community to improve knowledge sharing and coordinate adaptation investments. The Government should also consider how Federal policies may lead to unintended consequences that increase the Nation’s vulnerability to climate risks, thus making adaptation more costly and difficult. For example, certain policies may lead to increased development in the very areas that climate risks would suggest people avoid. The Federal Government also has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects a wide range of Federal services, operations, programs, assets (e.g., infrastructure, land), and our national security. The Government must exercise a leadership role to address climate impacts on Federal infrastructure interests and on natural, cultural, and historic resources that it has statutory responsibilities to protect. The Federal Government should identify its most significant adaptation risks and opportunities and incorporate response strategies into its planning to ensure that Federal resources are invested wisely and that its services and operations remain effective in the context of a changing climate. Importantly, the Federal Government must work in partnership with local, state, Tribal, and regional authorities as it develops and implements adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level. The Federal Government has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects Federal lands, including National Parks and forests//

//**An increase in federal readiness to address climate change is key – deferring to state action will leave the federal government and FEMA unprepared and incapable of reacting to crises**//
//Campbell et. al. 7 CEO and co-founder of the Center for a New American Security and former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Asia and the Pacific, in ‘7 | Kurt M., Jay Gulledge, J.R. McNeill, John Podesta, Peter Ogden, Leon Fuerth, R. James, Woolsey, Alexander T.J. lennon, Julianne Smith, Richard Weitz, and Derek Mix, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change”, CSIS & Center for a New American Security, November|//
//The United States’ federal system may also experience stress. As noted above, one possible consequence of severe climate change will be greatly increased frequency of region-wide disasters as the result of an increasing number of especially violent storms. At some level, even a well-prepared Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) system might be overwhelmed. As the cumulative magnitude of such damage increases, the federal government would likely leave state governments to shoulder more and more of the burden. The effect would be to strain the ligaments that hold the federal system together. State governments are already pulling away from federal leadership on the environment. California is the leading example but others are coming along, mainly in the form of regional groupings.256 The federal government is already fiscally compromised by defense costs in competition with escalating costs for maintaining the social contract. The additional costs entailed by climate change will make these problems unmanageable without drastic tradeoffs. At some point the government’s ability to plan and act proactively will break down because the scale of events begins to overwhelm policies before they can generate appreciable results.//

//**Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences**//
//DEFRA ‘11 (“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs [[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]])//
//The impact of climate change on infrastructure is an important economic, environmental and social issue, recognised by the Government’s National Infrastructure Plan 4. Recent impacts from flooding and severe weather highlight the risks infrastructure could face and the significant economic damage these types of events bring. Effective, reliable infrastructure underpins economic activity, and failure to adapt, increases the possibility of service disruption and adverse economic impacts. That is why Defra’s Business Plan 5 has a priority to support a strong and sustainable green economy resilient to climate change; adapting infrastructure forms a key part to realising this. To reduce the risk infrastructure faces from climate change planned, but flexible, adaptation actions are required. Therefore, it is about putting in place measures that enable the cost effective management of climate impacts to reduce the risk that climate change presents to infrastructure. This includes integrating the impacts of climate change into decision making for new infrastructure and maintenance of existing infrastructure. It is not about eliminating all risks from climate change or extreme weather. Potential Opportunities In a low carbon, climate resilient world, investment in climate resilient infrastructure will help enhance the attractiveness of the UK for inward investment, benefitting the economy, business and Government. Modelling by the OECD6 suggests that each £1 spent on climate change adaptation delivers four times its value in terms of potential damage avoided. Adapting infrastructure to climate change presents opportunities if early action is taken and expertise developed. This includes new skills and technologies as well as additional adaptation capacity to enable infrastructure to be adapted, such as new engineering practices or IT-based technology. All countries will need to increase their investment in their infrastructure to adjust to a more challenging climate. This is a potential opportunity; by developing adaptation expertise now, businesses should be well-placed to capitalise on opportunities in domestic and global markets. Potential economic opportunities • Development of new technologies and skills to be used domestically and exported. • Engineering and planning consultancy benefits, if we do this sooner and better than other countries, our engineering and consultancy organisations can be market leaders in adapting infrastructure. • Development of new ICT-based technologies to aid climate resilient infrastructure. • Investment and insurance sector can promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.//

//**Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse**//
//Ganapathy ‘11 (“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCES Volume 2, No 2, 2011http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf)
We are living in the age of disasters. The more we advance, the greater is the impact of each disaster on our society and the more it becomes necessary for us to build resilience into our communities and infrastructure. We cannot avert most disasters. We can, however, be prepared for them to minimize their impact and return to normalcy within the shortest possible time after a disaster with the help of as little external resources as possible. This is what a resilient society strives for. Transportation be it road, rail, air or water – is the lifeline of our society. Serious disruption to transportation infrastructure can have catastrophic impact on the ability of the community, business and economy to recover from a disaster. Hence it is of utmost importance for researchers to address the issue of building resilient transportation infrastructures. Today, more than three quarters of world trade by volume is carried on ships. Hence ports play a very critical role in the overall transportation infrastructure. If port activity is disrupted due to any reason, it will have a direct adverse impact on not only the other transportation functions but also the nation’s economy as a whole.This was amply demonstrated by the impact of the 1995 earthquake on Kobe port in Japan. Disasters know no boundaries. Disaster research too has no boundaries. The multidisciplinary nature of disaster research complicates holistic studies of disasters and also calls for awareness among researchers in diverse disciplines on current research trends across disciplines. To this end, we undertook a literature review in the critical area of disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports, which is not currently available.

===Plans we have read=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by adapting transportation systems to climate change.**

**Text: The United States federal government should invest in adapting its transportation infrastructure to climate change.**

**Text: The United States federal government should adapt its transportation systems to climate change.**
==1AC Blake== 
===Contention 1: Climate Change=== 

Climate change is undoubtedly occurring- multiple warrants
- Number of weather related disasters has quintupled
- Makes the formation of heat waves more likely
- Record drought conditions
- Increases tropical cyclone intensity
- More extreme heat waves
**Kolbert, 10/29** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Elizabeth Kolbert has been a staff writer for The New Yorker since 1999. Her 2005 New Yorker series on global warming, "The Climate of Man,” won a National Magazine Award and was extended into a book, Field Notes from a Catastrophe, which was published in 2006. Prior to joining the staff of The New Yorker, she was a political reporter for The New York Times. Elizabeth Kolbert is a graudate of the Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, "Watching Sandy, Ignoring Climate Change" on October 29, 2012 from www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/newsdesk/2012/10/watching-hurricane-sandy-ignoring-climate-change.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A couple of weeks ago, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Munich Re, one of the world’s largest reinsurance firms, issued a study titled “Severe Weather in North America.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> According to the [[@http://www.munichre.com/en/media_relations/press_releases/2012/2012_10_17_press_release.aspx|press release]] that accompanied the report, “</span>//Nowhere in the world is the rising number of natural catastrophes more evident than in North America.”//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The number of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what Munich Re refers to as “weather-related loss events,” and what the rest of us would probably call </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">weather-related disasters, has quintupled over the last three decades</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While many factors have contributed to this trend, including an increase in the number of people living in flood-prone areas, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the report identified global warming as one of the major culprits: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate change particularly affects formation of heat-waves, droughts, intense precipitation events, and in the long run most probably also tropical cyclone intensity.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Munich Re’s report was aimed at the firm’s clients—other insurance companies—and does not make compelling reading for a general audience. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">its appearance just two weeks ahead of Hurricane Sandy seems to lend it a peculiarly grisly relevance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Sandy has been called </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a “superstorm,” a “Frankenstorm,” a “[[@http://www.boston.com/news/weather/2012/10/27/frankenstorm-worse-than-sum-its-parts/nMeNogoedVtK3mXDGJ2foO/story.html|freakish and unprecedented monster]],” and possibly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“unique in the annals of American weather history</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” It has already killed sixty-five people in the Caribbean, and, although it’s too early to tell what its full impact will be as it churns up the East Coast, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">[[@http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-10-29/sandy-strengthens-as-hurricane-barrels-toward-new-jersey|loss estimates]] are topping six billion dollars</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As with any particular “weather-related loss event,” it’s impossible to attribute Sandy to climate change. However, it is possible to say that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the storm fits the general pattern in North America</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and indeed around the world, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">toward more extreme weather, a pattern that,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> increasingly, </span>//can be attributed to climate change//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Just a few weeks before the Munich Re report appeared, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">scientists at NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in New York, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">published [[@http://www.pnas.org/content/109/37/E2415.full.pdf+html|a study]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on the apparent increase in extreme heat waves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Extreme summertime heat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which just a few decades ago affected much less than one per cent of the earth’s surface, “now typically </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">covers about 10% of the land area</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” the paper observed. “It follows that we can state, with a high degree of confidence, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that extreme anomalies”—i.e., heat waves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—“such as those in Texas and Oklahoma in 2011 and Moscow in 2010 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">were a consequence of global warming because their likelihood in the absence of global warming was </span>//exceedingly small//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” It is worth noting that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">one of several forces fuelling Sandy is [[@http://www.climatecentral.org/news/hurricane-sandy-to-deliver-historic-blow-to-mid-atlantic-northeast-15176|much-higher-than-average sea-surface temperatures]] along the East Coast.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coming as it is just a week before Election Day, Sandy makes the fact that climate change has been entirely ignored during this campaign seem all the more grotesque. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In a year of record-breaking temperatures across the U.S., record drought conditions in the country’s corn belt, and now a record storm affecting the nation’s most populous cities,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> neither candidate found the issue to be worthy of discussion. Pressed about this finally the other day on MTV, President Obama called climate change a “critical issue” that he was “surprised” hadn’t come up during any of the debates, a response that was at once completely accurate and totally disingenuous. (As [[@http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/10/27/1100561/challenged-by-mtv-obama-says-he-is-surprised-by-his-own-climate-silence/|one commentator pointed out]], he might have brought up this “critical” issue on his own since “he is the friggin’ POTUS.”) It is, at this point, impossible to say what it will take for American politics to catch up to the reality of North American climate change. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">More super-storms, more heat waves, more multi-billion-dollar “weather-related loss events</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”? The one thing that can be said is that, whether or not our elected officials choose to acknowledge the obvious, we can expect, “with a high degree of confidence,” that all of these </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are coming</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s past the tipping point</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al 10</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// </span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 14PROGRESS REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION TASK FORCE - 2010 PART TWO. THE IMPORTANCE OF ADAPTATION</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Climate change is affecting many aspects of our society</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, our livelihoods, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and our environment. Communities across the Nation are experiencing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> climate change impacts, such as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">changes in average temperatures, more extreme weather events, and rising sea levels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.3 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Historically, societies and ecosystems have adjusted</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or adapted </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to natural variability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in climatic conditions. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">However, the pace and impacts of climate change are occurring outside the range of past experiences, rendering many of our current adaptive mechanisms insufficient</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In addition, climate change impacts do not act in isolation; rather, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">climate-related changes interact with and often magnify the impacts of existing non- climatic stressors. Decision-makers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> across the Nation </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">will need to take</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proactive </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">measures to better</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> understand and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">prepare for current and future changes in climate conditions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is scientific consensus that the Earth’s climate is changing due to increased concentrations of greenhouse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> gases (including carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.4,5,6 As a result, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">increased energy trapped in the atmosphere and the oceans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> due to these higher concentrations </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is already leading to impacts, including warmer average water and air temperatures </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Figure 1), in the United States and globally. The Obama Administration is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to minimize the future impacts of climate change. However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the climate impacts we are observing today will continue to increase</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least in the short-term, </span>//regardless of the degree to which greenhouse gas emissions are managed.//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> This is driven by</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> factors such as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the long-lived nature of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certain </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the absorption of heat by the Earth’s oceans.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Even if we reduce our emissions, global average temperatures are predicted to rise over the next 100 years (Figure 2).7 In the long-term, theability to manage greenhouse gas emissions and moderate or reduce atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases will affect the magnitude of the impacts to which we will need to adapt.8 Therefore, mitigation and adaptation are inextricably linked, and both are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change</span>//

//That disrupts all transportation infrastructure//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA ‘12</span>--<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html>]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Impacts on Roadways </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings and improved mobility from reduced snowfall and less-frequent winter storms since warmer winters may lead to reductions in snow and ice removal, as well as salting requirements. [1] [2</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">] Climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [1] [2</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">] Roadway damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Source: NASA (2005) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Exposure to flooding and extreme snow events also shortens the life expectancy of highways and roads. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The stress of water and snow may cause damage, requiring more frequent maintenance, repairs, and rebuilding. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Road infrastructure in coastal areas is particularly sensitive to more frequent and permanent flooding from sea level rise and storm surges. Approximately 60,000 miles of coastal roads in the United States are already exposed to flooding from coastal storms and high waves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Furthermore, major highways in coastal areas serve as critical evacuation routes. Evacuation routes must be protected from flooding and damage so they may be used for emergencies. [2] [3] In some locations, warmer temperatures are projected to cause more winter precipitation to fall as rain instead of snow. Winter flooding could occur more frequently, if the frozen ground cannot absorb precipitation. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Landslides and wash-outs could also occur more frequently, as saturated soils are exposed to more rainwater. Drought in areas such as the Southwest could increase the likelihood of wildfires that reduce visibility and threaten roads and infrastructure.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [1] [2] Impacts on Ice Roads </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Freezing temperatures are required for ice roads in Alaska. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">These are frozen routes used to connect northern communities, as well as the oil, gas, and mining industries. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The tundra beneath these frozen roads is fragile, so transportation is limited to periods when the road is frozen. Warming temperatures would reduce the number of days ice roads are open, limiting transportation access to these areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Impacts on Vehicles </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As temperatures increase, many types of vehicles can overheat, and tires will deteriorate more quickly. But milder winters, reductions in the number of cold days, delays in winter freezing, and earlier spring thaws may reduce cold-weather damage to vehicles. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1]Impacts on Railways </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Extreme heat can cause rails to buckle</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Source: Volpe National Transportation Systems Center </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">High temperatures cause rail tracks to expand and buckle. More frequent and severe heat waves may require track repairs or speed restrictions to avoid derailments.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [1] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Heavy precipitation could also lead to delays and disruption</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the June 2008 Midwest floods closed major east-west rail lines for several days. Tropical storms and hurricanes can also leave debris on railways, disrupting rail travel and freight transport.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [1] [2] Like roadways, coastal </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">railways and subways are subject to inundation from sea level rise and storm surges.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is particularly true in underground pathways and tunnels, which are often already below sea level. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increased flooding from heavy precipitation and storm surges could disrupt rail travel as well as freight operations. </span>//Damages from flooding may require rail lines and subway infrastructure to be rebuilt or raised in future expansion projects.//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [1] [2] Impacts on Air Transportation Infrastructure In addition to causing closures or delays, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">flooding may damage facilities, including airstrips</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Some of the busiest airports in the United States are located in low-lying coastal areas, making them particularly vulnerable to inundation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, many critical transportation infrastructure facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (including Newark and LaGuardia airports) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">lie within the range of current and projected 50-year coastal storm surges</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many airstrips in Alaska are built on permafrost. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Warmer temperatures would thaw permafrost and cause soils to settle, potentially damaging the foundation and structure of key infrastructure. Runways and airports may require rebuilding, relocation, or increased maintenance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [1] [2] Impacts on Ships and Sea Lanes Ships are sensitive to many factors, including the depth of a channel and the extent of sea ice. Increasing temperatures could reduce the amount of sea ice in many important shipping lanes, extending the shipping season. Warmer winters will likely lead to less snow and ice accumulation on vessels, decks, and rigging in marine transportation.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> In the Arctic, warmer temperatures </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">could also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">open up the possibility of a Northwest Passage, which </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">could reduce shipping times and distances</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, these new passages </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">also</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> provide a pathway for invasive species transport and survival. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1] [2] Shipping lanes experiencing sea level rise will be able to accommodate larger ships, reducing shipping costs. However, higher sea levels will mean lower clearance under waterway bridges. In inland waterways where water levels are expected to decline, as in the Great Lakes, ships could face weight restrictions, as channels become too shallow. [1] [2] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Changes in precipitation can affect shipping in many ways. Flooding could close shipping channels, and increased runoff from extreme precipitation events could cause silt and debris to build up, leading to shallower channels. Changes in precipitation patterns could also affect the rate at which sediments accumulate, which may also make existing channels shallower and less accessible.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In areas experiencing increasing drought, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">water levels could periodically decrease, limiting inland shipping on rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping. </span>


Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al 12</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In earlyJanuary 2009, a severe winter storm hit the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pacific Northwest (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this weather event was not</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">isolated case. During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08 (WSDOT, 2008). W</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hile we must be careful to distinguish individual extreme weather events, such as those above, from long-term trends in climate, consensus in the scientific community projects an increased frequency and intensity of major storms, temperature increases, and changes in seasonal precipitation as a very likely outcome of global climate change</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Patterns that today are considered “extreme” may instead become a new normal. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">very costly problem as our existing surface transportation system has been designed and constructed based upon historical climate trends</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Assumptions that have been used historically to design facilities and respond to weather-related “emergencies” may no longer work. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A transportation system built without planning for changing climate will likely experience a variety of costly impacts in terms of damage and traveler delay. Among these impacts are inundation of coastal roads from SLR; erosion of roadways and bridge supports from heavy precipitation and storms; increased road and rail maintenance due to flooding and temperature extremes; and travel delays due to weather events and more widespread wildfires</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (28 percent nationally), transportation was one of the early sectors to begin responding to the climate change threat, primarily through efforts to account for and reduce the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere (Center for Transportation and the Environment, 2008). Strategies involve a wide range of activities, including improvements in vehicle and fuel technologies, and land use planning and transportation operation improvements that reduce vehicle miles travelled and increase the overall efficiency of travel (Table 1). These activities are collectively referred to as climate mitigation (Cambridge Systematics, 2009). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recent studies indicate that climate change planning efforts conducted by governments have thus far overwhelmingly focused on mitigation strategies to reduce GHGs, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wheeler, 2008).</span>



===Contention 2: economy=== 
Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” [[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation is such an integral part of daily life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the United States that few pause to consider its importance. Yet </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Nation’s strong intermodal </span>//network of highways, public transit, rail, marine, and aviation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is central to our ability to work, go to school, enjoy leisure time, maintain our homes, and stay in touch with friends and family</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//U.S. businesses depend on reliable transportation services to receive materials and transport products to their customers; a robust transportation network is essential to the economy//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In short, a sound transportation system is vital to the Nation’s social and economic future. Transportation professionals – including planners, designers, engineers, financial specialists, ecologists, safety experts, and others – work hard to ensure that U.S. communities have access to safe and dependable transportation services. Given the ongoing importance of the Nation’s transportation system, it is appropriate to consider what effect climate change may have on this essential network. Through a regional case study of the central Gulf Coast, this report begins to examine the potential implications of climate change on transportation infrastructure, operations, and services. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Investments in transportation are substantial and result in infrastructure that lasts for decades. Transportation plans and designs should, therefore, be carefully considered and well informed by a range of factors, including consideration of climate variability and change.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Climate also affects the safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure and systems. This research investigates the potential impacts of climate variability and change on transportation, and it assesses how planners and managers may incorporate this information into their decisions to ensure a reliable and robust future transportation network. This report does not contain recommendations about specific facilities or adaptation strategies, but rather seeks to contribute to the information available so that States and local communities can make more informed decisions when planning for the future.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The climate models used to estimate temperature changes agree that it will be warmer in the future</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. According to the IPCC report, global average warming is expected to be about 0.4°C (0.72°F) during the next 20 years. Even if the concentrations of all greenhouse gases and aerosols had been stabilized at 2000 levels, warming of 0.2°C (0.36°F) would be expected during this period (IPCC, 2007). Over the longer term, the IPCC models project average global temperature increases ranging from 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 6.4°C (11.5°F) by the end of the 21st century, although climate responses in specific regions will vary. These projections are the result of reviewing a robust set of global climate models under a variety of future scenarios – using a range of assumptions for future economic activity and energy use – for the Earth as a whole. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The average increase in temperature may not be as important to the transportation community as the changes in extreme temperature, which also are expected to increase</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Over the last 50 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the frequency of cold days and nights has declined, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The number of days with temperature above</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 32°C (90°F) and 38°C (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">100°F) has been increasing since 1970</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as has the intensity and length of periods of drought.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The IPCC report finds that it is virtually certain that the next century will witness warmer and more frequent hot days and nights over most land areas (IPCC, 2007). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increasing temperatures have the potential to affect multiple modes of transportation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, primarily impacting surface transportation. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The transportation impacts mentioned most often in the literature included pavement damage; rail buckling; less lift and fuel efficiency for aircraft; and the implications of lower inland water levels, thawing permafrost, reduced ice cover on seaways, and an increase in vegetation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These are discussed in greater detail below:</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• </span>//Pavement damage//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – The quality of highway pavement was identified as a potential issue for temperate climates, where more extreme summer temperatures and/or more frequent freeze/thaw cycles may be experienced. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Extremely hot days, over an extended period of time, could lead to the rutting of highway pavement and the more rapid breakdown of asphalt seal binders, resulting in cracking, potholing, and bleeding. This, in turn, could damage the structural integrity of the road and/or cause the pavement to become more slippery when wet.Adaptation measures mentioned included more frequent maintenance, milling out ruts, and the laying of more heat resistant asphalt.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>//Rail buckling//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Railroads could encounter rail buckling more frequently in temperate climates that experience extremely hot temperatures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If unnoticed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rail buckling can result in derailment of trains</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Peterson (2008) noted, “Lower speeds and shorter trains, to shorten braking distance, and lighter loads to reduce track stress are operational impacts.” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adaptation measures included better monitoring of rail temperatures and ultimately more maintenance of the track, replacing it when needed.• Vegetation growth – The growing season for deciduous trees that shed their leaves may be extended, causing more slipperiness on railroads and roads and visual obstructions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Possible adaptation measures included better management of the leaf foliage and planting more low-maintenance vegetation along transportation corridors to act as buffers (Wooler, 2004).• </span>//Reductions in aircraft lift and// efficiency – Higher temperatures would reduce air density, decreasing both lift and the engine efficiency of aircraft. As a result, longer runways and/or more powerful airplanes would be required. However, one analyst projected that technical advances would minimize the need for runway redesign as aircraft become more powerful and efficient (Wooler, 2004). • Reduced water levels – Changes in water levels were discussed in relation to marine transport. Inland waterways such as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River could experience lower water levels due to increased temperatures<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and evaporation; these lower water levels would mean that ships and barges would not be able to carry as much weight. Adaptation measures included reducing cargo loads, designing vessels to require less draft, or dredging the water body to make it deeper</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">• Reduced ice cover – Reduced ice cover was generally considered a positive impact of increasing temperatures in the literature. For example, a study conducted by John D. Lindeberg and George M. Albercook, which was included in the Report of the Great Lakes Regional Assessment Group for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, stated, “the costs of additional dredging [due to lower water levels] could be partially mitigated by the benefits of additional shipping days on the [Great] Lakes caused by less persistent ice cover” (Sousounis, 2000, p. 41). Additionally, arctic sea passages could open; for example, the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment noted, “projected reductions in sea-ice extent are likely to improve access along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage” (Instanes et al., 2005, p. 934). However, negative environmental and security impacts also may result from reduced ice cover as well from as the increased level of shipping. These are discussed below in the subsection on indirect impacts (Section 1.3.6.).</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>//Thawing permafrost//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The implications of thawing permafrost for Arctic infrastructure receive considerable attention in the literature. Permafrost is the foundation upon which much of the Arctic’s infrastructure is built.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The literature consistently noted that as the permafrost thaws the infrastructure will become unstable – an effect being experienced today. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Roads, railways, and airstrips are all vulnerable to the thawing of permafrost.Adaptation measures vary depending on the amount of permafrost that underlies any given piece of infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The literature suggested that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">some assets will only need rehabilitation, other assets will need to be relocated, and different construction methods will need to be used, including the possibility of installing cooling mechanisms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. According to the Arctic Research Commission, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">roads, railways, and airstrips placed on ice-rich continuous permafrost will generally require relocation to well-drained natural foundations or replacement with substantially different construction methods</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (U.S. Arctic Research Commission Permafrost Task Force, 2003, p. 29).• Other – Other impacts of increasing temperatures included a reduction in ice loads on structures (such as bridges and piers), which could eventually allow them to be designed for less stress, and a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WTO and UNEP ’09</span> (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” [[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected to become </span>//more widespread and to intensify//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For example, </span>//even with small increases in average temperature//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the type, frequency and intensity of extreme weather – such as hurricanes, typhoons, floods, droughts, and storms – are projected to increase.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Th e distribution of these weather events, however, is expected to vary considerably among regions and countries, and impacts will depend to a large extent on the vulnerability of populations or ecosystems. Developing countries, and particularly the poorest and most marginalized populations within these countries, will generally be both the most adversely aff ected by the impacts of future climate change and the most vulnerable to its eff ects, because they are less able to adapt than developed countries and populations. In addition, climate change risks compound the other challenges which are already faced by these countries, including tackling poverty, improving health care, increasing food security and improving access to sources of energy. For instance, climate change is projected to lead to hundreds of millions of people having limited access to water supplies or facing inadequate water quality, which will, in turn, lead to greater health problems</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Although the impacts of climate change are specific to location and to the level of development, most sectors of the global economy are expected to be affected and these impacts will often have </span>//implications for trade//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>For example, three <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">trade-related areas are considered to be particularly vulnerable to climate change</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Agriculture is considered to be one of the sectors most vulnerable to climate change, and also represents a key sector for international trade. In low-latitude regions, where most developing countries are located, reductions of about 5 to 10 per cent in the yields of major cereal crops are projected even in the case of small temperature increases of around 1° C. Although it is expected that local temperature increases of between 1° C and 3° C would have benefi cial impacts on agricultural outputs in mid- to high-latitude regions, warming beyond this range will most likely result in increasingly negative impacts for these regions also. According to some studies, crop yields in some African countries could fall by up to 50 per cent by 2020, with net revenues from crops falling by as much as 90 per cent by 2100. Depending on the location, agriculture will also be prone to water scarcity due to loss of glacial meltwater and reduced rainfall or droughts. Tourism is another industry that may be particularly vulnerable to climate change, for example, through changes in snow cover, coastal degradation and extreme weather. Both the fi sheries and forestry sectors also risk being adversely impacted by climate change. Likewise, ix Part IV Part III Part II Part I there are expected to be major impacts on coastal ecosystems, including the disappearance of coral and the loss of marine biodiversity. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Finally, one of the clearest impacts will be on trade infrastructure and routes. The IPCC has identified port facilities, as well as buildings, roads, railways, airports and bridges, </span>//as being dangerously at risk of damage//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> from rising sea levels and the increased occurrence of instances of extreme weather, such as flooding and hurricanes. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, it is projected that changes in sea ice, particularly in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.</span>

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">–[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ][[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Then there are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the dolorous </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consequences of a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the stability of our economy, among other things</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, made it easier for us to run</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> huge budget </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Islamic terrorist affiliates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuingon their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there are shades of the 1930s, when globaltrade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ever more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now driven down by the global slowdown. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> heavily </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on foreign investment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and access to foreign markets. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Both will </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">now </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">be constricted</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>


Transportation infrastructure solves hegemony and trade
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AGC ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” [[http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It also is important to note that the federal programs for investing in highway and transit projects has traditionally been self-funded. Since the 1950s, highway users have, through a mixture of gas taxes and other use-related fees, provided all of the funds that go into the Highway Trust Fund. Until only recently all federal surface transportation investments had come from this self-funded Trust Fund. In other words, structured correctly, the federal surface transportation program does not have to cost anyone that doesn’t use the highway system a single penny. As important, there is a strong argument to be made for the fact that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the proper role of the federal government is to create and set conditions favorable to private sector job creation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, in an economy where the difference between success and failure is often measured by a company’s ability to deliver goods quickly and efficiently, maintaining transportation infrastructure is as important to the success of the private sector as are stable and low tax rates, minimal red tape and regulations and consistent and stable rule of law. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Officials in Washington also need to understand that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">allowing our transportation infrastructure to deteriorate will serve as an added tax on private citizens and the business community alike. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">That is because </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">added congestion, shipping delays and transportation uncertainty will raise commuting costs, the price of most retail and grocery goods and the cost of getting supplies and delivering products for most U.S. businesses. Investing in infrastructure is vital to our national economic security. </span>//America’s position and power in the world is directly dependent on its economic supremacy.// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> after all, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our national wealth that funds the country’s highly skilled Armed Forces, that allows us to direct global trade policy and that allows our currency to dominate global marketplaces. Without continued investments to support and nurture that economic vitality, America will surely be eclipsed by other, fast-growing competitors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like China, Brazil and/or India. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given that so much of the U.S. economy has evolved into a just-in-time model where as-needed deliveries are far more efficient than expensive warehousing and storage, maintaining our transportation infrastructure is vitally important to the health of our economy. Traffic congestion and aging roads already cost U.S. businesses $80 billion a year because of deferred infrastructure maintenance and our failure to keep pace with the growth of shipping and other traffic. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Allowing our transportation infrastructure to deteriorate will only further undermine our businesses and erode our national economic security. In other cases, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the federal government has an obligation to invest in infrastructure to avoid imposing costs on U.S. businesses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and imposing unfunded mandates on state and local governments. For example, local governments had long been responsible for paying to maintain and operate water systems. That meant only major cities and wealthy towns had access to modern water systems. Much of that changed when the federal government began mandating quality standards for drinking water and wastewater discharge through legislation like the Clean Water Act and Safe Drinking Water Act. These standards were in the best interest of the nation, ensuring protection of public health and environmental quality. By mandating quality standards, however, the federal government forces local governments to spend billions of dollars to upgrade equipment and comply with regulatory burdens. The federal government must not foist the burden of maintaining national standards onto local ratepayers alone. Given that it is in the federal interest to set water quality standards, then so too must it be in the federal interest to provide – primarily in the form of state revolving loan funds – financing help to operators so they can meet those standards.</span>


US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi ‘4</span> (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that </span><span class="TitleChar">strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider global objectives. Fighting terrorism, reducing poverty, improving health, integrating China and other countries in the global economy — all of these issues are linked</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in one way or another, </span><span class="TitleChar">to world trade. This is not to say that trade is the answer</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to all America's economic concerns; </span><span class="TitleChar">only that meaningful solutions are </span>//inconceivable//<span class="TitleChar"> without it. The world trading system is the linchpin of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> today's </span><span class="TitleChar">global order — underpinning its security as well as its prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A successful WTO is an example of how multilateralism can work. Conversely, </span><span class="TitleChar">if it weakens or fails, much else could fail with it</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is something which the US — at the epicentre of a more interdependent world — cannot afford to ignore. These priorities must continue to guide US policy — as they have done since the Second World War. America has been the main driving force behind eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations, including the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the WTO. The US — together with the EU — was instrumental in launching the latest Doha Round two years ago. Likewise, the recent initiative, spearheaded by Ambassador Zoellick, to re-energize the negotiations and move them towards a successful conclusion is yet another example of how essential the US is to the multilateral process — signalling that the US remains committed to further liberalization, that the Round is moving, and that other countries have a tangible reason to get on board. The reality is this: </span><span class="TitleChar">when the US leads the system can move forward; when it withdraws, the system drifts</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The fact that US leadership is essential, does not mean it is easy. As WTO rules have expanded, so too has as the complexity of the issues the WTO deals with — everything from agriculture and accounting, to tariffs and telecommunication. The WTO is also exerting huge gravitational pull on countries to join — and participate actively — in the system. The WTO now has 146 Members — up from just 23 in 1947 — and this could easily rise to 170 or more within a decade. Emerging powers like China, Brazil, and India rightly demand a greater say in an institution in which they have a growing stake. So too do a rising number of voices outside the system as well. More and more people recognize that the WTO matters. More non-state actors — businesses, unions, environmentalists, development NGOs — want the multilateral system to reflect their causes and concerns. A decade ago, few people had even heard of the GATT. Today the WTO is front page news. A more visible WTO has inevitably become a more politicized WTO. The sound and fury surrounding the WTO's recent Ministerial Meeting in Cancun — let alone Seattle — underline how challenging managing the WTO can be. But these challenges can be exaggerated. They exist precisely because so many countries have embraced a common vision. </span><span class="TitleChar">Countries the world over have turned to open trade</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — and a rules-based system — </span><span class="TitleChar">as the key to their growth and development</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. They agreed to the Doha Round because they believed their interests lay in freer trade, stronger rules, a more effective WTO. </span><span class="TitleChar">Even in Cancun the great debate was whether the multilateral trading system was moving fast and far enough — not whether it should be rolled back</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Indeed, it is critically important that we draw the right conclusions from Cancun — which are only now becoming clearer. The disappointment was that ministers were unable to reach agreement. The achievement was that they exposed the risks of failure, highlighted the need for North-South collaboration, and — after a period of introspection — acknowledged the inescapable logic of negotiation. Cancun showed that, if the challenges have increased, it is because the stakes are higher. The bigger challenge to American leadership comes from inside — not outside — the United States. In America's current debate about trade, jobs and globalization we have heard a lot about the costs of liberalization. We need to hear more about the opportunities. We need to be reminded of the advantages of America's openness and its trade with the world — about the economic growth tied to exports; the inflation-fighting role of imports, the innovative stimulus of global competition. We need to explain that freer trade works precisely because it involves positive change — better products, better job opportunities, better ways of doing things, better standards of living. While it is true that change can be threatening for people and societies, it is equally true that the vulnerable are not helped by resisting change — by putting up barriers and shutting out competition. They are helped by training, education, new and better opportunities that — with the right support policies — can flow from a globalized economy. The fact is that for every job in the US threatened by imports there is a growing number of high-paid, high skill jobs created by exports. Exports supported 7 million workers a decade ago; that number is approaching around 12 million today. And these new jobs — in aerospace, finance, information technology — pay 10 per cent more than the average American wage. We especially need to inject some clarity — and facts — into the current debate over the outsourcing of services jobs. Over the next decade, the US is projected to create an average of more than 2 million new services jobs a year — compared to roughly 200,000 services jobs that will be outsourced. I am well aware that this issue is the source of much anxiety in America today. Many Americans worry about the potential job losses that might arise from foreign competition in services sectors. But it’s worth remembering that concerns about the impact of foreign competition are not new. Many of the reservations people are expressing today are echoes of what we heard in the 1970s and 1980s. But people at that time didn’t fully appreciate the power of American ingenuity. Remarkable advances in technology and productivity laid the foundation for unprecedented job creation in the 1990s and there is no reason to doubt that this country, which has shown time and again such remarkable potential for competing in the global economy, will not soon embark again on such a burst of job-creation. America's openness to service-sector trade — combined with the high skills of its workforce — will lead to more growth, stronger industries, and a shift towards higher value-added, higher-paying employment. Conversely, </span><span class="TitleChar">closing the door</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to service trade </span><span class="TitleChar">is a strategy for killing jobs, not saving them</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Americans have never run from a challenge and have never been defeatist in the face of strong competition. Part of this challenge is to create the conditions for global growth and job creation here and around the world. I believe Americans realize what is at stake. </span><span class="TitleChar">The process of opening to global trade can be disruptive, but</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> they recognize that </span><span class="TitleChar">the US economy cannot grow and prosper any other way</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. They recognize the importance of finding global solutions to shared global problems. Besides, </span><span class="TitleChar">what is the alternative to the WTO? Some argue that the world's only superpower need not be tied down by the constraints of the multilateral system. They claim that US sovereignty is compromised by international rules, and that multilateral institutions limit rather than expand US influence</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Americans should be deeply sceptical about these claims. Almost none of the trade issues facing the US today are any easier to solve unilaterally, bilaterally or regionally. The reality is probably just the opposite. </span><span class="TitleChar">What sense does it make</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — for example — </span><span class="TitleChar">to negotiate e-commerce rules bilaterally</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">? Who would be interested in disciplining agricultural subsidies in a regional agreement but not globally? </span><span class="TitleChar">How can bilateral deals</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — even dozens of them — </span><span class="TitleChar">come close to matching the economic impact of agreeing to global free trade among 146 countries?Bilateral and regional deals can</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> sometimes be a </span><span class="TitleChar">complement to the multilateral system, but they can </span>//never be a substitute//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. There is a bigger danger. </span><span class="TitleChar">By treating some countries preferentially, bilateral and regional deals exclude others — fragmenting global trade and distorting the world </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">economy. Instead of liberalizing trade — and widening growth — </span><span class="TitleChar">they carve it up</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Worse, </span><span class="TitleChar">they have a </span>//domino effect//<span class="TitleChar">: bilateral deals inevitably beget more bilateral deals, as countries left outside are forced to seek their own preferential arrangements, or risk</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> further </span><span class="TitleChar">marginalization</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is precisely what we see happening today. There are already over two hundred bilateral and regional agreements in existence, and each month we hear of a new or expanded deal. There is a basic contradiction in the assumption that bilateral approaches serve to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based system. </span><span class="TitleChar">Even when intended to spur free trade, they can ultimately risk undermining it.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This is in no one's interest, least of all the United States. </span><span class="TitleChar">America led in the creation of the multilateral system</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> after 1945 precisely </span><span class="TitleChar">to avoid a return to hostile blocs</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — blocs </span><span class="TitleChar">that</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> had done so much to </span><span class="TitleChar">fuel interwar instability and conflict</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. America's vision, in the words of Cordell Hull, was that “enduring peace and the welfare of nations was indissolubly connected with the friendliness, fairness and freedom of world trade”. </span><span class="TitleChar">Trade would bind nations together, making another w ar unthinkable</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Non-discriminatory rules would prevent a return to preferential deals and closed alliances. </span><span class="TitleChar">A network of multilateral initiatives</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and organizations — the Marshal Plan, the IMF, the World Bank, and the GATT, now the WTO — </span><span class="TitleChar">would provide the institutional bedrock for the international rule of law</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, not power. Underpinning all this was the idea that freedom — free trade, free democracies, the free exchange of ideas — was essential to peace and prosperity, a more just world. It is a vision that has emerged pre-eminent a half century later. Trade has expanded twenty-fold since 1950. Millions in Asia, Latin America, and Africa are being lifted out of poverty, and millions more have new hope for the future. </span><span class="TitleChar">All the great powers — the US, Europe, Japan, India, China and soon Russia — are part of a rules-based multilateral trading system, greatly increasing the chances for world prosperity and peace</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. There is a growing realization that — in our interdependent world — sovereignty is constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.</span>

Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panzner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (2008, Michael, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finance and </span><span class="TitleChar">trade will inspire the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="TitleChar">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="TitleChar">and other nations to spew</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forth </span><span class="TitleChar">protectionist legislation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and </span><span class="TitleChar">protectionism will bring about</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ever more heated arguments and </span><span class="TitleChar">dangerous confrontations over</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> shared sources of oil, gas, and other </span><span class="TitleChar">key commodities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. </span><span class="TitleChar">Around the world, such tensions will give rise to </span>//full-scale military encounters,//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often </span><span class="TitleChar">with minimal provocation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. </span><span class="TitleChar">Turbulent conditions will encourage</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aggressive saber rattling and </span><span class="TitleChar">interdictions by rogue nations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> running amok. </span><span class="TitleChar">Age-old clashes will</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="TitleChar">take on a new, </span>more heated<span class="TitleChar"> sense of urgency. China will</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely </span><span class="TitleChar">assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, while </span><span class="TitleChar">Iran may</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> embark on overt </span><span class="TitleChar">coloniz</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ation of its neighbors in </span><span class="TitleChar">the Mideast. Israel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for its part, </span><span class="TitleChar">may look to draw</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a dwindling list of </span><span class="TitleChar">allies from around the world into</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a growing number of </span><span class="TitleChar">conflicts.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing </span><span class="TitleChar">cultural and religious differences will be transformed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from wars of words </span><span class="TitleChar">to battles </span>//soaked in blood//<span class="TitleChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, </span><span class="TitleChar">spurring</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the basest of human instincts and triggering </span><span class="TitleChar">genocidal acts.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ganapathy ‘11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCESVolume 2, No 2, 2011http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We are living in the age of disasters.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The more we advance, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the greater is the impact</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of each disaster on our society </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and the more it becomes necessary for us to build resilience into</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our communities and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">infrastructure.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We cannot avert most disasters. We can, however, be prepared for them to minimize their impact and return to normalcy within the shortest possible time after a disaster with the help of as little external resources as possible. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is what a resilient society strives for. Transportation be it road, rail, air or water – is the lifeline of our society. Serious disruption to transportation infrastructure can have catastrophic impact on the ability of the community, business and economy to recover from a disaster.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hence </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is of utmost importance for researchers to address the issue of building resilient transportation infrastructures. Today, more than three quarters of world trade by volume is carried on ships. Hence ports play a very critical role in the overall transportation infrastructure. If port activity is disrupted due to any reason, it will have a direct adverse impact on not only the other transportation functions but also the nation’s economy as a whole.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This was amply demonstrated by the impact of the 1995 earthquake on Kobe port in Japan. Disasters know no boundaries. Disaster research too has no boundaries. The multidisciplinary nature of disaster research complicates holistic studies of disasters and also calls for awareness among researchers in diverse disciplines on current research trends across disciplines. To this end, we undertook a literature review in the critical area of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports, which is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">currently available.</span>



===Contention 3: Heg=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Absent adaptation measures, climate change will impair airport operation </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRBNA, 11 Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]] ]</span>
**The potential //serious physical damage// to the //facilities and infrastructure of an airport// mainly result from the changes in precipitation, temperature, sea level, storm surge, and winds**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The risks include //flooding, heat buckle and other forms of expansion stress//, permafrost thaw buckle in northern regions, perimeter security breaches, and fuel contamination or spills from pipe ruptures<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As noted in the previous section, </span>**secondary effects of climate change may also cause new risks**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>such as extreme erosion, soil depletion, wild land fires, and facility damage from new species of animals and plants. Addressing potential physical damage from future climate change can generally be done •<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rebuilding, relocating, or abandoning shoreline facilities (e.g., seawalls, sewage treatment outfalls, and building and runway foundations) to accommodate expected future higher sea levels It would be unusual for these types of physical improvements to be carried out in isolation from the regular process of continuous planning, design, development, and maintenance that typically goes on at any airport. Climate change adaptation actions for the physical plant can be seen as one of many objectives to be incorporated into the master planning and asset management process. This approach ensures that solutions are thought through in an integrated and comprehensive manner, to minimize the costs of the improvements and maximize the efficiency of the development process over time. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The goal is to adapt to this new consideration of climate change in a way that still maximizes the utility of the often very long lived components of the airport infrastructure. </span>

Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of the Air Force ’01</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf]] )</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Air National Guard is a constitutionally unique military organization with roots dating back to the very beginnings of our country and its militia</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our State and Federal missions are accomplished by 88 flying wings and 1,600 support units located at 173 locations in all 50 states, 3 territories and the District of Columbia. The plant value of Air National Guard-managed real estate exceeds $12.6 billion with over 4,800 facilities comprising in excess of 32 million square feet. </span>//We partner with 67 civilian airports that provide access to an additional $4.4 billion in airfield infrastructure at a fraction of what it would cost us to own and operate it ourselves.// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These facilities support a Total Force capability that is unrivaled in the world today. While comprising roughly 34 percent of the Air Force’s mission capability</span>//, the Air National Guard specifically provides 100 percent of the Nation’s air defense and 45 percent of the theater airlift mission to name a few.//In addition to high visibility missions like last year’s flight to the South Pole to rescue Dr. Gerri Nielsen, the Air Guard is a significant player in the Aerospace Expeditionary Force.

And, flexible rapid reaction of US airpower is crucial to deterring WMD conflicts globally
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 98</span> – [Zalmay Khalizad and Ian Lesser, Senior Analysts at RAND Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, 1998, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]]]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">American air</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> and space </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">power will</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> continue to </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">remain critical for </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">conventional and unconventional</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> deterrence in Asia</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> potential for full-scale</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> conventional </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">war</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> potential </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">is </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">most </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">conspicuous on the Korean peninsula </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">and, to a lesser degree, in </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">politico-military </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">response because </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">(a) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">of the vast distances</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">possible </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">unavailability of naval assets </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">(d) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the heavy payload that can be carried</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The entire range of warfighting capability</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">are relevant </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Korea</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">n peninsula, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">China, and the Indian subcontinent are </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">already </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">arenas of WMD proliferation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. While emergent </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">nuclear</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">chemical and biological warfare threats will </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">progressively </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">become </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">future </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">problems</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">air</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> and space </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">power will function as a vital rapid reaction force </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">in a breaking crisis</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected //after conflicts have already broken out//. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of necessity</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> be </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the primary</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> instruments constituting the American </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">response</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Climate change increases freight cost</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rossetti ’02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Micheal A. Rossetti, Michael Rossetti is a Strategic Planner and Economist at the DOT Volpe Center. He has served as Executive Agent for the DOT/NSTC initiative on Enhanced Transportation Weather Services. He is member of the User Advisory Group of the US Weather Research Program, and of the OFCM Joint Action Group on Weather Information for Surface Transportation. He is the author of many DOT publications on transportation statistics, and technology development. Previously, he was employed at the Federal Communications Commission and National Research Council. Mr. Rossetti holds a M.A. degree from the Pennsylvania State University and an A.B. from Boston College, “The Potential Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, 2002, http://climate.dot.gov/documents/workshop1002/rossetti.pdf]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate models suggest a future warming of 0.2 - 0.3oC per decade.1 Sea levels are expected to rise at a rate of 4 to 10 cm per decade. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ancillary effects include changes in regional distributions of rainfall and soil moisture, and possibly more frequent and more intense storm systems</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. In recent years, the complexities of climate change and predictions of climate model outputs have introduced an additional measure of uncertainty for railroad operators. Weather events, climate oscillations, and climate trends hence affect railroad safety, including fatalities, injuries, and property damage. Through their interactions with maintenance, planning, operating efficiency, scheduling, and </span>//demand for freight and passenger services, weather and climate may also affect a firm’s balance sheet, and cash flow, capital investment decisions, and even competitive stance within the industry//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Increased freight cost uniquely impact the steel industry</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cooney ‘07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen Cooney, Congressional Research Service; Resources, Science, and Industry Division at IRL School at Cornell University, “Steel: Price and Policy Issues”, 10-31-2007, [[http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1492&context=key_workplace]]]</span>
//Rail transportation costs//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, seen as railways have consolidated and created more “capitive shippers,” have had a negative effect on industry, particularly in raising the costs and reducing the options for shipping inputs like scrap and delivering finished product to customers. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), while rail rates have declined over the long term, they increased by 9% in 2005, basically for all products across the board.90 The steel industry specifically reported increases of around a third in rail costs since 2003, and in some cases as high as 60%. “Transportation costs have escalated to the point that they now account for 15-20% of the total cost of producing steel.”</span>91

Stable supply of steel key to military infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TNS ‘08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July 1, 2008 Targeted News Service, “U.S. Steel Industry Critical To Keeping Us Free,”, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As we reflect on our country's independence this Fourth of July, we should pause to recognize those who fought for our freedom more than 230 years ago. But we should also recognize those who continue to keep our country free today: the men and women in uniform who offer their noble service in order to preserveAmerica's national security."Members of the United States Navy, Marine Corps, Army, Air Force and Coast Guard, both at home and overseas, risk their lives everyday to ensure that Americans continue to have the freedoms that our country is founded upon. It is their commitment to our country that has made America what it is today - a beacon for freedom and democracy, "Andrew G. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Sharkey</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, III</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, president and CEO, American Iron and Steel Institute </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(AISI</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">), said. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Our veterans represent the very best of America and</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the U.S. steel industry is continuously working to serve the military in their efforts to defend our nation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." Sharkey said</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> domestically-produced steel is important to "</span>//improve our military platforms//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//strengthen the nation's industrial base// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and </span>//harden our vital homeland security infrastructure//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">."Congressman </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter J.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Visclosky </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(D-IN),</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, has noted that "to ensure that our national defense needs will be met, it is crucial that we have a robust and vibrant domestic steel industry. It is poor policy to rely on foreign steel for our national security - instead, we need a long-term investment in domestically-produced, high-quality and reliable steel that will serve and strengthen our national security interests."Protecting the nation's vast infrastructure is essential to our homeland security. This became an issue </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in recent times</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> when it was discovered that substandard steel imported from China was being used by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to construct the border fence between the United States and Mexico</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, including Congressman Visclosky (D-IN), have worked to introduce legislation that will help strengthen the domestic steel industry in order to address issues of substandard steel imports. "AISI and its members greatly appreciate the Congressional Steel Caucus' support for the steel industry and their vigilance on behalf of America's national security," Sharkey said.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In addition, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">thousands of skilled men and women o</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">f the U.S. steel industry work to produce </span>//high quality, cost-competitive products//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that are used by the military in various applications ranging from </span>//aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines to Patriot and Stinger missiles//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Sharkey said</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>//Land based vehicles//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, such as the Bradley Fighting Vehicle, Abrams Tank and the family of Light Armored Vehicles, also utilize significant tonnage of steel plate per vehicle. The up-armored Humvee, in use by the U.S. Army, includes steel plating around the cab of the vehicle, offering improved protection against small arms fire and shrapnel. In fact, the steel plating underneath the cab is designed to survive up to eight pounds of explosives beneath the engine to four pounds in the cargo area. These critical applications </span>//require consistent, high quality domestic sources of supply. "//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We as a country need to make sure that our national defense needs will be met, making it critical for the United States to have a robust and vibrant domestic steel industry that will serve to strengthen our national security interests," </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sharkey noted.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Historically, American-made steel and specialty metals have been integral components of U.S. military strength and they continue in this role today. The Department of Defense's (DOD's) primary use of steel in weapons systems is for shipbuilding, but steel is also an important component in </span>//ammunition, aircraft parts, and aircraft engines.//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> DOD's steel requirements are satisfied by both integrated steel mills and EAF producer mills.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"With the desire never to be dependent on foreign nations for the steel used in military applications, it is critical that U.S. trade laws be defended, strengthened and enforced so that American-made steel can continue to play a vital role in our nation's security," Sharkey said. "On this Independence Day, let's pledge to work to uphold that ideal."</span>

Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zhang* and Shi **11-[**</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>**Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Free </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973)</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

===Plan Text=== 
Text: The United States federal government should invest in adapting its transportation infrastructure to climate change.

===Contention 4: Solvency=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adaptation solves – it’s feasible and it saves money in in the long run.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Interactions and relationships among geographicalregions and social sectors cannot be ignored</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Droughtin the Southwest and/or increases in water and air temperaturesmay reduce the efficiencies of power plants,just when more power is needed for air conditioning.Intense storms and floods can impact commerce, as theydid following Katrina and the great floods of 1993 onthe upper Mississippi River.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Conflicts inevitably arise between the needs of peopleand the needs of the ecosystem in which they live,and adaptation measures to manage the risks of climatechange must incorporate sound sustainability principles.If we plan and act responsibly, we may be able to “have our cake and eat it too</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”Sound Solutions for the 21st CenturyTransportation System</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We must not use the uncertainties and challenges of adapting to climate change as an excuse for inaction.The challenge to the engineering profession is to take into account the inherent uncertainties of climate science, as well as complex technological, social, economic, and environmental interrelationships, and develop sound solutions for transportation systems that will serve us until the end of the century.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A large bodyof work has been done on making decisions on issuesthat include great uncertainties. Scenario analyses, forexample, can provide “envelopes” of possible outcomes(e.g., best case/worst case scenarios and respective probabilities).</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To many, climate change is a distant worry, but developers of transportation systems work on a time horizon of 50 to 100 years for new and rehabilitated facilities. Thus they have no choice but to take into account the impacts of climate change. The marginal costs of accommodating climate change impacts in major systems will be dwarfed by the cost of retrofitting systems to meet these same needs decades hence.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To engineers, manyof the solutions for adaptation are fairly obvious—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">build robust, resilient systems, protect or move existing assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,and, when necessary, abandon indefensible facilities.Some adaptations to climate change are listedbelow:Sea Level Rise• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Build or enhance levees and dikes to resist higher sea levels and storm surges</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Elevate critical infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• Abandon or relocate coastal highways, rail lines,and bridges.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Provide good evacuation routes and operational plans.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Provide federal incentives to reduce the amount of development in at-risk coastal regions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.Heat Waves• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Support research on new, more heat-resistant materials for paving and bridge decks.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Replace and/or reconstruct highway and bridge expansion joints.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increase the length of airport runways to compensate for lower air densities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Revisit standards for construction workers exposed to high temperatures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Increased Storm Intensity• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Revise hydrologic storm and flood frequency maps.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Develop new design standards for hydraulic structures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Reinforce at-risk structures, particularly to protect against scouring of bridge piers.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Encourage better land-use planning for flood plains. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stronger Hurricanes• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Move critical infrastructure inland</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Reinforce and/or build more robust, resilient structures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Design for greater storm surges.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Strengthen and elevate port facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.Arctic Warming• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Identify areas and infrastructure that will be damaged by thawing permafrost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Develop new approaches to foundation design</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Reinforce, protect, or move seaside villages</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.Conclusions</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We can continue to debate the validity of climate science,but waiting for decades or longer for final “proof” would be foolhardy at best</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Fifty or 100 years from now</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the impact of increasing emissions of GHGs will be firmly established. If the projections of today’s climate scientists are correct and we have failed to take both mitigating and adaptive actions, then much damage will already have been done.The potential impacts of climate change on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the builtenvironment and the implications for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transportation infrastructure are sufficiently well defined for us to take action now. If this generation of engineers fails to act,c oastal highways and railroads will be under water,bridges will be unusable, tunnels will be periodically flooded, communities in the Midwest, Northeast, andSoutheast will be threatened by river flooding, people inthe Southwest will face increasing water shortages, andentire villages along the North Slope of Alaska will beswallowed by the sea</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if we incorporate climate change into the regular planning processes for transportation and other infrastructure, the marginal costs of building more robust,resilient systems can be readily accommodated. And wewill have met our obligations to future generations.</span>

Only federal leadership solves coordination
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith et al ’10</span> (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership” http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">many adaptations will occur at the state and local levels, the federal government is a critical player in an effective and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the United States. The federal government is significant for four primary reasons discussed in more detail in a later section: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it owns and manages a significant number of assets and natural resources; its programs affect the ability of others to adapt; it is an important provider of technical, fiscal, and other support</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and it plays a crucial role in dealing with impacts that cross geographic or jurisdictional boundaries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some municipalities, states, federal agencies, and others have already recognized the importance of addressing climate impacts by initiating climate adaptation plans, commissioning impact or vulnerability assessments, or enacting “no regrets” adaptation actions 2 that improve their communities’ climate resilience. Such efforts are making initial strides in tackling adaptation needs, but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a dedicated and appropriately focused national program is needed to address the multiple institutions, sectors, and levels of government involved in adaptation as well as the complexity, magnitude, and long time horizon of many climate impacts.</span>

Federal leadership key on adaptation policies
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al ‘10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted )// ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010 **)**</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Role of the Federal Government in Adapting to Climate Change </span>**T<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">he Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but it is only one part of a broader effort that must include multiple levels of government and private and non-governmental partners throughout the country. In particular</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, Federal leadership</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, guidance, information, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and support are vital to planning for and implementing adaptive actions. Because climate impacts span political boundaries, the Federal Government must respond in partnership with communities, Tribes, and states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – many of which are already beginning to implement adaptation measures. Effective adaptation requires that stakeholders in affected regions coordinate their responses to climate impacts on shared infrastructure and resources. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At the core of the Federal Government’s role should be a commitment to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> promote and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">implement best practices for adaptation, build greater public awareness and understanding of the importance of adaptation, and maintain dialogue</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and partnerships </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with stakeholders and decision makers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Government should continue to enhance services that enable informed decisions based on the best available science, and to work with the international community to improve knowledge sharing and coordinate adaptation investments. The Government should also consider how Federal policies may lead to unintended consequences that increase the Nation’s vulnerability to climate risks, thus making adaptation more costly and difficult. For example, certain policies may lead to increased development in the very areas that climate risks would suggest people avoid. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Federal Government also has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a wide range of</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Federal </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">services, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">operations,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> programs, assets (e.g., infrastructure, land), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and our national security. The Government must exercise</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">leadership </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">role </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to address climate impacts on Federal infrastructure interests and on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> natural, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cultural, and historic resources that it has statutory responsibilities to protect. The Federal Government should identify its most significant adaptation risk</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s and opportunities </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and incorporate response strategies into its planning</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to ensure that Federal resources are invested wisely and that its services and operations remain effective in the context of a changing climate. Importantly, the Federal Government must work in partnership with local, state, Tribal, and regional authorities as it develops and implements adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level. The Federal Government has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects Federal lands, including National Parks and forests</span>//


//Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DEFRA ‘11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs [[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]])</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The impact of climate change on infrastructure is an important economic, environmental and social issue, recognised by the Government’s National Infrastructure Plan </span>4. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recent </span>//impacts//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> from flooding and severe weather </span>//highlight the risks infrastructure could face and the significant economic damage//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> these types of events bring</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>//Effective, reliable infrastructure underpins economic activity, and failure to adapt, increases the possibility of service disruption and adverse economic impacts.// <span style="font-size: 7pt;">That is why Defra’s Business Plan 5 has a priority to support a strong and sustainable green economy resilient to climate change; adapting infrastructure forms a key part to realising this. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To reduce the risk infrastructure faces from climate change planned, but flexible, adaptation actions are required.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Therefore, it is about putting in place measures that enable the cost effective management of climate impacts to reduce the risk that climate change presents to infrastructure. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This includes integrating the impacts of climate change into decision making for new infrastructure and maintenance of existing infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is not about eliminating all risks from climate change or extreme weather. Potential Opportunities In a low carbon, climate resilient world, investment in climate resilient infrastructure will help enhance the attractiveness of the UK for inward investment, benefitting the economy, business and Government. Modelling by the OECD6 suggests that each £1 spent on climate change adaptation delivers four times its value in terms of potential damage avoided.</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adapting infrastructure to climate change presents opportunities if early action is taken and expertise developed.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This includes new skills and technologies as well as additional adaptation capacity to enable infrastructure to be adapted, such as new engineering practices or IT-based technology</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">All countries will need to increase their investment in their infrastructure to adjust to a more challenging climate</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. This is a potential opportunity; by developing adaptation expertise now, businesses should be well-placed to capitalise on opportunities in domestic and global markets. Potential economic opportunities • </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Development of new technologies and skills to be used domestically and exported. • Engineering and planning consultancy benefits, if we do this sooner and better than other countries, our engineering and consultancy organisations can be market leaders in adapting infrastructure. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• Development of new ICT-based technologies to aid climate resilient infrastructure.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> • Investment and insurance sector can promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.</span>

==1AC Lexington Semis== 
===Contention 1: Climate Change=== 

Climate change is undoubtedly occurring- multiple warrants
**Kolbert, 10/29** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Elizabeth Kolbert has been a staff writer for The New Yorker since 1999. Her 2005 New Yorker series on global warming, "The Climate of Man,” won a National Magazine Award and was extended into a book, Field Notes from a Catastrophe, which was published in 2006. Prior to joining the staff of The New Yorker, she was a political reporter for The New York Times. Elizabeth Kolbert is a graudate of the Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, "Watching Sandy, Ignoring Climate Change" on October 29, 2012 from www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/newsdesk/2012/10/watching-hurricane-sandy-ignoring-climate-change.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A couple of weeks ago, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Munich Re, one of the world’s largest reinsurance </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“with a high degree of confidence,” that all of these </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are coming</span>



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s past the tipping point</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al 10</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// </span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]] Published on October 5th, 2010)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 14PROGRESS REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION TASK FORCE - 2010 PART TWO</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and both are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change</span>//

//We are the carbon cliff which will doom earth into inhabitability—tech adaptation is the only feasible solution//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leahy 11/6</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Leahy is the lead international science and environment correspondent at IPS. He specializes in writing about climate change and biodiversity. He is a member of the International Federation of Journalists, the Society of Environmental Jouranlists and the International League of Conservation Writers. He pioneered Community Supported Environmental Journalism ‘</span>//Mankind Approaching Carbon Cliff, Report Warns’// Published on November 6th, 2012 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ipsnews.net/2012/11/mankind-approaching-carbon-cliff-report-warns/]] £Shen)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">UXBRIDGE, Canada, Nov 6 2012 (IPS) - A new international business </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">important is to understand how to achieve them. And then do it.”</span>
That disrupts all transportation infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA ‘12</span>--<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Impacts on Roadways </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping. </span>


Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al 12</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In earlyJanuary 2009, a severe winter storm hit the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pacific Northwest (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">PNW</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wheeler, 2008).</span>



===Contention 2: economy=== 
Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” [[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation is such an integral part of daily life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the United States that few </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WTO and UNEP ’09</span> (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” [[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.</span>

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">–[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ][[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Then there are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the dolorous </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consequences of a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">collapse of the world's financial architecture</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>


US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi ‘4</span> (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that </span><span class="TitleChar">strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.</span>
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panzner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (2008, Michael, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finance and </span><span class="TitleChar">trade will inspire the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The 1AC’s epistemological/methodological presentation is good—risk assessment and worst case scenario planning is necessary for best policymaking in the context of climate adaptation and avoids serial policy failure</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jacobs et al, ’10</span> [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In the </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">context of climate adaptation</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, assessing risk means identifying specific</span> (<span style="font-size: 11pt;">climaterelated) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
Fischhoff, 1996; NRC, 1996b; Patt and Dessai, 2005).

===Contention 3: Katrina=== 
Critical infrastructure is just as vulnerable as it was during Hurricane Katrina—the lack of resilience disproportionately impacts the socially vulnerable and victims of structural violence. Without the plan, Katrina will repeat itself again and again
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Renne et al, 08</span> (Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The objective of this study is to research how state departments of transportation (state </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//can be understood and adopted widely//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).</span>

Who lives and dies in a disaster is a social calculus, not just a random exception. Decades of immiseration and the undermining of disaster preparedness paved the way for mass death and institutionalized racism.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 6</span>(Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, “There’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster” March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is generally accepted among environmental geographers that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there is no such thing as a </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are more than anything dependent on one’s race, ethnicity and social class.</span>

The uneven distribution of vulnerability to disaster is a new modality of racialized state terror. It is the ultimate expression of a biopolitics of disposability—certain populations are marked for death. Complicity ensures creeping fascism.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 6</span> (Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, JSTOR)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane Katrina may have reversed the self-imposed silence of the media and public </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">where democracy has lost its claims”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2005, 122,124).</span>

The federal government is key to disaster preparedness—arguments against infrastructural expansion boil down to sacrificing parts of the population to benefit an elite few. Vote affirmative for politically responsible federal action.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 6</span> **(**Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, JSTOR)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a May 25, 2001 interview, Grover Norquist, head of the right</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">necessary for an adequate emergency response plan in the event of a flood</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The plan exposes the political logic behind so-called natural disasters, making visible the millions of people rendered disposable and sacrificed to infrastructure cuts.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 2006</span> (Jason, Jason Adams is a PhD Candidate in Political Science at the University of Hawaii in Honolulu, Hawaii, and in Media and Communication at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland. “Denaturalizing Natural Disaster,” http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=566)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the course of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the year leading up to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Hurricane </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Katrina</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> event, a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">equipmentality of being-in-the-world becomes perceptible.[4]</span>




===Plan Text=== 
Text: The United States federal government should invest in adapting its transportation infrastructure to climate change, including the creation of evacuation routes.

===Contention 4: Solvency=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adaptation solves – it’s feasible and it saves money in in the long run.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Interactions and relationships among geographicalregions and social sectors cannot be ignored</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Droughtin the Southwest </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">be readily accommodated. And wewill have met our obligations to future generations.</span>

==Disposability Aff- Harvard Round Robin== 
===Contention One: Sandy was just the beginning=== 
First, climate change is already happening and will continue into the foreseeable future. Katrina and Sandy showed how abandoned populations will continue to be devastated by the government abandonment of its infrastructure. These disasters have created a moment for political change that must be seized.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solnit, </span>writer of 13 books who lives in San Francisco. She has written on a variety of subjects including the environment, politics, place, and art. Masters Journalism UC Berkeley<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, in ‘12</span>
[Rebecca, “The Name of the Hurricane Is Climate Change”, The Nation, November 6, http://www.thenation.com/article/171058/name-hurricane-climate-change#]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The first horseman was named Al Qaeda in Manhattan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and it came as a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The climate has already changed. May we change to meet the challenges.</span>

Second, the national security state turned the American City into a site of military securitization, abandoning the funding for needed infrastructure and research to make urban areas less vulnerable to climate change.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Graham, Professor of Human Geography at Newcastle and noted vandal, 2005 [Stephen, “Cities Under Siege,” http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Graham/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whose ‘Security’ and Security From What?]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Secondly, and relatedly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Katrina disaster revealed the stark politics that surround ‘</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">there are other big things – even bigger things – than al Qaeda”.</span>

===Contention 2: disposability=== 
First, Those populations left to swim through flood-waters index the new grammar of human suffering: disposability. As infrastructure crumbles, the privilege of mobility is the privilege of life itself. Populations left behind become waste-products, one more bit of waste to clean up after a storm.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux</span>, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">in ‘12</span>
[Henry, “Hurricane Sandy in the Age of Disposability and Neoliberal Terror,” http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/13025-hurricane-sandy-in-the-age-of-disposability#XXXVI]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The winners in the disposable society circulate close to the top</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the power pyramid</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to reveal a set of underlying determinants, a grammar of human suffering</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

The willful lack of US disaster preparedness is a crucial aspect of interior colonization—so-called natural disasters are not acts of god, they are planned and calculated within the state itself because they provide an opportunity to map neoliberal economics onto racial geographies. Economies of anti-blackness coalesce in disaster, where the only currency is the fungible living corpses of spatially excluded populations. The state’s only function becomes militarizing these zones of sacrifice so that the struggle for survival is a criminalized justification for the destruction of all political hope. 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou 2010</span> (Anna, Associate Professor of Political Science at York University, “Necro (neo) colonization,” in International Relations and States of Exception, ed. by Biswas)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Twenty-one years after the Bhopal accident, in late August of 2005, </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">imperial con­ flicts/antagonisms and above all, thwart ontological antagonisms.</span>

Within economies of blackness certain bodies become by definition accidental bodies left to the whims of natural disasters and corporate exploitation. These processes of wearing down and destruction undergird the structure of white privilege in America. In spatially segregated death zones, the disaster has always already happened.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou 2010</span> (Anna, Associate Professor of Political Science at York University, “Necro (neo) colonization,” in International Relations and States of Exception, ed. by Biswas)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">New Orleans is some country "out there," proximate to the "Third World</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">had already begun to move in this direction.¶ (ibid.: 15)</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">How we articulate disasters is not just a momentary or exceptional question—it is crucial to the very definition of life and death under neo-colonial sovereignty. Unless we attack the underlying spatial logic of disposability, every coming disaster is another opportunity for neo-colonial powers to militarize certain populations marked for death, and invisibilize the process. Instead of lurching from one crisis to the next, we must recognize economies of blackness: the disaster is here, the disaster is now. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou 2010</span> (Anna, Associate Professor of Political Science at York University, “Necro (neo) colonization,” in International Relations and States of Exception, ed. by Biswas)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Cesaire was writing about the dismemberment of the black body that colonization (and not </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of politics</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, governmentalities, bodies, ecologies, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">life, and death</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

Mobility has become a zero-sum game—our security comes at the expense of those left behind. We know we have made it because we can watch them die. This derealization of certain lives is the condition of possibility for violence and unceasing murder against racially and sexually aberrant others.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou et al 2008</span> (Anna, Professor of PoliSci at York, Radical History Review, “Intimate Investments,”MUSE).
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To (re)consolidate itself, empire requires and solicits the production of certain </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">” whose life and death do not even merit mention</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or attention.17</span>

===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should invest in adapting its transportation infrastructure to climate change.


===Contention 3: The Politics of Disaster=== 
Ending zones of sacrifice reasserts the political voices of those lives currently rendered unlivable. The affirmative reinvestment in infrastructure based on notions of shared public space and the need for new democratic possibilities undermines the neoliberal consensus that certain lives can be calculated into irrelevance. 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 2012</span> (Henry, 12/3, Henry A. Giroux currently holds the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department. His most recent books include: Youth in a Suspect Society (Palgrave, 2009); Politics After Hope: Obama and the Crisis of Youth, Race, and Democracy (Paradigm, 2010); Hearts of Darkness: Torturing Children in the War on Terror (Paradigm, 2010); The Mouse that Roared: Disney and the End of Innocence (co-authored with Grace Pollock, Rowman and Littlefield, 2010); Zombie Politics and Culture in the Age of Casino Capitalism (Peter Lang, 2011); Henry Giroux on Critical Pedagogy (Continuum, 2011). His newest books: Education and the Crisis of Public Values (Peter Lang) and Twilight of the Social: Resurgent Publics in the Age of Disposability (Paradigm Publishers) will be published in 2012). Giroux is also a member of Truthout's Board of Directors. His web site is www.henryagiroux.com. “Hurricane Sandy in the Age of Disposability and Neoliberal Terror,” http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/13025-hurricane-sandy-in-the-age-of-disposability#XXXVI)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Within this regime of neoliberal violence, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the politics of disposability is shored up by </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">public spheres and governing structures necessary for a democracy to survive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

And the denial of adaptive infrastructure is a calculated denial of political participation itself—ad-hoc and militarized disaster response ensure disposable populations cannot radically organize. Only the plan allows community resistance to mass violence by upending the hierarchy of transportation mobility. 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 2006</span> (Jason, Jason Adams is a PhD Candidate in Political Science at the University of Hawaii in Honolulu, Hawaii, and in Media and Communication at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland. “Denaturalizing Natural Disaster,” http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=566)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is predictable then, that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the politically ineligible bodies that constituted "the city</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">smooth surfaces and high speeds that enable the sensation of "the nation</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">".</span>

Finally, we must interrupt the material and affective economies in which certain bodies—black, brown, and poor—are given over to death, their existential extermination always just waiting for actualization. The 1AC’s spatial rearticulation of disaster, redistribution of vulnerability, and ending of the cycle of continuous killing-by-sacrifice is a necessary starting point for any politics beyond necro-capitalism. 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou 2010</span> (Anna, Associate Professor of Political Science at York University, “Necro (neo) colonization,” in International Relations and States of Exception, ed. by Biswas)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">To return to the questions I posed at the beginning of the chapter: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, fantasies and visions of the world are now revolutionary</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and live on.</span>

=2AC Stuff= 
==2ac elections link turns== 
Public hates vulnerability
HNTB 12 HNTB Corporation is an employee-owned infrastructure firm serving public and private owners and contractors. With nearly a century of service, HNTB understands the life cycle of infrastructure and solves clients' most complex technical, financial and operational challenges. "Americans value highways and bridges as a national treasure," May 18, http://www.hntb.com/news-room/news-release/americans-value-highways-and-bridges-as-a-national-treasure)
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (May 18, 2012) – A new survey from HNTB Corporation finds two-thirds (66 percent) of Americans who intend to vote during this year's presidential election feel that a candidate's standing on American transportation infrastructure will influence their decision; more than one in five (22 percent) say this will be extremely influential on who they vote for. "Our highways, bridges and other transportation infrastructure are essential assets that support growth and investment in the U.S. economy," said Pete Rahn, HNTB leader national transportation practice. "People expect them to be resilient, reliable and safe." Clearly, Americans hold the nation's infrastructure in high regard. Nearly nine in ten (89 percent) Americans feel it’s important for the federal government to fund the maintenance and improvements of interstate highways. Yet, this infrastructure isn’t receiving the fiscal attention it deserves. Congress recently approved the ninth extension of transportation legislation that originally expired in 2009. The Highway Trust Fund – due to inflation, rising construction costs and increasingly fuel efficient vehicles – no longer collects enough money to support the U.S. surface transportation system, remaining solvent only through a series of infusions from federal general revenue funds. More than half of Americans (57 percent) believe the nation’s infrastructure is underfunded. The uncertainty over a long-term bill also is a challenge for state departments of transportation, which rely heavily on federal funding to support major highway and bridge programs, and creates ambiguity for planners and contractors who need the certainty of a long-term bill to commit to large, complex multiyear projects. "The absence of a long-term bill is hurting our economic competitiveness," said Rahn. "Recent efforts by the House and Senate to move discussions into a conference committee and hammer out potential details of a bill are a step in the right direction, but what’s really needed is a stable, long-term authorization that can adequately pay for our transportation system." Overall, 4 in 5 (80 percent) Americans would rather increase funding and improve roads and bridges than continue current funding levels and risk allowing our roads and bridges deteriorate.

And that outweighs spending concerns
Halsey ’12 (Ashley Halsey III is a staff writer for The Washington Post, Infrastructure projects need public support, transportation experts say, Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/experts-want-to-build-public-support-for-infrastructure-projects/2012/04/23/gIQAvmMXcT_story.html]])

The plan to energize public support was outlined Monday in a report by transportation experts brought together by the Miller Center at the University of Virginia. After a conference in November, the group concluded that most Americans are aware of the infrastructure crisis and support spending to address it. "Recent public-opinion surveys have found overwhelming support for the idea of infrastructure investment," the report said. "After the 'bridge to nowhere' controversies of recent years, the public has become sensitized to issues of pork-barrel spending and understandably demands to see a clear connection between federal expenditures, actual transportation needs, and economic benefits." Despite apprehension about wasteful spending, the report said, more than two-thirds of voters surveyed by the Rockefeller Foundation said infrastructure improvement was important and 80 percent said spending on it would create millions of jobs. The transportation group, co-chaired by former transportation secretaries Norman Y. Mineta and Samuel K. Skinner, compiled a comprehensive study on infrastructure in 2010. That report estimated that an additional $134 billion to $262 billion must be spent per year through 2035 to rebuild and improve roads, rail systems and air transportation.

==2AC States== 
This varies every debate depending on the funding mechanism/ what the cp text mandates the states do so if you have specific questions just ask

Feds key to court investors. Durable State fiat won’t cut it – investors don’t perceive States as trustworthy partners.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office: Report to Congressional Committees – “HIGH SPEED RAIL: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans” – June – http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10625.pdf</span>

Industry stakeholders<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> agreed that the time frame for building ……. local </span>//deficits continuing for//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> several </span>//years// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">into the future.40</span>

No solvency without private investors – quality, innovation, and long-term viability
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Geddes ‘11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">R. Richard Geddes – Associate Professor, Department of Policy Analysis and Management at Cornell University – Testimony before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure – “The Federal Railroad Administration’s High Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail Program: Mistakes and Lessons Learned” – December 6, 2011 – available at: http://www.aei.org/files/2011/12/19/-geddes-12612-testimony-on-high-speed-rail_145334197427.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The public PPP sponsor may have a goal other than…… </span>This results in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> lower costs and </span>improved service.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">State CP fails – states will neglect risks because they seem remote</span>**
Emily C. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schaeffer and </span>__**Andrew **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kashdan </span>__**(Dept of Economics at GMU and Assistant Prof of Econ at San Jose State U), 20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__**, “Earth, wind and fire! Federalism and incentive in natural disaster response.”, In The political economy of Hurricane Katrina and Community Rebound. Edited by Emily Chamlee-Wright, http://emilyskarbek.com/uploads/Chapter_10_-_Schaeffer_-_Final_Page_Proofs.pdf
Also relevant is the ‘intergovernmental paradox’, as it relates to therebuilding process
AND
a disaster), mitigation and preparedness receive littleattention compared to relief assistance.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FEMA is key to ALL disaster management agencies succeeding – it’s the federal 911</span>**
Timothy G. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bender</span>__**, PMP, Principal at the Reznick Group, March 16, 20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**, WHITE PAPER, Redefining Federal Disaster Management: Envisioning a New Office for Federal Disaster Recovery Management, www.reznickgroup.com/sites/reznickgroup.com/files/papers/rg_disaster_program_management_16mar11.pdf
The Federal Disaster 911While disasters like Hurricane Katrina grab the headlines, in reality
__AND__
distressed areas__. It is, in effect, the____federal disaster 911__.

FEMA solves flood disasters
Craig <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency), 4-6-11, Written Statement. “FEMA FY 2012 Budget Hearing” Before the House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, http://appropriations.house.gov/_files/040611femafugatefy12budgethearingtestimony.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By encouraging and supporting mitigation efforts, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">FEMA leads the nation in reducing the impact </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">addressing the highest priority engineering data needs, including coastal and levee areas.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC Politics</span>== 

Political capital theory isn’t true with this congress

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bouie 11</span>

(Jamelle, graduate of the U of Virginia, Writing Fellow for The American Prospect magazine, May 5, [prospect.org/csnc/blogs/tapped_archive?month=05&year=2011&base_name=political_capital)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">political capital isn’t</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">straightforward</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. As we saw at the beginning of </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">necessary</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> part of presidential success in Congress, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">but</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> it’s </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">far from sufficient</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Plan is overwhelmingy popular and bipartisan: conservatives support adaptation approaches because of economic impact of hurricanes

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keim 11/9/12</span> (Brandon, Wired science reporter, http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2012/11/new-climate-change-legislation/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A recent report by German insurance giant Munich Re put the U.S. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mayor Bloomberg’s own PlaNYC project is a blueprint for some of these approaches.</span>



Corporate support for plan

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hale 10/31/12</span> (Marcia, president of Building America’s Future, a national and bipartisan coalition dedicated to smart infrastructure investment and reform, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1012/83114.html#ixzz2C2LSaa00)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With the devastation brought about by Hurricane Sandy, it is even more important that </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which understand that this is about economic growth and jobs for countless Americans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





Corporate Support Key

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Politico 11/15/12</span> (http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1112/83954.html)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CEOs are the hot new ally in the fiscal cliff fight, and President Barack </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">blame if a deal doesn’t get done by the end of the year.</span>





<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Obama will demand a transportation bill in exchange for tax cuts.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bazinet 11/7/12</span> (Kenneth, Associate Editor of the Kiplinger Letter, http://www.kiplinger.com/columns/washington/archives/obama-agenda-after-reelection.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the fiscal front, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama will offer the Republicans another grand bargain </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that encompasses </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">revenue streams, either by way of tax increases or eliminating tax breaks.</span>



Opposition to disaster aid empirically crumbles WITHOUT horse trading—public popularity and high-ranking GOP members key

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roll Call 8/28/2012</span> (http://www.rollcall.com/news/disaster_relief_could_become_presidential_campaign_issue-217094-1.html)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Both sides are certain to focus on the immediate needs of residents as the storm </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">both sides to prevent having a protracted debate over federal spending in September.</span>



Zero uniqueness for your link- Obama already proposed $50 billion infrastructure spending

**Schmitt, 12/04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Angie Schmitt is a newspaper reporter turned planner/advocate who manages the Streetsblog Network; "Obama takes another Swing at $50 billion in infrastructure spending," on December 4, 2012 from dc.streetsblog.org/2012/12/04/obama-takes-another-swing-at-50-billion-in-infrastructure-spending/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama is pressing for infrastructure investment again </span>//as part of the fiscal cliff negotiations//

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the TIGER program. More than half would have gone to roads.</span>