[[@debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Bryant Wang|Home]][[toc]]

=SPS= 
==Solvency== 
===**1NC**=== 

**SPS advocates are fixated on technology – they wildly exaggerate the benefits and are so disconnected from real world economic and technological constraints that you should reject their claims**
**Day 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - space policy analyst and historian who lives in Northern Virginia (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)</span>

__You don’t have to spend …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the activists are excited about.</span>
==SBMD Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**Their evidence just says SPS //could// enable a ballistic missile defense system, not that it would:**
**BMD will never be built for a myriad of other reasons**
**Dolman and Cooper, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Within about 15 years of Arnold's … , before such a system became operational. </span>


**Multiple simple countermeasures negate space systems**
**Reiss****05****–**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> USAF Chief, Opposing Forces Division 505 Exercising Control Squadron (Maj Robert J. Jr., High Frontier, 2:1, p. 47) </span>

__Adversaries can conduct attacks against …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, process, and disseminate mission data.</span>

**Missile defense can’t deter – even one nuke could break through**
**Butt 10 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a staff scientist in the High-Energy Astrophysics Division at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. Previously, he worked on NASA's orbiting Chandra X-Ray Observatory Project and served as a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists' Global Security Program. He holds a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics. (Yousaf Butt, May 8 2010 “The myth of missile defense as a deterrent” <http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-myth-of-missile-defense-deterrent></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In other words, </span>__the posture …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">possible future threats from Iran.</span>

**And be highly skeptical about their claims of effectiveness – most “tests” disregard the countermeasures any country would use against us**
**Committee on Government Reform 01 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Special Investigations Division, U.S. House of Representatives, The Coyle Report: A Comprehensive Pentagon Study Criticizing the National Missile Defense Test Program, June 26) </span>

__By omitting flight tests with …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">terms of only rogue nations.”26 </span>

==Warming Advantage== 
===**1NC**=== 

**Long timeframe means intervening actors and tech solve**
**Michaels 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Cato senior fellow (Patrick, 2/2, Live with Climate Change, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=7502)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consequently, </span>__the best policy is … in the future, too__

**SPS can’t solve warming- less than 1% of the energy is received**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**Evans 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, //22:46 February 22, 200//9</span>**.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Solar power beamed from space within a decade? http://www.gizmag.com/solar-power-space-satellite/11064</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: right;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">February 23, 2009 The concept </span>__of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space-… </span>__received on the other island.__


**Warming is not anthropogenic**
*Because surface temperatures are higher than troposphere temperatures, warming is not anthropogenic and is derived from skewed data
**Taylor 12/28**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James Taylor is a contributor to Forbes Magazine, writing about energy and environment issues) Dec 28 2011 http://www.forbes.com/sites/jamestaylor/2011/12/28/climate-science-reaches-a-landmark-that-chills-global-warming-alarmists/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Climate Science Reaches a Landmark That Chills Global Warming Alarmists” czhang</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As 2011 comes to a close, climate science celebrates an important landmark. ... provided by satellite temperature sensors.</span>

**SSP collapses ozone**
**Howard, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – chapter head of the National Space Society </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1/30, George, “A Position Paper on Space Solar Power Satellite Technology”, National Space Society—Heart of America, http://www.nssheartofamerica.org/sspskc.html, AL]</span>

__Each carrier vehicle with a 100 ton …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the fuels and oxidizers used.</span>


**Ozone collapse results in runaway warming**
**Mikhailov 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (A.A. Mikhailov Yu.G. Shafer Institute of Cosmophysical Research and Aeronomy, 31 Lenin Ave., 677891 Yakutsk, Russia “Ozone Layer and the Formation of the Ozone Hole” http://arxiv.org/ftp/physics/papers/0401/0401135.pdf //Donnie)// </span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As it was reported in … , in the home and industrially. </span>//


//**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Turns case – leads to a ban on space travel</span>**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Foust 09** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor of Space Review Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, 6-15-2009, “Space and (or versus) the environment,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an op-ed in last … </span><span class="Underline">**overly restrictive regulation is high**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>//


//**Extinction outweighs**//
//**Nye, 86** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph S. 1986; Phd Political Science Harvard. University; Served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs; “Nuclear Ethics” pg. 45-46)</span>//

//__Is there any end that … both prudential and moral reasoning.__//


//**Technology solves the worst effects of warming—ozone levels prove**//
//**NIPCC ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, multi-national scientific coalition comprised of leading climate scientists, “Tropospheric Ozone Trends Around the World,” http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html, AM)</span>//

//__Logan__// __et al//. (2010) describe and discuss … greening of the earth__ __phenomenon.__


**Cloud changes are not accounted for and skew the data; CO2 emissions don’t affect warming**
**Clark, 12/20** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bryan Clark is a writer at National Geographic News Dec 20, 2011 “Climate change from co2 may not be as bad as predicted”) http://www.gizmag.com/climate-change-predictions/20769/ czhang</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a recent study funded … </span>__changes could somehow be figured in.__

==Cooperation Advantage== 
===**1NC**=== 

**China relations aren’t suffering from a lack of space policies; they are suffering because of massively more prominent issues such as US aggression, lack of diplomatic policymaking, trade disagreements, military developments such as AirSea, and oil and mineral reserves**
**Cunningham 11/17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 - Finian Cunningham is a Global Research Correspondent based in Belfast, Ireland. He was expelled from Bahrain for his critical journalism on 18 June 2011 (Finian, 11/17/2011, “Asia-Pacific: US Ramps Up Global War Agenda”, http://www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleId=27709)</span>

__Like a schoolyard bully, President Barack … and gas fields off Alaska.__

**Space cooperation with China fails – lack of mutual trust, technological disparity, China’s culture of secrecy and little incentives for information exchange.**
**Seedhouse 10,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace research scientist and Astronaut Training Consultant</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ Dr. Erik Seedhouse, “The New Space Race, China Vs. the United States,” p. 213 accessed June 23, 2011, BJM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transparency permits international counterparts to … </span>__remain slim to non-existent.__

**Cooperation with China in space doesn’t translate to better relations on Earth.**
**Seedhouse, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Aerospace research scientist and Astronaut Training Consultant, [ Dr. Erik Seedhouse, “The New Space Race, China Vs. the United States,” p. 212 accessed June 23, 2011, BJM]</span>

__One suggestion made by analysts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__diplomatic progress always comes first.__

**No impact to diseases**
**Posner 2005** (Richard A., Judge U.S. Court of Appeals 7th Circuit, Professor Chicago School of Law, January 1, 2005, Skeptic, Altadena, CA, Catastrophe: Risk and Response, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html#abstract)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yet the fact </span>__that Homo …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">pathogen than smallpox ever was.</span>
=Environmental Monitoring= 
==**Solvency**== 
===**1NC**=== 
**Squo solves**
**Carreau 11** – writer for on space (Mark, October 13, “NPP Kicks Off New Earth Observation Era”, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/10/13/11.xml&headline=NPP%20Kicks%20Off%20New%20Earth%20Observation%20Era, WSX)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HOUSTON —</span> __The U.S. is preparing to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weather Satellite System. </span>

**Policies won’t happen even with more information: EPA battles and GOP ignores science**
**NYT 8/17 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">New York Times John M. Broder: reporter for New York Times, “ Bashing E.P.A. Is New Theme in G.O.P. Race” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/18/us/politics/18epa.html?_r=1]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__The Environmental Protection Agency …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the governor’s war on the E.P.A.” </span>


<span class="Underline">**US government can’t interpret data: there’s too much and policymakers don’t care**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH)</span>

<span class="Underline">iNAdequATe dATA iNTerPreTATioN The U.S. government, … has already paid to collect. </span>


==Warming Advantage== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1NC</span>=== 

**Can’t solve warming: GOP primaries prove that emissions cuts are a political firestorm**
**NYT 8/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">New York Times John M. Broder: reporter for New York Times, “ Bashing E.P.A. Is New Theme in G.O.P. Race” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/18/us/politics/18epa.html?_r=1]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__The Environmental Protection Agency …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the governor’s war on the E.P.A.” </span>

**Can’t solve climate change: requires international coordination which will be impossible**
**Tatalović 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Mićo, analyst for SciDev.net, “ Climate data-sharing 'will be long, expensive process'” Novermber 10, 2010, [[http://www.scidev.net/en/news/climate-data-sharing-will-be-long-expensive-process-.html]] NEH) </span>

__Persuading nations to release data …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and so cannot be shared. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Warming impact exaggerated: flawed models and adaptation solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**IBT** **7/29**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, International Buisness Times using data collected in a NASA peer reviewed study by professors Roy W. Spencer * and William D. Braswell, “ Global Warming Doomsters' Theories Wrong, Says NASA Study” [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/189147/20110729/global-warming-nasa-climate-change-ipcc-un-intergovernmental-panel-on-climate-change-satellite-date.htm]] NEH)</span>

<span class="Underline">Global warming proponents can catch … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. </span>
== == 
=Planetary Defense= 
===**Impact Framing**=== 
===**1NC**=== 

**Mandelbaum says that war can still happen**
**Mandelbaum 99**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 8pt;">Mandelbaum 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, February 25, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/|http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, let me say … , haltingly but increasingly, like that.</span>


**War will escalate – high alert guarantees**
**Phillips 2k**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DR Alan </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 8pt;">Phillips</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Oct. </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 8pt;">2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.peace.caInuclearwinterrevisitedhtm]]</span>

<span class="underline0">**With thousands of** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rocket-launched </span><span class="underline0">**… and disease, in a radioactive environment.**</span>
=== === 
===2NC=== 

**New sources and models all forecast extinction—none of their indicts apply**
**Mosher 2011** (2/25, Dave, Wired Science, “How one nuclear skirmish could wreck the planet”, [[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2011/02/nuclear-war-climate-change/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+wiredscience+(Blog+-+Wired+Science)]], WEA)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__Even a small nuclear exchange …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">are also very susceptible to UV.</span>


**Any nuclear war has multiple scenarios for extinction: nuclear winter causing ice age like temperatures resulting in massive famine, 70 percent of the ozone eliminated, ecosystem collapse, phytoplankton, chemical agents, and fallout**
<span class="Underline">**Starr 9** – Nuclear Engineer (Steven, Medical technologist “Climate Effects of Nuclear War” //Peace Magazine//, Jul-Sep 09, pg 6)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How would this happen? </span>__Nuclear … increases in harmful ultraviolet radiation.__ 


**Recent studies say nuke war causes extinction tons of ways—this does not link to their indicts**
**Robock, 08** (Alan, professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction. “Nuclear winter,” entry in The Encyclopedia of Earth. 7-31-08. http://www.eoearth.org/article/Nuclear_winter)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">There are several wrong impressions … could not have been prevented.</span>

==NEOs== 
===1NC=== 

**Already met NASAs goal of 90% on NEO detection**
**NASA 9/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2011 (“NASA Space Telescope Finds Fewer Asteroids Near Earth,” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=34820)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- New observations by NASA's … impact in the wrong place. </span>


**Earth is ready for an asteroid threat: international cooperation now**
**SpaceDaily.com 9/1 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Asteroid Impact on Earth: Experts Review Global Response and Mitigation Steps” </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Asteroid_Impact_on_Earth_Experts_Review_Global_Response_and_Mitigation_Steps_999.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A workshop has brought together </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a hazardous asteroid down the road." </span>


**NASA’s asteroid research is biased to earn more funding and ignores key science.**
**David 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Director of Research for the National Commission on Space [Leonard David, research associate for Secure World Foundation, former consultant to NASA, former Director of Research for the National Commission on Space, and Aerospace Journalist of the Year; “Fair Warning, Deadly Response;” published in Ad Astra (official journal of the National Space Society), Vol. 19, Number 3, 2007; [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume19/david2.html]];]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fact-Finding Appraisal. </span>__Last year …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">stronger the deflection, the better. </span>


**The “any risk” logic creates policy paralysis: prefer probability over magnitude**
**MESKILL 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, [[http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tom </span>__Friedman's piece__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> today in … </span>__(just barely) to take action__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==ET== 
===1NC=== 

**ETI will not be interested in expansion** 
**Goldman et al. 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman (… ? A scenario analysis,” __Acta Astronautica__ 68 (2011) 2114-2129//Bwang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under what conditions might ETI … resources before their collapse occurs. Pg. 2122-2123</span>


**No empirical data or support for their args - You should evaluate their impact evidence with a great deal of scepticism** 
**Goldman et al. 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman (… ? A scenario analysis,” __Acta Astronautica__ 68 (2011) 2114-2129//Bwang]</span>

__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n additional </span>__caveat to our …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from our contact with them. Pg. 2127 </span>


**Astronomical distance prevents interstellar wars** 
**Goldman et al. 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman (… ? A scenario analysis,” __Acta Astronautica__ 68 (2011) 2114-2129//Bwang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communication via electromagnetic radiation is … contact with and affect humanity. Pg. 2116</span>

=Space BMD= 
==Solvency== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Current ground BMD solves rogue states but no form of SBMD can solve for Russia or China</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kleinberg 11,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Howard, Former research analyst at the George C. Marshall Institute, “A Global Missile Defense 'networK': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” March 1, 2011 http://periodicals.faqs.org/201103/2305177921.html //ACS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">"Victory will smile upon … a space-based laser weapons capability.</span>

==Indo-Pak War== 
===1NC=== 

**Deterrence**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Tellis 2</span>** (Ashley, Foreign Policy Research Institute, Orbis, Winter, p. 24-5)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the final analysis,</span>this … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the greater </span><span class="StyleUnderlineChar9pt2">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">South Asia</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">n region</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Economics**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Tellis 2</span>** (Ashley, Foreign Policy Research Institute, Orbis, Winter, p. 19)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In any event, </span><span class="StyleUnderlineChar9pt2">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">saving … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">competitors and the United States.</span>

==Proliferation== 
===1NC=== 

**Their impact claims are based on a flawed analysis**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Asal and Beardsley 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—professors of political science (Victor Asal and Kyle Beadsley, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, Vol 44, No. 2, March 2007, Journal of peace research, pp. 139-155, JSTOR, ZBurdette)</span>

__The__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">negative </span>__impact of proliferation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__be dismissed as ‘Nuclear Apartheid’.__


**Proliferation will be slow and will not cause instability or terrorism -- their impacts are fabricated as the result of political and economically motivated scaremongering.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Steve </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">Kidd</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, June 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">2010</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. Head of Strategy & Research at the World Nuclear Association, where he has worked since 1995 [when it was the Uranium Institute]. (“Nuclear proliferation risk - is it vastly overrated?” June 8, 2010 Nuclear Engineering International, Lexis, Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A significant amount of media … choose to acquire nuclear weapons. </span>


**Prolif decreases war.**
**Asal and Beardsley 7**—professors of political science (Victor Asal and Kyle Beadsley, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, Vol 44, No. 2, March 2007, Journal of peace research, pp. 139-155, JSTOR, ZBurdette)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Model 1 in Table IV … </span>__involved in the conflict increases<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">.</span>__