[[toc]]
=AIP Turn= 

**TURN—AIP forces airports into dependency onto federal contracts—prevents airports from adapting to congestion**
**Poole and Butler, ’98** [December 1998, Robert W. Poole Jr., and Viggo Butler, “Airline Deregulation: The Unfinished Revolution”, RPPI, Volume 22, No. 1]

But the changes in service that resulted [...]flow-control system for all the others.

=NextGen Turn= 

**TURN—NextGen increases vulnerability to cyber terrorism—that would kill the airline industry and make their impacts inevitable. And the squo solves**
Paul **Marks**, September 12, **2011**. “Air Traffic System Vulnerable to Cyber Attack.”New Scientist—magazine. Paul Marks is a writer for the magazine. Magazine Issue 2829. http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg21128295.600-air-traffic-system-vulnerable-to-cyber-attack.html

A next-generation global air traffic [...]far refused to make public, citing security concerns.

**Retaliation causes extinction**
**Fritz, ‘09** [2009, Jason Fritz has a Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]

This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism[...]for compromising command and control centres directly.

=Terrorism Good= 

**Turn – NMD Deployment**

**a. Future terrorist attacks will spur the rapid development and deployment of NMD**
**Spring, ’01** 
[Research Fellow in National Security Policy in the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation (Baker, “Talking Points: Terrorist Attack on America Confirms the Growing Need for Missile Defense”, September 20, 2001, Backgrounder #1477, [[http://www.heritage.org/resea rch/m%20issiledefense/bg1477.cfm|http://www.heritage.org/resea rch/m issiledefense/bg1477.cfm]])]

Following the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York […]National Missile Defense Act (P.L. 106-38).

**b. Missile defense is key to everything – Solves nuclear, chemical, and biological attacks, pre-emptive WMD strikes on America, the economy, hegemony, soft power, US military adventurism, and world stability**
**Lambakis, 07** 
[Fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, A Leading International Journal of Global Affairs and Strategic Studies, National Security and International Affairs Analyst Specializing in Space Power and Policy Studies, (Steven, “Missile Defense From Space”, 2-17-07, [[@http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/02/missile_defense_from_space.html]])]

The ballistic missile threat to the United States, […] would also be a strategically prudent and morally desirable step to take.