[[toc]]
=Yellow K= 

**Ben and I advocate a critical interrogation for the racial and economic logic of disposability within American transportation policies. Through the essence of the Asian American, "Model Minority" and "Neo-racist" perspectives**.

**Challenging and recognizing this form of racism is key to A) Spurring more effective movements against race and B) Tackling the institutional discrimination of the Southeast Asian**
**Balibar** teaches philosophy @ the University of Paris **2k5**
Etienne-; RACE, NATION, CLASS: Ambiguous identities; published 1988 reprinted 1992,1993,1995,1996,1998,2000,2002,2005; p. 20-21.

We can now turn our attention to ‘neo-racism’. [...] what P.A. Taguieff has rightly called a differentialist racism.

**The first net benefit is "Collateral Damage" the failure to focus on Southeast Asians in racial discourse independently turns Southeast Asians into discursive "Collateral Damage"**
**Tang** Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago **2000**
Eric-; Collateral Damage: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States; Social Text 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.58-59.

Following my discussion of [...]-reveals that there is no such thing as the unintended.

**The second net benefit is the Myth of the Model Minority**
**Countering the discrimination against the Asian American is a pre-requisite to any solvency: The Myth of the Model Minority**
**Thrupkaew** Prospect Senior Correspondent **2k2**
Noy-;The Myth of the Model Minority; The American Prospects; April 7;
[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority]]

The model-minority myth has [...] specific needs and contributions of our communities."

=Race K= 

**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.**
**Brenman ‘7** [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]

Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to […], and regressive taxes.

**The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.**
**We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE**
**DR. CRENSHAW** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. **1997** Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION

This analysis of Helms’ opening […]because they mask its existence.

**Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination**
**Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4** [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]

Transportation systems do not […]transportation apartheid has been created.

**The reification of hegemony and dedication to international systems perpetuates colonialism and genocide**
**Levene, 2000** (Mark, 11.2.2000, U Warwick, Why is the Twentieth Century the Century of Genocide?)

[But why should this be? The answer, on one […] what exactly is it that we are discussing?

**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.**
**Memmi ’00** [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]

The struggle against racism will […]True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

=Cap K= 

**Capitalism turns everything into commodities to be exploited. The continual drive for growth destroys the earth and makes life meaningless.**
**Magdoff, 11**
Fred, professor emeritus of plant and soil science at the University of Vermont, 2011, What Every Environmentalist Needs to Know about Capitalism: A Citizen's Guide to Capitalism and the Environment. New York: Monthly Review, 2011

Today, our Mother Earth is wounded […]nature and respect for life.

**Resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible**
**Zizek and Daly, 04**
Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16

For Zizek it is imperative that […] in an otherwise sound matrix.>

**The alternative is a personal rejection of capitalism.**
**Holloway, 05**
John, author of “How to Change the World with Taking Power” and his numerous works on the Zapatistas, Holloway edited Global Capital, National State and the Politics of Money and Post-Fordism and Social Form: A Marxist Debate on the Post-Fordist State (1992), Professor at the University of Edinburgh and currently teaches at the Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences at the Autonomous University of Puebla, August 15th, 2005, John Holloway presented these at the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, [[http://www.chtodelat.org/index.php?Itemid=124&id=214&option=com_content&task=view]]

In thinking about this, we have to start from […]that we want to create.

=Afropessimism K= 

**Focusing on the manifestations of racial violence gets coopted into the maintenance of order—we must question the structure of white supremacy prior to the examples of the violence it produces**
**Martinot and Sexton, ’03** [2003, Steve Martinot is a profesor at San Francisco State University and Jared Sexton has a PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” [[http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm]]]

The foundations of US white supremacy are far from stable. Owing to the […]produced in the crucible of its ritualistic violence.

**White supremacy is a global modality of genocidal violence – Slavery may have ended in name, but its operational logic continues to fester. Reformist measures simply provide fuel for Whiteness**
**Rodriguez, ’11** [2011, Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “The Black Presidential Non-Slave: Genocide and the Present Tense of Racial Slavery”, Political Power and Social Theory Vol. 22, pp. 38-43]

To crystallize what I hope to be the potentially useful […] with the overwhelming consent of white/multiculturalist civil society.

**Vote negative to occupy as an act of radical disidentification with the state.**
**Our argument is a prior question—the debate is about method—the attempt to focus on the politics of the state cedes agency and corrupts movements and should be rejected**
**Hedges, ’10-24** [Chris Hedges, Fellow at The Nation Institute, F. Ross Johnson-Connaught Distinguished Visitor in American Studies at the Centre for the Study of the United States at The University of Toronto, long-time foreign correspondent for the New York Times where he was part of a team of reporters that won a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of the war on terrorism, recipient of the Amnesty International Global Award for Human Rights Journalism, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Colgate University and a Master of Divinity from Harvard Divinity School, 2011, “Occupiers Have to Convince the Other 99 Percent”, [[http://www.truth-out.org/occupiers-have-convince-other-99-percent/1319466407]]]

The power of the Occupy Wall Street movement is that it has not […] us hope, the toppling of the corporate state.