[[toc]]
=Race= 
==1NC Shell== 
Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination
Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4 [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]
Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned·~
AND
economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created.

The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.
DR. CRENSHAW Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997
Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how the ideology of white privilege operates through
AND
of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.

Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.
MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.
==1NC Shell Space== 
The ethic of the affirmative is a bad one—voting to prioritize space exploration in the face of people suffering daily is a bad ethical choice
Yost, ‘10 [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at [[http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]]]
The White House has announced plans to host a conference in Florida on April 15
AND
time to recognize that mankind has higher priorities than planting flags on planets.

The 1AC’s ignorance of social justice issues is based on a colorblind vision of the future that renders issues of race irrelevant
Bould , ’11 – Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies (Mark Bould, Senior Lecturer in Film Studies at the University of the West of England, Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies, Co-Editor of [[http://www.liverpool-unipress.co.uk/html/publication.asp?idProduct=3838|Science Fiction Film and Television Journal]], Consultant editor of [[http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/|Science Fiction Studies]], Advisory editor of [[http://www.thehorrorjournal.com/|The Horror Journal: The International Journal of Horror Studies]], Associate editor of [[http://www.historicalmaterialism.net/|Historical Materialism: Research in Critical Marxist Theory]], “The Ships Landed Long Ago: Afrofuturism and Black SF”, 2011, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4241520]], 171-172)
From the 1950s onwards, sf in the US magazine and paperback tradition postulated and
AND
(1955-56), and the desegregation of Little Rock (1957).

Racism must be rejected through the ballot – moral obligation must come first
MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

==2NC Overview== 
Try or Die – Isolation of racially oppressed groups leads to the TERMINATION OF HUMANITY.
Marable Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies 1984
Manning-Professor of History @ Columbia University; “Speaking Truth to Power: Essays on Race, Resistance and Radicalism; p. 198-199.
Black Americans also comprehend that peace is not the absence of conflict. As long
AND
the electoral mainstream, the results may be the termination of humanity itself.

Structural positions of racial power is the root cause of ableism – technologies of violence and surveillance used against people with disabilities originated in Eurocentric thought
Smith ‘4 [Phil, Executive Director, Vermont Developmental Disabilities Council, “Whiteness, Normal Theory, and Disability Studies”, Disability Studies Quarterly Spring 2004, Volume 24, No. 2, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/491/668]
This point, that ableism is created by those who define themselves as able-
AND
broad disability studies approach if either whiteness or ability is to be reconceptualized.

==2NC HSR Link== 
Even at the level of implementation, High Speed Rail is shot through with racist ideologies
Molina ’10 [December 9th, 2010, Alejandra, Register staff writer, 11:39 am, Orange County Register]
Civil rights advocates are asking the federal government to cease funding for California’s planned high
AND
businesses that may hire some of the folks that traditional businesses do not.”


==2NC Turns Ableism== 
Whiteness is the root cause of ableism – technologies of violence and surveillance used against people with disabilities originated in Eurocentric thought
Smith ‘4 [Phil, Executive Director, Vermont Developmental Disabilities Council, “Whiteness, Normal Theory, and Disability Studies”, Disability Studies Quarterly Spring 2004, Volume 24, No. 2, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/491/668]

This point, that ableism is created by those who define themselves as able-
AND
a broad disability studies approach if either whiteness or ability is to be reconceptualized

=Other= 
==Ableism== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The affirmative’s use of “__” represents ableist language – vote negative to fulfill your obligation an educator and reject it
Ben-Moshe, ’06 [Liat Ben-Moshe, Spring 2006, Volume 26, No. 2, Disability Studies Quarterly, “Infusing Disability in the Curriculum: The Case of Saramago's Blindness”, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/688/865]
Using blindness as metaphor in novels reinforces a precarious duality: 1) the perception
AND
what are we missing when we use disability merely as a rhetorical tool?

The impact comes first – ableist language promotes a model of exclusion that is detrimental to our community
Wheelchair Dancer, 4/28/8 (“On Making Argument: Disability and Language”, http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 4/8/12)
If you are feeling a little bit of resistance, here, I'd ask you
AND
systems of oppression that motivated us to speak out in the first place.
===2NC Turns Oppression=== 
Ableism is a pre-requisite to all oppression
Wolbring '08 Gregor Wolbring, Associate Professor Community Rehabilitation and Disability Studies, Past President of Canadian Disability Studies Association and member of the board of the Society for Disability Studies (USA), The politics of Ableism, June 2008,
http://secure.gvsu.edu/cms3/assets/3B8FF455-E590-0E6C-3ED0F895A6FBB287/the_politics_of_ableism.pdf
Ableism is an umbrella ism for other isms such as racism, sexism, casteism, ageism, speciesism, anti-environmentalism, gross domestic product (GDP)-ism and consumerism. One can identify many different forms of Ableism such as biological structure-based Ableism (B), cognition-based Ableism (C), social structure-based Ableism (S) and Ableism inherent to a given economic system (E). ABECS could be used as the Ableism equivalent to the NBICS S&T convergence (Wolbring,2007e).

The ideology behind Ableism is the similar to the ideology used by the Nazi's. Ableism will cause the mass extermination of whoever is considered "abnormal"
Sandra Levi and Mark Sherry 2005 [Sandra, Associate Professor at Midwestern University, and mark, dept of sociology at university of Toledo, definitions of ableism http://www.sagepub.com/upm-data/9671_022850_Albrecht_EntriesBeginningWithA.pdf
Eugenics may be defined as development and improvement of the human race. Eugenic methods
AND
those likely to be born abled, invalidate the lives of disabled persons.
===2NC AT Butler=== 

Butler votes neg---concedes that the regulation of speech is appropriate where there is a clear story about its negative effects
Fleche ‘99
Anne, Michigan Institute of Technology, Theatre Journal 51.3, muse
Rather than offer prescriptions, Butler uses her own writing to illustrate the power of
AND
exciting risk of language, where a threat might also be a promise.

Err neg---Butler’s pedantic insistence on subversive performance ignores the very real political and emotional damage done through the choices of certain words---if we win a net-benefit, you should ignore this argument
Nussbaum ‘99
Martha, law and ethics at University of Chicago, New Republic, ebsco
What precisely does Butler offer when she counsels subversion? She tells us to engage
AND
. It collaborates with evil. Feminism demands more and women deserve better.

===2NC AT Didn’t mean it=== 
Metaphors define everything about us – they are representations of the cultural position we occupy in society – dismissing them as semantic rhetoric ignores the ways in which metaphors are fundamental tools of thought and reasoning that shape the way we understand and act to the world
Hibbits, ’94 [Bernard J. Hibbitts, December, 1994, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 229, “MAKING SENSE OF METAPHORS: VISUALITY, AURALITY, AND THE RECONFIGURATION OF AMERICAN LEGAL DISCOURSE”, Lexis]
Metaphors embody and configure both the abiding and the changing preoccupations of an age.
AND
should passively watch the world, rather than become actively engaged with it.
==Give Back the Land K== 
===1NC Shell=== 

Their exposition of racism is a strategic silence. The Affirmative fails to consider Native Americans because doing so would force a confrontation with a colonial history that undermines their ostensibly progressive agenda. Their refusal of racism will only amount to just another form of colonialism on STOLEN LAND
Churchill `96 (Ward Churchill, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder 1996 [“I Am Indigenist,” From A Native Son pgs 520-30])
I’ll debunk some of this nonsense in a moment, but first I want to
AND
, sexist, classist, homophobic, militaristic order on non-Indians.

Any attempts to effect change for Native Americans within a statist framework will ultimately serve to further mask the cultural genocide they endure.
Ward Churchill, Native American activist and prolific author, April 2004 [“Dismantling the Politics of Comfort”. Satya Magazine]
That's looking for a painless fix again. Power and leverage in the traditional sense
AND
S. ability to project power on a global basis has no historical precedent

The continuing genocide of Native America puts all life on earth at risk.
Friedberg 2000 (Friedberg, author and political activist with a master's degree in the humanities from the University of Chicago and is currently a doctoral candidate in Germanic Studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 2K [Lilian , Dare to Compare: Americanizing the Holocaust, The American Indian Quarterly 24.3 (2000) 353-380])
This is not to deny or diminish the clear and present danger in the ominous
AND
and sealed its own fate on this continent as that of homo sacer:

Thus, our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s proposal for the extension of United States state power in favor of a politics aimed at the decolonization of North America. Politics invariably requires the establishment of priorities – ours should be this: First Priority to First Americans.

Recognizing this imperative demonstrates that a simple reformation of US colonialism is an insufficient remedy to centuries of genocidal affairs. Only dismantling the United States all together liberates Native America and us all from the grip of its imperial chokehold.
Churchill `96 (Ward Churchill, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder 1996 [“I Am Indigenist,” From A Native Son pgs 89-94])
The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenous land claims, especially in the
AND
realism.” Isn’t it time we all went to work on attaining it?

==1NC Disabled Rhetoric K== 
Their use of the word “disabled” reinforces a biological model of ability that naturalizes discrimination against people with impairments
Harpur 2012 (Paul, TC Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland, Brisbane, “From disability to ability: changing the phrasing of the debate,” Disability & Society Vol. 21, No. 2, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09687599.2012.654985.)
Arguably the word ‘disabled’ has developed to support an ableist ideology. The labling
AND
describe a person with different abilities by reference to what they are not.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]