[[toc]]
=Agenda= 
==Immigration DA== 
===Uniqueness=== 

====2NC Uniqueness MBA==== 
Immigration reform UQ now—top of the agenda and Obama push will force a compromise
Estes, ‘1/2 [01/02/13, Adam Clark Estes, “Obama's Push for Immigration Reform Starts Now”, http://www.theatlanticwire.com/politics/2013/01/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now/60525/]
Everybody knew that Obama was going to tackle immigration reform in his second term.
AND
might have leaders in both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya.'"


Immigration reform will pass, with an Obama push
Fiscal Cliff makes negotiations easier
Foley and Stein, ‘1/2 [01/02/2013, Elise Foley and Sam Stein, “Obama's Immigration Reform Push To Begin This Month”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html]
Lofgren expressed hope that immigration reform would be able to get past partisan gridlock,
AND
in both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya,'" Sharry said.

Voter demographics strengthens Obama’s credibility
Prime, ‘1/4 [01/04/13, Peter Prime, “Immigration Reform 2013: Will the GOP Change Its Mind on the DREAM Act?”, http://www.policymic.com/articles/21967/immigration-reform-2013-will-the-gop-change-its-mind-on-the-dream-act]
Before the defeat of Mitt Romney in the presidential election, Lindsay Graham, a
AND
if they face pressure to do so from a segment of their base.

There’s growing GOP support
Henderson, ‘1/2 [01/02/13, Wade Henderson, “GOP, time to rebrand in the image of the 'Great Emancipator'”, http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/01/opinion/henderson-civil-rights-gop/index.html]
Looking forward to the 113th Congress, there are several civil rights initiatives that would
AND
a pathway to citizenship for long-term, law-abiding residents.

Public pressure and Latino voters are pushing Republicans
Shah, ‘1/2 [01/02/13, Allie Shah, “Cultures & immigration beat: 'Dreamers' may be the next hot topic”, http://www.startribune.com/local/185485582.html?refer=y]
Expect a big year on the immigration front, with reverberations from the 2012 presidential election adding new urgency to the call for fixing the nation's troubled immigration system. More than 70 percent of Latino voters backed President Obama's re-election, citing his stance on immigration issues as a key reason for their support, according to exit polls. In response, more Republican Party leaders are calling for a renewed focus on immigration reform.

====2NC AT Debt Thumper==== 
No thumpers—immigration reform is top of the agenda, other issues aren’t going to drain momentum—fiscal cliff is irrelevant
Foley and Stein, ‘1/2 [01/02/2013, Elise Foley and Sam Stein, “Obama's Immigration Reform Push To Begin This Month”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html]
WASHINGTON -- Despite a bruising fiscal cliff battle that managed to set the stage for
AND
to fund the government and a debt ceiling that will soon be hit.

Immigration thumps debt
Fabian, ‘1/3 [01/03/12, Jordan Fabian, “Vice President Joe Biden: GOP Had Immigration "Epiphany””, http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/Politics/vp-joe-biden-reassures-latino-lawmakers-immigration/story?id=18126474#.UOd_WOTAfGA]
Still, some advocates fear that impending showdowns over issues like the debt limit and
AND
to do these things; it's an obligation to ourselves and future generations."

Obama will avoid negotiations with congress over debt ceiling
Shear and Calmes, ‘1/3 [01/03/12, Michael D. Shear and Jackie Calmes, “With One Crisis Over, Lawmakers Gird for a New Clash,” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/03/us/politics/for-obama-no-clear-path-to-avoid-a-debt-ceiling-fight.html?_r=0]]]
Even as Republicans vow to leverage a needed increase in the federal debt limit to
AND
liberal allies, who fear another round of compromises by Mr. Obama.


====2NC AT Hagel Thumper==== 
Presidential nominations have no effect on the agenda
Hutchinson ’12-2 [12/2/12, Earl Ofari Hutchinson is an author and political analyst. He is a frequent political commentator on MSNBC and a weekly co-host of the Al Sharpton Show on American Urban Radio Network. He is the author of How Obama Governed: The Year of Crisis and Challenge. He is an associate editor of New America Media. He is the host of the weekly Hutchinson Report on KPFK-Radio and the Pacifica Network. “Rice Nomination Fight Won’t Drain President Obama’s Political Capital,” http://www.eurweb.com/2012/12/rice-nomination-fight-wont-drain-president-obamas-political-capital/]
*If the heat on UN ambassador Susan Rice wasn’t intense enough from GOP senators
AND
grumbles about her would threaten his push of his administration’s larger agenda items.


===Link=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
Political capital key
Dallas Morning News, ‘1/2 [01/02/2013, Dallas Morning News, “Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,” [[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]]
President Barack Obama said all the right things Sunday about immigration reform. The president
AND
.” President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday.



====2NC Adaptation Links==== 
Their link turn doesn’t apply to the aff
Unrelated projects get massive controversy
Abdullah and Liptak, ‘1/6 [1/6/13, Halimah Abdullah and Kevin Liptak, “Obama signs scaled-back Sandy aid bill”, http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2013/01/06/obama-signs-scaled-back-sandy-aid-bill/]
Washington (CNN) – President Barack Obama signed into law Sunday a $9.7 billion Superstorm Sandy aid package following delays over fiscal cliff bickering, warnings of dwindling federal funds and swirling controversy over millions of dollars for unrelated projects.


The recent authorization was the limit to what they’ll fund—any new spending will be massively controversial
Abdullah and Liptak, ‘1/6 [1/6/13, Halimah Abdullah and Kevin Liptak, “Obama signs scaled-back Sandy aid bill”, http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2013/01/06/obama-signs-scaled-back-sandy-aid-bill/]
It was the first legislative action of the new Congress, which picked up the
AND
hawks viewed the extra funding as wasteful in an era of record deficits.

NEWSFLASH – the aff isn’t Sandy relief – Initial Sandy relief was popular BUT the plan’s expensive additional measures is distinct and would be controversial.
Young, 1/3 [Jan. 3, 2013, Kerry Young, Roll Call Staff, “House's Sandy Aid Bill Is Only the First Chapter Remaining relief funds could come in 2 separate measures” http://www.rollcall.com/news/houses_sandy_aid_bill_is_only_the_first_chapter-220545-1.html?ET=rollcall:e14914:40818a:&st=email&pos=eam]
Northeast lawmakers whose states were damaged by Superstorm Sandy are finally seeing the House action
AND
deciding how to proceed with Sandy aid beyond the initial flood insurance money.

Disaster funding is politically unpopular - Republicans
Boehlert, ’11 [9/27/11, ERIC BOEHLERT “FEMA Funding: How The Press Missed The Story”, http://mediamatters.org/blog/2011/09/27/fema-funding-how-the-press-missed-the-story/182045]

The last-minute Senate deal announced last night to avoid a government shutdown,
AND
current offset demands in the disaster relief bill were unprecedented [emphasis added]:

====2NC Climate Link==== 
Climate Adaptation faces political opposition
Brunner and Nordgren, ‘12 [Ron Brunner, Professor of Political Science at University of Colorado at Boulder, and John Nordgren, Senior Program Officer of Environment for Kresge Foundation, April 6th, 2012, “Climate Adaptation as an Evolutionary Process: A White Paper” The Kresge Foundation]
Practitioners offered few specific examples of what did not work in their past experience.
AND
However, several tactics for dealing with disruption or opposition were tried or recommended

Republicans won’t budge on climate change legislation – massively unpopular
Goldenberg, ‘12 [Suzanne Goldenberg, US environmental correspondent for The Guardian newspaper, “Climate Change Campaigners Cautioned Over Reaction to Extreme Weather” The Guardian, PD: July 13, 2012 at 5:17 PM EDT, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/jul/13/climate-change-campaigners-cautioned?newsfeed=true]
The recent freak weather does provide powerful evidence of the dangers of climate change,
AND
of, 'I will show you. I will not budge an inch."

Republicans oppose action on climate change
Goldenberg, ‘12 [Suzanne Goldenberg, US environmental correspondent for The Guardian newspaper, “Climate Change Campaigners Cautioned Over Reaction to Extreme Weather” The Guardian, PD: July 13, 2012 at 5:17 PM EDT, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/jul/13/climate-change-campaigners-cautioned?newsfeed=true]
Half of the incoming crop of Republicans in that election denied the existence of climate
AND
am toast, I may as well just ignore it," he said.

====2NC Space Link==== 
Finding funding for space is an enormous political challenge
Powell ’09 chron.com, NASA's mission for billions more may be an uphill battle, September 12, Stewart Powell
WASHINGTON — NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle to get the extra funding
AND
have trouble,” said one congressional staffer, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Space funding is politically controversial --- benefits aren’t perceived
Cunningham 10 (Walter, Former Apollo Astronaut, “Slashed NASA Budget Would Leave the U.S. No Longer a Space Leader”, Houston Chronicle, 2-6, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/outlook/6854790.html]])

NASA has always been a political football. The agency's lifeblood is federal funding,
AND
in the 1960s are still paying off in technology applications and new businesses.



Empirically true --- every President has pushed space policy changes, but Congress has blocked it
Young 8 (Anthony, Author – The Saturn V F-1 Engine: Powering Apollo into History, “Review: Spaceflight and the Myth of Presidential Leadership”, The Space Review, 9-29, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1218/1]])

The authors in this book put forth the views that US presidents do not have
AND
realistically lower expectations of what the next US president will promote and achieve.

They can win all their link turns and you vote negative – even if space is popular in the abstract, funding issues eliminate all political support
Handberg, 11 - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving
AND
least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.

Independently, Competing agencies kill to political support – powerful constituencies will fight to prevent tradeoffs
Handberg, 11 - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/01/06/04.xml|NASA Administrator Charles Bolden alluded to that reality recently]]: “Future NASA space programs
AND
The cure for some disease is always just another appropriation away from happening.

Media spins the plan to be unpopular
Brooks 7 (Jeff, Space Advocate and Writer – [[http://movementforanewrenaissance.blogspot.com/|Movement for a New Renaissance]], “Putting NASA’s Budget in Perspective”, The Space Review, 7-2, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/898/1]])

When space advocates hear this argument, it is difficult not to become irritated or
AND
various programs that are often cited as more deserving than the space agency.


====2NC AT Polcap Not Key==== 
Obama’s leadership and prioritization of immigration reform key to passage
Castro, ’12 [11/13/2012, Tony Castro, “What Spielberg’s ‘Lincoln’ tells Obama about immigration reform,” [[http://www.voxxi.com/lincoln-obama-immigration-reform/]]]
But today Obama is facing something that, while not similar in historic importance,
AND
the spoils of office at his disposal to win over the necessary votes.

Their political capital theory arguments don’t apply to immigration reform—Obama uniquely needs the bully pulpit and there is limited space on the agenda—the aff trades off
Hesson, ‘1/2 [01/02/13, Ted Hesson, “Analysis: 6 Things Obama Needs To Do for Immigration Reform,” [[http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/things-president-obama-immigration-reform/story?id=18103115#.UOR2lXfbhtE|http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/things-president-obama-immigration-reform/story?id=18103115#.UOR2lXfbhtE]]]

On Sunday, President Barack Obama said that immigration reform is a "top priority
AND
year. "There's only limited oxygen in the room," Chishti said.

Political capital does play a key role in determining the outcome of legislation
Beckmann & Kumar, 11 --- Department of Poli Sci and UC Irvine (Matthew N. Beckmann and Vimal Kumar, Journal of Theoretical Politics, “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking,” SAGE Journals Database)
Agreeing that presidents’ strategic options in Congress do indeed depend heavily on factors beyond
AND
but stand there and take it’, as Lyndon Johnson once put it.

====2NC AT Dickinson==== 
DICKINSON CONCLUDES NEG – prefer this evidence because it’s from a peer reviewed journal and isn’t just a random blog post.
Dickinson, poli sci prof middlebury, ‘9 (Matthew Dickinson, professor of political science at Middlebury College. He taught previously at Harvard University, where he also received his Ph.D., working under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, We All Want a Revolution: Neustadt, New Institutionalism, and the Future of Presidency Research, Presidential Studies Quarterly 39 no4 736-70)
Small wonder, then, that initial efforts to find evidence of presidential power centered
AND
the context of electorally determined opportunities,” Sullivan concludes (1991, 1188).
===Impact=== 
====1NC Competitiveness Impact==== 
Key to US competitiveness
Bush, et al, ’09 [7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html]
Our immigration system has been broken for too long, and the costs of that
AND
to foreign students and providing a faster track to permanent residency and citizenship.

Great power war
Baru, ‘9 [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]
Hence, economic policies and performance do have strategic consequences. In the modern era
AND
they will do so once again in today's America remains to be seen.

====2NC Economy Impact==== 
Reform turns economy
West, ‘09 – Director of Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution (7/22/09, Darrell M., “The Path to a New Immigration Reform,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0721_immigration_reform_west.aspx)

Skeptics need to understand how important a new immigration policy is to American competitiveness and
AND
we recognize their majority role in our workforce as the next generation rises.

====2NC Turns Space Weaponization==== 
Turns space weaponization.
Popular Mechanics 9 – “Can Obama Ban Space Weapons Successfully?”, 2/9, http://www.popularmechanics.com/print-this/4303139
The first, and most obvious problem for this administration is answering the question,
AND
are a threat to everyone. That would certainly be a positive development.

====2NC Turns Nanotech==== 
Innovation turns nanotech
Manufacturing and Technology News 2k5
(“Lack of Manufacturing Base Imperils U.S. Lead in Nanotechnology” pg online @ [[http://www.manufacturingnews.com/news/05/0708/art1.html]] //)
Nanotechnology, often touted as a key to maintaining the United States' global lead in
AND
we do commercialize and manufacture the set of technologies that we can here."

====2NC Turns Prolif==== 
Turns impact to prolif
Taylor ‘4 [4/1/04, Mark Taylor is a professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Politics of Technological Change: International Relations versus Domestic Institutions,” http://www.scribd.com/doc/46554792/Taylor]
Technological innovation is of central importance to the study of international relations (IR),
AND
production, and war, international systems would not exist in the first place

====2NC Turns Science Diplomacy==== 
Innovation is critical to solve smart power and scientific diplomacy
Federoff, USAID Administrator, ‘8 (Dr. Nina, April 2, “International Science And Technology Cooperation,” Statement before the Committee on House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, CQ Congressional Testimony)
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank
AND
will promote greater U.S.-African regional cooperation on this issue.
==Fiscal Cliff DA== 
===Glenbrooks Uniqueness=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

Fiscal Cliff will pass now – urgency and compromise
Washington Post, ‘11/16 [11/16/12, The Washington Post, “Fiscal cliff meeting produces bipartisan show of optimism by Obama, congressional leaders”, http://www.dallasnews.com/news/local-news/20121116-fiscal-cliff-meeting-produces-bipartisan-show-of-optimism-by-obama-congressional-leaders.ece]
WASHINGTON - After a brutally divisive presidential campaign and two years of acrimony over the
AND
as soon as we can, we know the stakes are very high.”

====2NC Uniqueness Wall==== 

Will pass now – cautious optimism.
Przybyla and Rubin 11/18
Heidi and Richard, Fiscal cliff optimism climbs, Bloomberg Staff Writers, Khaleej Times, http://www.khaleejtimes.com/biz/inside.asp?section=internationbusiness&xfile=/data/internationbusiness/2012/November/internationbusiness_November106.xml

WASHINGTON - The first face-to face meeting between US President Barack Obama and
AND
cuts and a process for overhauling the tax code and entitlements in 2013.
Will reach a deal – consensus now.
O’Brien 11/18
Michael, NBC staff writer, Capitol Hill leaders sound optimistic notes after fiscal cliff talks with Obama, http://nbcpolitics.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/11/16/15218657-capitol-hill-leaders-sound-optimistic-notes-after-fiscal-cliff-talks-with-obama?lite

Updated 1:36 p.m. ET - Capitol Hill leaders emerged from
AND
to find a solution and come to a conclusion as soon as possible."


Fiscal cliff compromise will pass
a. Congressional Leadership
CBSNews, ‘11/16 [11/16/12, CBS News, “President, Congress meet to avert 'fiscal cliff'”, http://www.wkyt.com/wymt/home/headlines/President-Congress-meet-to-avert-fiscal-cliff-179715171.html]
President Obama met with House Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
AND
to give up some of the things that we know are a problem."

b. Political environment
Cushman, 11/10 (John H., 11/10/2012, NYTimes.com Feed, “Obama and Boehner Circle Each Other on Budget Impasse,” Factiva)

WASHINGTON – President Obama and the House speaker, John A. Boehner, circled
AND
to say they needed to give their leaders breathing room and avoid brinkmanship.

====2NC AT No Compromise==== 

Republicans compromise on fiscal cliff now – House GOP following Boehner
Politi 11/11 [Slate Journalist Daniel Politi, “Are Republican Lawmakers Getting Ready To Compromise?”, Sunday, Nov. 11, 2012, at 3:02 PM ET, Accessed 11/15/12 http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_slatest/2012/11/11/john_boehner_fiscal_cliff_negotiations_will_republicans_compromise_after.html]
David Axelrod, one of President Obama’s closest advisers said that House Speaker John Boehner
AND
higher tax rate, which Republicans vehemently oppose, points out the Times.

Republicans compromising now over the cliff
Bull 11/12 [Alister Bull, Reuters, “Republicans say deal can be done on U.S. "fiscal cliff"” WASHINGTON | Mon Nov 12, 2012 3:24pm EST, Accessed 11/15/12 http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/12/us-usa-fiscal-idUSBRE8A80WV20121112]
A senior Republican senator voiced confidence on Sunday that U.S. lawmakers would
AND
the effective tax rate that most affluent U.S. households pay.


====2NC AT Thumpers==== 

Obama will focus on fiscal cliff for next few months
Yakabuski, 11/7 (Konrad, 11/7/2012, “In first 100 days of second term, Obama will stare down a cliff,” http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/us-election/in-first-100-days-of-second-term-obama-will-stare-down-a-cliff/article5026650/)

Avoiding the $500-billion (U.S.)
AND
projects during his final term.

Fiscal cliff negotiations will dominate the lame duck and crowd out other issues
Pottorff, 10/22 --- Doane chief economist & Washington analyst (Rich, 10/22/2012, “D.C. Watch: Fiscal cliff threat to dominate lame-duck session,” [[http://www.cattlenetwork.com/cattle-news/latest/DC-Watch-Fiscal-cliff-to-dominate-lame-duck-session-175271241.html]])

Automatic (sequester) spending cuts reducing government spending by about $109 billion for
AND
, there are very diverse views about the food and nutrition program provisions.

====2NC AT Rice Thumper==== 

He’s nominating Kerry and comparatively no polcap[
Viser 11/14 – Boston Globe Writer
Obama rips critics of UN ambassador
By Matt Viser | GLOBE STAFF NOVEMBER 14, 2012
http://www.bostonglobe.com/news/politics/2012/11/14/president-obama-answers-questions-fiscal-cliff-four-star-generals/iug9VEACaijAYG6k0KpkoM/story.html
The White House is now confronted with the decision over whether to expend political capital
AND
than $250,000 a year. He also said that simply limiting

====2NC AT Kick The Can==== 

Even if Congress does it is still likely to make significant progress and it is better than falling over the cliff
Wolfensberger, 11/6 ---senior scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center, a resident scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center and former staff director of the House Rules Committee (Don, 11/6/2012, Roll Call, “Lame Ducks Seldom Become Mighty Ducks,” Factiva)

Congress avoided one budgetary hang-up this year by enacting a six-month
AND
. That is probably the best that can be hoped for this year.

Reid pushing to avoid kicking the can
Lesniewski, 11/7 (Niels, 11/7/2012, “Harry Reid Rejects Calls to Punt on ‘Fiscal Cliff’,” http://www.rollcall.com/news/harry_reid_rejects_calls_to_punt_on_fiscal_cliff-218831-1.html?pos=hftxt)

A conciliatory Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid issued a call for compromise during the lame
AND
avert the tax rate increases and automatic spending cuts looming at year’s end.

Kicking the can causes downgrade and double dip recession – confidence.
MacGuineas 11/16/12
Maya MacGuineas is the president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, Five Myths about the Fiscal Cliff, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-the-fiscal-cliff/2012/11/16/bc061c88-2f3f-11e2-9f50-0308e1e75445_story.html

Some have called on lawmakers to postpone parts of the fiscal cliff by waiving the
AND
, enough to cause a double-dip recession. Why risk that?

===Links=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
But, that’s contingent on Obama’s political capital—only way to maintain that compromise
Kalb 11/8 [Marvin, George Wash. Univ. James Clark Welling Fellow / Fox News Analyst, focuses on the impact of media on public policy and politics. He is also an expert in national security, with a focus on U.S. relations with Russia, Europe and the Middle East. His most recent book is Haunting Legacy: Vietnam and the American Presidency from Ford to Obama (Brookings Institution Press, 2011), 2:30pm, “An Overture to Romney”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/11/08-romney-kalb]], Accessed 11/8/12]
Conservative critics, gloomy after their candidate’s defeat, argue that President Obama, despite
AND
Why not appoint Romney to replace Tim Geithner as Secretary of the Treasury?

Transportation policies destroy his political capital
Freemark, ’12 [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

====2NC Spending Link==== 
The plan spoils bipartisanship by being rammed through Congress
Lillis, 9/29 (Mike, 9/29/2012, “Democrats lay out second-term wish list for President Obama,” [[http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/259253-dems-lay-out-wish-list-for-a-second-obama-term]] )
Obama, for his part, is optimistic that Republicans would be more willing to
AND
great here on the Hill that the midterm will very likely create problems."

Only a climate of bipartisanship can resolve the fiscal cliff
Hunter & Tiron, 11/7 (Kathleen Hunter and Roxana Tiron, 11/7/2012, “Obama Faces Pressure to Lead on ‘Fiscal Cliff’ After Win,”<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/obama-faces-pressure-to-lead-on-fiscal-cliff-after-win.html]]</span>)
President Barack Obama’s victory positions him to claim a mandate for pushing a proposal through
AND
and dividends than now and a smaller estate tax exemption and higher rate.

GOP compromise predicated on spending reductions
Grant, 11/7 (David, 11/7/2012, “Election Day bears fruit? Boehner, Reid talk of compromise on 'fiscal cliff'”[[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/11/election-day-bears-fruit-boehner-reid-talk-compromise-fiscal-cliff]])

“In order to garner Republican support
AND
good on his ‘balanced’ approach.”

====2NC Icebreakers Link==== 

Icebreakers are a contentious issue in the house. House republicans are fighting Obama over what to do with the fleet.
Ahlers ‘11 [Mike M. Ahlers, November 3, 2011. “Polar icebreaker dispute ties up Coast Guard appropriations.” CNN. http://articles.cnn.com/2011-11-03/politics/politics_congress-polar-icebreakers_1_icebreakers-polar-star-polar-sea?_s=PM:POLITICS]
With the nation's only two heavy-duty polar icebreakers broken and out of service
AND
to 10-year life after it returns to service in late 2012.
House republicans are against repairing Ice Breakers. The plan is unpopular.
McCarter, ‘11 [March 2nd, Mickey, HS today writer, Coast Guard Balances Broadening Missions, Tightening Funds] http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/today-s-news-analysis/single-article/coast-guard-balances-broadening-missions-tightening-funds/9375c0db781c458a2bac9e0bd643f5d9.html]
Congressmen led by Rep. Frank LoBiondo [R-NJ], the subcommittee chairman
AND
is a classic example of throwing good money after bad," LoBiondo asserted.

====2NC Water Infrastructure Link==== 

Water infrastructure is unpopular
Rosen, ‘12 [February 13, 2012, Reporter for the McClatchy newspaper, “Obama Seeks Funds to Deepen Charleston Port,” McClatchy, Newspaper, James Rosen, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2012 /02/13/138778/obama-seeks-funds-to-deepen-charleston.html]
Graham and other GOP lawmakers also criticized Obama's spending plan for the 2013 fiscal year
AND
answer," Graham said. "I threatened to shut the Senate down."

====2NC AT Polcap Fails==== 
Congress making progress now to complete a deal to prevent sequestration --- Obama’s capital is key
Weisman, 10/3 (Jonathan, 10/3/2012, International Herald Tribune, “U.S. senators in talks to settle deficit reduction; Group aiming to avert automatic tax increases and deep spending cuts,” Factiva)

U.S. Senate leaders are closing in on a path for dealing with
AND
deal, deliver the members of his party and sign the bill.’’

Presidential leadership and leverage is key to prevent sequestration
Ewing, 10/23 (Philip, 10/23/2012, “D.C. caught off guard by Obama sequester vow,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=BB4FD464-D051-4ACC-9172-29D6C9749D7F)
President Barack Obama startled Washington during Monday night's foreign policy debate when he said billions
AND
will have to pass legislation undoing that provision in order to avoid it.”


====2NC AT Corn Lobby Link Turn==== 


griculture lobby has no influence after cap and trade fail
Denver Post ’09 (7/13, “Agriculture lobby blew it on cap and trade”, http://www.denverpost.com/opinion/ci_12822243)
However, the economic illiteracy of the agriculture lobby is embarrassing. Waxman-Markey's
AND
agriculture lobbyists will understand that when they're out of a job, too.

====2NC AT Winners Win==== 

Fighting for passage of the plan FORCES a trades off with other agenda priorities
Bernstein, political scientist who writes about American politics, 8/20 (Jonathan, 8/20/2011, “The power that a president does -- and doesn't -- have A president has less power than Obama's liberal critics think -- but they also have more power than they realize,” [[http://www.salon.com/news/politics/war_room/2011/08/20/bernstein_presidential_power/index.html]])
Moreover, the positions of the president and most everyone else are, to look
AND
and where and how to use the various bargaining chips that are available.

Obama’s Velcro – only blame will stick
Nicholas and Hook, 10 (Peter Nicholas and Janet Hook, 7/30/10, LA Times, “Obama the Velcro president,” http://articles.latimes.com/print/2010/jul/30/nation/la-na-velcro-presidency-20100730)
If Ronald Reagan was the classic Teflon president, Barack Obama is made of Velcro
AND
a very important agenda, but it hasn't translated into dinner table conversations."

====2NC AT Obama Ducks==== 

The president is always the primary target for blame, they can’t deflect it to underlings in the executive branch
Ellis ’94 ELLIS, PROF OF GOV @ BERKELEY, 1994 PRICHARD, “PRESIDENTIAL LIGHTENING ROD, PG 2]
This argument seems plausible enough. But so too does the opposite case, argued
AND
NO one thinks of them in terms of their effects upon his cabinet.

===Impacts=== 
====1NC Economy + Sequestration Shell==== 

Delayed or failed fiscal cliff collapses the global economy
Zakaria, ’12 [10/12/12, Fareed Zakaria, “Breaking the Deadlock,” [[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2128309,00.html?xid=rss-mostpopular]]]

Whether Barack Obama or Mitt Romney wins the election on Tuesday, on Wednesday he
AND
the idea. And congressional Democrats weren't all that unhappy with the outcome.

Extinction
Harris and Burrows, ‘09 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

Presidential leadership is key to compromise – failure collapses heg and wrecks the economy
Hutchison, 9/21 --- Senator from Texas (Kay Bailey, 9/21/2012, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://hutchison.senate.gov/?p=weekly_column&id=1230]]</span>)

Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a
AND
the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.


====2NC Economy Internals==== 

Failure will trigger global economic decline
Mandel, 9/27 (Harold, 9/27/2012, “Fitch says fiscal cliff could set off global recession,” <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.examiner.com/article/fitch-says-fiscal-cliff-could-set-off-global-recession]]</span>)

Money News has reported on September 27, 2012: "Fitch: US Fiscal
AND
fiscal cliff is confronted and avoided this could be bad news for everyone.

Will trigger recession --- no resiliency
Housel, 10/5 (Morgan, 10/5/2012, “What You Need to Know About the Fiscal Cliff,” <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.dailyfinance.com/2012/10/05/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-fiscal-cliff/]]</span>)

Regardless of ideology, virtually all economists agree
that going over the fiscal cliff will tip us back into recession. The
AND
shrinking the taxpayer base, offsetting a big chunk of the deficit reduction.

====2NC Hegemony Internals==== 

Sequestration kills long term stability and strength of heg – national security impossible
Blondin 11/13 [Mark Blondin, Int. Assoc. of Machinist & Aerospace Workers VP, is general vice president of the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers. “Op-ed: Fiscal cliff would kneecap our military”, Originally published November 13, 2012 at 4:40 PM, Accessed 11/14/12
http://seattletimes.com/html/opinion/2019676430_markblondinopedxml.html]
THE gridlock in Congress has gotten so bad, most people don’t even notice it
AND
choice between crippling our economy and kneecapping our military, or saving them.

Sequestration automatically kills the military – no domestic response – and causes Recession
Schulzke 11/13 [Eric, Deseret News, “Looming 'fiscal cliff' makes election friction look tame”, Tuesday, Nov. 13 2012 11:11 p.m. MST, Accessed 11/15/12 http://www.deseretnews.com/article/865566724/Looming-fiscal-cliff-makes-election-friction-look-tame.html?pg=2]
With the election over, voters can take a deep breath. But they had
AND
It is not the responsible way for our nation to achieve deficit reduction.”

Automatic Sequestration cuts kill power projection – prevents challenges from Iran, North Korea, Russia, China
Hunter 9/30 [Alaska US Representative , Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, Accessed 11/15/12, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article]
To most Americans, the term “sequestration” does not mean a whole lot
AND
uphold our promises and stand ready to defend our interests against any threat.

====2NC AT Collapse Now==== 
Only a risk of a turns case—fiscal cliff resolves all uniqueness issues
a. Investors are holding back their decision about the economy in anticipation of the fiscal cliff—economy is stable now
Samra, 10/22 --- UK branch director at Charles Schwab (Kully, 10/22/2012, Investment Adviser, “Investment Adviser: Some reasons to be confident on the US.,” Factiva)

The US economy may be muddling through the economic crisis but with indices nearing their
AND
attempted with regard to the details of how these problems may be addressed.

b. Obama’s second term means creating a stable perception is key—passing fiscal cliff sends a signal that revitalizes the economy and resolves any short term scenario for collapse
Newman, 10/26 (Rick, 10/26/2012, “The Fiscal Cliff Masks an Improving Economy,” http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/rick-newman/2012/10/26/the-fiscal-cliff-masks-an-improving-economy)

If President Barack Obama wins a second term, he may enjoy the kind of
AND
," Baumohl says, "then the employment outlook should continue to brighten."


====2NC Turns China==== 
Turns US/China cooperation and war
Mead 9 (Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy – Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger”, The New Republic, 2-4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)
The greatest danger both to U.S.-China relations and to American power
AND
the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.
====2NC Turns Cosmopolitanism==== 

Kills cosmo
Sanders, ’90 [Jerry W. Sanders 90, Prof. Peace and Conflict Studies, UC, Berkeley [“Global Ecology and World Economy: Collision Course or Sustainable Future”, Bulletin of Peace Proposals Vol. 21 (4) p. 395-401]

Circumstances of looming catastrophe like these call for a maximum of world order and international
AND
, with one nation after another forced into escalating confrontation along several fronts.

====2NC Turns Russia==== 

Financial crisis strengthens Russian hardliners—makes war more likely
Gjelten, NPR, ‘9 (Tom, February 19, “Downturn Raises Risk of Global Financial Warfare” http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=100832254)
Worries About Eastern Europe. Another critical area is Eastern Europe. Governments from Poland
AND
I think it's reinforced a reflexive anti-American view," Gordon said.



====2NC Turns Soft Power==== 
Economic collapse kills soft power
Nye, Gov Professor at Harvard, ‘6 (Joseph, “Think again: soft power” Yale Global)
No. In a recent article on options for dealing with Iran, Peter Brookes
AND
whereas others are attracted to the European model of human rights and economic freedom

====2NC Turns Trade==== 

The deficit guarantees protectionism and global trade wars
Morgana, ’08 [2008, Iwan Morgana, of the Institute for the Study of the Americas at the University of London, “The Indebted Empire: America's Current-Account Deficit Problem,” International Politics, volume 45]
If America is, as Peterson argues (2004), ‘riding for a fall
AND
and has provided an important advantage in its leadership of the world economy.
====2NC Turns Warming==== 

Growth Solves Warming
Michael <span style="font-size: 16pt;">Zey 97</span>Montclair State University Management Prof, 1997
[The Futurist, pg. 13]

Thus, the answer to pollution, the supposed outgrowth of progress, ought to
AND
wastes from such sources as uranium, plutonium, magnesium, and silver.

Economic Decline turns it
Sanders, ’90 [Jerry W. Sanders 90, Prof. Peace and Conflict Studies, UC, Berkeley [“Global Ecology and World Economy: Collision Course or Sustainable Future”, Bulletin of Peace Proposals Vol. 21 (4) p. 395-401]

What will be the likely impact of economic stagnation and increasing competition on the environment
AND
of fallow land a growing danger in many regions of the Third World.
==Jackson Vanik DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Jackson vanik will pass now – Obama’s pushing
ST 9/1/12 [2012, Seattle Times News, “Time to give Russia permanent trade status,” Fremont Tribune, http://fremonttribune.com/news/opinion/editorial/time-to-give-russia-permanent-trade-status/article_f65db39e-f3eb-11e1-aa0c-001a4bcf887a.html]
The entry of Russia into the World Trade Organization, which happened last week,
AND
Congress to roll back Jackson-Vanik, and Congress should do so.

Transportation infrastructure drains political capital and causes backlash
Freemark ’12 Yonah Freemark, Strategic Initiatives Fellow at MTA New York City Transit, Urban Fellow at the Next American City, founder of The Transport Politic, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum”, January 25, http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/
The contributions of the Obama Administration to the investment in improved transportation alternatives have been significant,
AND
, it is hard to see these ideas disappearing from the popular discourse.

PC is key
Kuchins ’12 Andrew C, senior fellow and director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies – 5/4/12, Vladimir Putin’s Return as Russian President, http://csis.org/publication/vladimir-putins-return-russian-president
The Obama administration will need to work hard and lay out considerable political capital to
AND
when the “end of that day” will be is a mystery.

Failure to repeal is a fatal blow to relations.
Gvosdev ‘12 (World Politics Review, Nikolas K. Gvosdev is the former editor of the National Interest, and a frequent foreign policy commentator in both the print and broadcast media, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11441/the-realist-prism-resetting-the-u-s-russia-reset)
An upcoming decision-point could offer a good indication of what to expect.
AND
end up being a fatal blow to the whole idea of the reset.

Solves war, prolif, economy and china
Allison 10/31 (Graham, Director – Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, and Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Robert D. Blackwill, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters”, Politico, 2011, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6)
That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S
AND
Tehran to joining China in preventing U.N. Security Council resolutions.

===2NC Russia War=== 

That’s the only scenario for extinction
Bostrom 02 – (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)

The unique challenge of existential risks Risks in this sixth category are a recent phenomenon
AND
preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

===2NC Turns Heg=== 
Collapsing US-Russian cooperation will increase global missile sales and the risk of conflict—it will destroy U.S. leadership
Simes 07 (Dimitri, President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, Foreign Affairs, “Losing Russia; The Costs of Renewed Confrontation,” Nov/Dec – lexis)

But if the current U.S.-Russian relationship deteriorates further, it will
AND
incentives and cover for others to confront Washington, with potentially catastrophic results.

U.S.-Russian relations are key to U.S. hegemony
Nixon Center, 3 (Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship, September 2003, http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm)
At the same time, U.S. leaders increasingly recognized the emerging,
AND
action, which provides the context for managing unavoidable differences on other issues.

===2NC Uniqueness Wall=== 
Will pass – lobbying and appeal
TVOR 9/7/12 [2012, The Voice of Russia, “American companies urge repealing Jackson-Vanik amendment,” Moscow Times, http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_09_07/American-companies-urge-repealing-Jackson-Vanik-amendment/]
Leading American companies have addressed the U.S. Congress urging to speedily abolish
AND
take the issue up again, once they reconvene after the August break.

Obama is pushing for JV repeal.
Voice of Russia 8/23/2012 [“Obama wants Congress to lift Jackson-Vanik amendment”
http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_08_23/Obama-wants-Congress-to-lift-Jackson-Vanik-amendment/]
Obama wants Congress to lift Jackson-Vanik amendment. The Obama Administration welcomes Russia’s
AND
document specifically denies most favored nation status to those countries that restrict emigration.

Business experts and directors optimistic of the repeal – polcap still key to ensure there are no delays.
The Moscow Times 8/23 [2012, U.S. Group Expects Trade Bill Passage Sept. 12 http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/us-group-expects-trade-bill-passage-sept-12/466995.html]
A U.S. business group said it is hopeful that Congress will approve
AND
, this probably would be a disadvantage for U.S. business.

Both Democrats and Republicans are ready to support the repeal.
Voice of Russia 9/4 [2012. UK denies introduction of 'Magnitsky List' english.ruvr.ru/2012_09_04/UK-denies-introduction-of-Magnitsky-List/]
“The Russian policy is strongly criticised in the West, especially in the US
AND
that London is just waiting for Washington to make the first move, s

===2NC AT Link Turn=== 
Plan guarantess GOP backlash
Tomasky ’11 “America Needs Its Edge Back”, September 12, http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2011/09/11/america-needs-to-get-its-edge-back.html, Michael, staff writer
The problem—of course—is politics. The idea that the two parties
AND
That’s true, but so is the simple point that the Republican Party in Washington will oppose virtually all public investment. The party believes in something like Friedrich von Hayek’s “spontaneous order”—that is, get government off people’s backs and they (and the markets they create) will spontaneously address any and all problems. But looking around America today, can anyone seriously conclude that this is working?

Plan unpopular – even formerly popular bills drain political capital
Freemark ’12 [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.



===2NC AT Vote After Election=== 
Vote will happen in September
Reuters ’12 [8/21, “US business hopeful Congress passes Russia trade bill in Sept” Reuters, http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/08/21/usa-russia-trade-idINL2E8JL96Z20120821
Business groups, which have been working for months to win approval of PNTR,
AND
issue in the few legislative days left before the elections, he said.

It’ll happen before the election – top priority
Palmer 8/31 [2012, Doug, Reuters Reporter, “Russia "optimistic" on U.S. trade vote, officials say” Chicago Tribune, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-08-31/news/sns-rt-us-usa-russia-tradebre87u19n-20120831_1_pntr-legislation-magnitsky-unconditional-basis]
WASHINGTON [Reuters] - The Russian government remains hopeful the U.S.
AND
-opening benefit of Moscow's entry into the World Trade Organization last week.

It’s the only thing that can pass.
Brown ’12 (3/21/2012, President of the National Chicken Council “Trade relations with Russia will be a boost to the U.S.” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/foreign-policy/217251-mike-brown-president-national-chicken-council)
If there is one thing Congress can agree on during an election year, it is a policy that will spur job creation, boost economic growth and be budget neutral at the same time.
AND
It makes no sense for the United States to lose access to the world’s eleventh largest economy over an outdated law.

Will pass if Obama uses PC
Doug Palmer, 7-19-12 (Staff Writer, Chicago Tribune, " House lawmakers reach deal on Russia trade, rights bill", http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/sns-rt-us-usa-russia-tradebre86i10y-20120719,0,4282739.story :)
The Congress appears increasingly unlikely to approve a controversial bill to upgrade trade relations with
AND
bipartisan fashion, enabling PNTR to move forward," a House Republican aide said

===2NC AT Compartimentalization=== 
Horse trading is unique to Jackson vnaik, Jackson Vanik the election year cuases this

Political capital is uniquely key to Russian issues
Allison & Blackwill, 11 --- *director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, AND **senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration (October, Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill, “Russia and U.S. National Interests: Why Should Americans Care?” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Russia-and-US-NI_final-web.pdf)
Finally, given the disparities between U.S. and Russian interests and governance
AND
build a bipartisan consensus on a controversial topic like American policy toward Russia.
===2NC AT Winners Win=== 

Fighting for passage of the plan FORCES a trades off with other agenda priorities
Bernstein, political scientist who writes about American politics, 8/20 (Jonathan, 8/20/2011, “The power that a president does -- and doesn't -- have A president has less power than Obama's liberal critics think -- but they also have more power than they realize,” http://www.salon.com/news/politics/war_room/2011/08/20/bernstein_presidential_power/index.html)
Moreover, the positions of the president and most everyone else are, to look
AND
and where and how to use the various bargaining chips that are available.

Legislative success depletes capital – doesn’t increase it
Purdum, 10 – Award winning journalist who spent 23 years with the NY Times (12/20/10, Todd S., Vanity Affair, “Obama Is Suffering Because of His Achievements, Not Despite Them,” http://www.vanityfair.com/online/daily/2010/12/obama-is-suffering-because-of-his-achievements-not-despite-them.html)
With this weekend’s decisive Senate repeal of the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell
AND
has remained outspokenly critical of business as usual by both parties in Washington).

=Elections= 
==Obama Win Good DA== 

===Uniqueness=== 

====2NC Cap Classic Uniqueness==== 

Obama will win according to intrade – Gamblers are an empirically better predictor of the election then polls. Only a huge scandal like the plan will tip the election
Thomson 10/24 [Keith Thomson is a writer and reporter for the Huffington Post; 10/24/12; How Gamblers -- History's Most Accurate Election Forecasters -- Are Betting on 2012; http://www.huffingtonpost.com/keith-thomson/how-gamblers--historys-mo_b_2011534.html]

I don't like uncertainty. The current presidential polls -- Gallup with Romney leading by
AND
a huge scandal, I can't see an outcome other than Obama's reelection.

But – polls still vote neg
Blumenthal 10/25 [Mark Blumenthal; 10/25/2012; Presidential Polls Counter Romney Surge Myth; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/25/presidential-polls-romney-surge_n_2016066.html?utm_hp_ref=politics&utm_hp_ref=politics]]]

New polls released on Wednesday and Thursday continue to show President Barack Obama holding narrow
AND
a 3 point Obama advantage on the Investor's Business Daily/TIPP poll.
====2NC Bronx Uniqueness==== 
Strong Obama lead in the status quo—Silver’s models and Prediction Markets
Silver, ‘10/17 [10/17/12, Nate Silver, “Instant Reaction Polls Show Narrow Obama Advantage in Second Debate”, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/17/instant-reaction-polls-show-narrow-obama-advantage-in-second-debate/]], http://www.businessinsider.com/obamas-election-odds-improved-at-intrade-ladbrokes-and-william-hill-2012-10#ixzz29cFY3gIL]
But if you want my best guess: Throughout this election cycle, you would
AND
and put his odds at about 67 percent as of midnight on Wednesday.

More evidence—an aggregation of prediction markets votes negative
Sledge, ‘10/17 [10/17/12, Matt Sledge, “Obama Reelection Odds Jump In Prediction Markets After Second Debate”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/17/obama-reelection-odds_n_1973895.html]
NEW YORK -- After a confident debate performance on Tuesday night, President Barack Obama's
AND
67 percent, as opposed to 64 percent the day before the second debate

Framing issue—Obama is leading in prediction markets and aggregate models which is the only thing that should determine election debates—polls are inconclusive, modelers have personal incentives, and prediction markets solve all biases with polls
Brown et al, ‘10/12 [10/12/12, Jeffrey Brown, Paul Solman, Douglas Schwartz, Ray Fair, Joyce Berg, Hari Sreenivasan, Deeta Mouning, Arthur Roy, David Rothschild, “Political Polls, Professors and Election Markets Predict the Presidential Race”, http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/politics/july-dec12/makingsense_10-12.html
PAUL SOLMAN: We would like to know the winner too. But who to
AND
of this polling information available to them, as well as additional information.


====2NC Georgetown Uniqueness==== 
Obama win highly likely now—key swing states and a consensus of polls
Silver, ‘9/27 [9/27/12, Nate Silver, “Sept. 26: Could 2012 Be Like 2008?”, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/27/sept-26-could-2012-be-like-2008/]
There’s no point in putting it gently: Mitt Romney had one of his worst
AND
figure of the year and up from 79.7 percent on Tuesday.

We’ll out debate them on the swing states—Obama’s leading all of them, but his lead could change
Cook, ‘9/28 [9/28/12, Charlie Cook, “Pollsters Suggest Race Stabilizing in Obama’s Favor”, http://cookpolitical.com/story/4842]
The presidential race remains remarkably stable, which is good news for President Obama and
AND
still change. But there are no signs that it is changing today.
====2NC Greenhill Uniqueness==== 

Obama will win now by a clear margin, but it could still swing—a consensus of the best election models prove
Klein, ‘9/17 [9/17/12, Ezra Klein, “The Romney campaign is in trouble”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/09/17/romney-is-behind-and-the-debates-arent-likely-to-save-him/]
On the presidential level, where everyone running campaigns is very, very good at
AND
crack under the pressure, then that comeback becomes that much less likely.

b. Nate Silver—our evidence has cites him and he’s a statistical mastermind.
Leigh Bureau, the world’s preeminent lecture bureau, “Nate Silver,” 2010, http://www.leighbureau.com/speaker.asp?id=498

Nate Silver has been called a "spreadsheet psychic" and "number-crunching
AND
correctly predicted the presidential winner in 49 states and the District of Columbia.

c. Swing States—Obama leading the key ones, but change is possible
Yost, ‘9/18 [9/18/12, Keith Yost, Staff Columnist, “Opinion: Obama opens a lead with seven weeks to go”, http://tech.mit.edu/V132/N38/yost.html]
As little as two weeks ago, polling put the ball game between Barack Obama
AND
, smart money must be on Democrats to hold onto the White House.

====2NC AT Uniqueness Overwhelms==== 
Even tiny shifts can impact the election.
Silver ’12 Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical modelshttp://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/)
The last thing to remember is that when an election is quite close, it
AND
forecasts, can move a president’s re-election odds at the margin.

Romney has a chance – likely voters
Easley ’10-17 [10/17/12, Jonathan Easley is a writer for The Hill, political insider newspaper in Washington. “Gallup: Romeny’s lead among likely voters expands to six points,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/262557-gallup-romney-opens-up-6-point-national-lead|__http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/262557-gallup-romney-opens-up-6-point-national-lead__]]]
Mitt Romney picked up two points overnight among likely voters and now holds a 6
AND
Iowa, Colorado and Ohio, are true toss-ups right now.

Still uncertain
Cost 10-3 [10/3/12, Jay Cost, “This Race Has Just Begun”, http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/morning-jay-race-has-just-begun_653404.html?page=2]
The most recent RealClearPolitics average of the national polls shows President Obama holding a 3
AND
early November), is it any surprise that the polls swing so wildly?

====2NC AT Election Rigged==== 
Election not rigged- 2006 proves
Hayden ’07 (Craig Hayden is a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the University of Southern California’s Center on Public Diplomacy. Craig’s dissertation at the USC Annenberg School for Communication examined the role of presidential advisors in sustaining the Bush administration's media-driven rhetorical campaign for war against Iraq. Previous to his academic studies, he worked as a marketing professional for a series of technology-centric firms in California. Craig Hayden also holds an MA in International Relations from USC, and a BA in Politics and Economics from the University of California, Santa Cruz. April -- PUBLIC RELATIONS, PELOSI, AND THE U.S. PUBLIC DIPLOMACY MACHINE -- [[http://uscpublicdiplomacy.com/index.php/newsroom/pdblog_detail/070412_public_relations_pelosi_and_the_us_public_diplomacy_machine/]])
For example, what better way to convey the workings of a democracy than an
AND
cannot "play to its strengths" what is left for public diplomacy?
====2NC Independents Uniqueness==== 
Obama is winning among independents – they perceive him to be better for small businesses
Washington Post 9/19 Harrison, J.D. "Obama Tops Romney in New Poll of Small Business Owners." Washington Post. The Washington Post, 19 Sept. 2012. Web. 19 Sept. 2012. <http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/on-small-business/obama-tops-romney-in-new-poll-of-small-business-owners/2012/09/18/6d430d40-01db-11e2-9367-4e1bafb958db_story.html>.
Obama tops Romney in new poll of small business owners Steve Helber/AP -
AND
supportive of small companies by the most coveted group of voters — independents.

Obama has a massive lead over Romney with independent voters
Bowen 9/19 (Robert Bowen. "Fox News and Other Polls Show Obama Pulling Ahead of Romney." Examiner.com. Web. 19 Sept. 2012. <http://www.examiner.com/article/fox-news-and-other-polls-show-obama-pulling-ahead-of-romney>. )
Related topics Fox News Poll Elections 2012 Mitt Romney CNN poll Gallup poll Advertisement Wednesday
AND
today may prove to be the same type moment. We will see.

Romney just lost 30% of the independent vote – 47% comment
Robillard 9/19 (KEVIN ROBILLARD. "POLITICO." POLITICO. N.p., 9/19/12. Web. 19 Sept. 2012. <http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81408.html?hp=l1>.)
Almost three in 10 independent voters said Mitt Romney’s
AND
Tuesday as part of Gallup’s daily tracking poll. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percent. Read more: http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81408.html#ixzz26yR6PVXG


====2NC Ohio Uniqueness==== 
Obama will win Ohio, that’s key to the election
Spinelli 9/18 [John Michael Spinelli is a staff writer for The Examiner; 9/18/2012; In Columbus Monday, Obama 'dots the i' in Ohio and China; http://www.examiner.com/article/in-columbus-monday-obama-dots-the-i-ohio-and-china]

Before the president even spoke to crowds in Cincinnati and Columbus that he'll be better
AND
points, according to the last NBC/Marist poll conducted last week.
===Link=== 

====1NC Shell==== 
Spending on transportation infrastructure is unpopular with the public.
Ken Orski, editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford, and JD @ Harvard Law, 2-5-2012, NewGeography, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

Independents will backlash to new spending – swings the election
Douglas Schoen, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-2012, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A
Neither party focuses on issues that matter most to people: reviving the economy,
AND
their concerns will almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.

====2NC Deficit Spending Link==== 
Key to swing states
Walsh, ‘12 [Kenneth, Chief White House Correspondent, US News and World Report, USNews.com, 5/30, lexis]

3. Pivot to swing voters. Once he is formally nominated, Romney needs
AND
voters that President Obama has been a failure, especially on the economy.

Polarization proves—republicans and democrats will vote ideologically
Woodruff, ‘12 [2/29/2012, Judy, Woodruff: Will Independents Return to Obama in 2012?, The Rundown, p. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2012/02/woodruff-will-independents-return-to-obama-2012.html)
There's a lot of talk thrown around in every election about the influence of independents
AND
voting group is one story we plan to watch throughout this exciting election.

Deficit spending outweighs—saps theoretical support
Berstein Research, widely recognized as Wall Street’s premier sell-side research firm, 2-3-2012, http://www.fraternalalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/Washington-Research-2012-Preview-Transportation-Funding.pdf
Expected passage of a long-term aviation financing bill next week gives ground transportation
AND
but does not want to foot the bill out of their own wallets.

Deficit spending is more important for all constiuencies
Pew, ‘11 [1/20/11, Pew Research Center, http://www.people-press.org/2011/01/20/about-the-surveys/]
Reducing the budget deficit, or national debt, rated as a top policy priority
AND
of Republicans. This is the case for dealing with obesity as well.

Wasteful spending alienates voters in Ohio and Florida.
Jasinowski, 12
(Jerry Jasinowski, an economist and author, served as President of the National Association of Manufacturers for 14 years and later The Manufacturing Institute, Political Machine, 6/8, lexis)
Second, the attempt to recall Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, in which the Democrats
AND
deficits reduced. This will spread to other states like Ohio and Florida.

====2NC Independents Link==== 
Only the aff collapses independent support—deficits are the independents touchstone
Schoen, ‘10 [7/11/10, Douglas, Schoen, who served as a pollster for President Bill Clinton, is author of "Declaring Independence: The Beginning of the End of the Two-Party System.", NY Daily News, http://articles.nydailynews.com/2010-07-11/news/29438716_1_fiscal-discipline-swing-voters-president-obama]
What Bam can learn from Bill: President Clinton's ex pollster tells Obama how to
AND
, regardless of the impact on the deficits, are prescribing electoral suicide.

Spending alienates swing state independents --- Obama is leading with them now
Galston, ‘12 [5/10/2012, William A., “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins”, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf]

According to the 2008 exit polls, Obama carried Independents by eight points—52
AND
or the suggestion that the wealthy don’t pay their fair share of taxes.
====2NC Infrastructure Spending Link==== 

Key symbolism to transportation
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, ’09 [5/18/09, Jon Schmitz, “Congress members submit wish lists for transit”, http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/transportation/congress-members-submit-wish-lists-for-transit-342377/?print=1]
"I think that transparency is a good thing. Some of the
AND
wasteful pork barrel spending.

Most visible earmarking
Natter, ‘08 [Ari, Columnist @ Bloomberg news, Ranking Member Transportation Committee, Pacific Shipper, 11/3, lexis]
Perhaps more than any national campaign in recent history, the major candidates have staked
AND
said Robert Dunphy, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute.

Obama gets blame for “wasteful spending” but doesn’t get credit for local economic gains in key swing states– link only one way – especially in Virginia and Ohio
Skelley, ‘12
Geoffrey Skelley, Political Analyst, U.Va. Center for Politics, 5/23, http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/articles/unemployment-update-who-gets-the-credit/
So far, the Obama campaign has run ads promoting the president’s handling of the
AND
average. In this close election, Obama has little margin for error.

The aff’s studies are flawed – support for transportation doesn’t apply to specific policies.
Hemingway, 12 (Mark, Editor @ Weekly Standard, 2/27, lexis)
This may come as a shock to many pollsters and much of the press corps
AND
the political class? They're more likely to if they read this book.

The media will spin the plan to be unpopular.
A.G.C. ’11 [5/19/11, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity” – THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA – AGC’s Case for Infrastructure & Reform in based in large part on comments from leaders, including those who participated in a March 2, 2011 panel discussion hosted by the association and The Weekly Standard, including Reason Foundation’s Robert Poole, Virginia Secretary of Transportation Sean Connaughton, Oklahoma Congressman James Lankford and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Bruce Josten. http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf]
Adding to Americans’ frustration, most of what they learn about the federal government’s role
AND
20 years to complete, meanwhile, primarily because of the substantial regulatory burdens

Public thinks government fails at transportation infrastructure investment
Alden, ’12 [Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Edward Alden, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere”, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]
Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads
AND
taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.

====2NC NIB Link==== 
The National Infrastructure bank is highly unpopular among voters—experts say
Kredell 4/17— Reporter for USC News [Matthew, “Transit Policy Is Pivotal on Road to the White House” 4/17/2012, USC News, “http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/]
It appears this year will see another basic extension of subsidizing the highway trust fund
AND
by turning that 18.4 cents per gallon into a state tax.

====2NC HSR Link==== 
Voters dislike the aff – perceived as slow and costly.
Orski, 12
Ken Orski, Publisher, Innovation Briefs, 1/19, http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2011/10/paying-for-roads-with-drilling.php?comments=expandall#comments
All of the comments so far have missed the central point in the high-
AND
facilities of Class One freight railroads in selected corridors used by Amtrak trains.”


Voters reject the high spending cost of high-speed rail
Brian Koenig, 6-7-2012, “California Voters Turn on High-Speed Rail Project, The New American,” p. [[http://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/politics/item/11646-california-voters-turn-on-high-speed-rail-project]])
After enduring a series of financial and logistical hiccups, California’s landmark high-speed
AND
And a startling 59 percent affirmed that they now would vote against it.
====2NC Foreign Policy Link==== 
Focusing on foreign policy is perceived as a trade off with domestic issues—causes Obama to lose.
Shear, 11 (Michael D. Shear, 10/21/11, “The Value of Foreign Policy Victories for Obama”, http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/10/21/can-obama-win-on-foreign-policy/)//EM//
//Surveys suggest that people do give Mr. Obama high marks on foreign policy despite//
//AND//
//backfire if people think the president is eager to avoid discussing the economy.//

//Focus on foreign policy is perceived as trading off with the economy—that’s more important.//
//Rove and Gilespie, 12 (Karl Rove, former deputy chief of staff, AND Ed Gillespie, former counselor to U.S. President George W. Bush, March/April 2012, “How to Beat Obama”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/27/how_to_beat_obama?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full)//EM
In an American election focused on a lousy economy and high unemployment, conventional wisdom
AND
world stage and a commander in chief who projects strength, not weakness.

Less than 5% of the public supports foreign policy focus—80% are focused on the economy.
Fontain, 12 (Richard Fontaine, senior advisor at the Center for a New American Security and teaches the politics of national security in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. Former member of the National Security Council at the State Departmet and foreign policy advisor to Senator John McCain, including during the 2008 presidential election, 1/30/12, “No, foreign policy matters in elections -- even in years when people think it doesn’t”, http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/01/30/no_foreign_policy_matters_in_elections_even_in_years_when_people_think_it_doesn_t)//EM
As your post and nearly every article on the subject notes, "everyone knows
AND
ending the war in Iraq, pocketbook issues will dominate the campaign.


====2NC Virginia Link==== 
Fiscal restraint is specifically top issue for Virginia voters - Wasteful spending perception swings the vote
Pershing, 12
(Ben Pershing, author of Capitol Briefing, joined washingtonpost.com from the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call, where he worked for a decade, serving as Deputy Editor, Washington Post, 5/9, lexis)
In the 13 months since Kaine entered the race, the two campaigns have combined
AND
health care, an issue that Republicans have sought to use against Kaine.

Opposition to wasteful spending even stronger in Virginia than nationally - it’s a key election issue
Fram, 12 (Alan, Columnist @ Salon.com, Detroit Free Press, 3/7, lexis)
TOP ISSUES: The economy is the No. 1 issue for voters in every
AND
Tennessee said they were angry with the way the federal government is working.

====2NC AT Jobs Link Turn==== 
The public still hates the plan – jobs aren’t perceived.
Bergsten, 9
FRED BERGSTEN, Director, Peterson Institute for International Economics, International Economy, 3/22, lexis)
The problem the President will be facing is that Americans do not like government spending
AND
President's grades will be good only if the public begins to believe this.

Unemployment doesn’t influence elections
Paarlberg, ‘12 [9/3/2012, Michael Paarlberg,“Jobs: the key factor that will decide the US election. Or not; No president since Roosevelt has been re-elected with jobless numbers so high. But voters' economic sentiment defies forecast,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/sep/03/jobs-key-factor-decide-us-election )

On paper, this election should be Mitt Romney's to lose. Forget about the
AND
in retrospect. Predicting contests in advance, they tend to do worse.

====2NC AT Climate Link Turn==== 
Environmental issues not relevant
Lee, ‘12 [2/14/12, Oliver Lee, “Why Politicians Are Afraid to Vote Pro-Environment; As presidential campaigns heat up, preaching green has become a political liability,” [[http://www.takepart.com/article/2012/02/14/environmentalists-cool-heels-campaign-heats]] )

From the start, the GOP's campaign trail of attrition has seemed like a power
AND
, even if it means taking a backseat on the issue until November.

Their link turn doesn’t apply to adaptation
Borick and Rabe, ’12 [May 2012, Number 46, Christopher Borick is an Associate Professor and Director of the Muhlenberg College Institute of Public Opinion. Barry G. Rabe is a nonresident senior fellow in Governance Studies at The Brookings Institution and the J. Ira and Nikki Harris Family Professor at the Gerald R. Ford School. Issues in Government Studies, “Americans Cool on Geoengineering Approaches to Addressing Climate Change”. http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/30%20geo%20engineering%20rabe%20borick/30%20geo%20engineering%20rabe%20borick.pdf]
With expanding concern that climate change is already impacting environments around the planet there has
AND
two thirds of Americans disagreeing with such a claim (see Table Two).

This card is in the context of renewable energy development and emissions reductions
Clayton, ’9/7 [09/07/12, Mark Clayton, “Climate change: why it could be a hot topic on the campaign trail”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/President/2012/0907/Climate-change-why-it-could-be-a-hot-topic-on-the-campaign-trail]
Similarly large numbers support renewable energy development as a way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
AND
, which polls show are quite receptive to that message, Romm says.

====2NC AT Economy Link Turn==== 
Perception of economic benefit won’t influence voters.
Cook ‘12
(Charlie, Cook Political Report, National Journal, 4/26, [[http://cookpolitical.com/node/12429]])
If you focus on the economy, though, the situation looks more complicated.
AND
change between now and Election Day. The economy will determine this election.

The economy isn’t key when the incumbent faces a challenger.
Roth, 12 – Roy K., Brigham Young University (“Does the Economy Determine the President? A Regression Model For Predicting US Presidential Elections,” Undergraduate Economic Review, vol. 8, is. 1, http://digitalcommons.iwu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1172&context=uer)
Many Americans believe that the economy determines who wins the presidency. There is a
AND
covered in this paper, no third-party candidates received any electoral votes

====2NC AT Infrastructure Link Turn==== 
Their Halsley evidence is not about the aff and goes negative
a. Public thinks transportation money should be used primarily for things that aren’t the aff
Rockefeller Foundation, STUDY THEIR EVIDENCE CITES ’11 [January/February 2011, “The Rockefeller Foundation Infrastructure Survey”, http://www.rockefellerfoundation.org/uploads/files/80e28432-0790-4d42-91ec-afb6d11febee.pdf]
Voters’ top priorities for additional infrastructure investments are safer streets and having more transportation options
AND
(66%) would benefit from an expanded and improved public transportation system.

b. Public only supports reformed government transportation spending—the aff doesn’t do reform
Rockefeller Foundation, STUDY THEIR EVIDENCE CITES ’11 [January/February 2011, “The Rockefeller Foundation Infrastructure Survey”, http://www.rockefellerfoundation.org/uploads/files/80e28432-0790-4d42-91ec-afb6d11febee.pdf]
A large majority of voters see room for improvement in how the government spends money
AND
on maintaining existing transportation systems before building new ones (86% favor).

Your survey votes negative—support for infrastructure investment doesn’t apply to the federal level
Samuel, ’11 [9/18/11, Peter Samuel, “HNTB survey shows Mica, LaHood out of touch on tolls for Interstates rule”, http://www.tollroadsnews.com/node/5483]
This raises the question of whether the people are smarter than the politicians! Another
AND
regional authorities: 28% 3. US Department of Transportation: 24%

====2NC AT Latinos Link Turn==== 
Most of the Hispanic vote is in California and Texas – they aren’t in contention.
Silver 6/19
Nate Silver June 19, 2012 Hispanic Voters Less Plentiful in Swing States http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/06/19/hispanic-voters-less-plentiful-in-swing-states/
However, almost 40 percent of the Hispanic vote was in one of just two
AND
these states just aren’t likely to sway the Electoral College outcome in 2012.

Not in Ohio or Virginia – the only states that matter.
Silver 6/19
Nate Silver June 19, 2012 Hispanic Voters Less Plentiful in Swing States http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/06/19/hispanic-voters-less-plentiful-in-swing-states/
The way that the [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/06/07/election-forecast-obama-begins-with-tenuous-advantage/|FiveThirtyEight presidential forecasting model]] measures the competitiveness of a state is
AND
. Each of these has a below-average number of Hispanic voters.


====2NC AT Swing States Link Turn==== 
National polls more accurate than “battleground state by state” polls
Bernstein, 12
Jonathan Bernstein is a political scientist who contributes to the Washington Post, Star Tribune, 6/9, [[http://m.startribune.com/opinion/?id=158323795&c=y]])
But much of what we think we know about these key states, which switch
AND
we'll look at the national polls to find out what's really going on.

Can’t predict what the swing states will be.
Bernstein, 12
Jonathan Bernstein is a political scientist who contributes to the Washington Post, Star Tribune, 6/9, [[http://m.startribune.com/opinion/?id=158323795&c=y]])
It's true that some states will perpetually be competitive, but over time, some
AND
be Colorado, Ohio, or any of a dozen or more possibilities.


====2NC AT Ohio Link Turn==== 
Wasteful spending alienates voters in Ohio and Florida.
Jasinowski, 12
(Jerry Jasinowski, an economist and author, served as President of the National Association of Manufacturers for 14 years and later The Manufacturing Institute, Political Machine, 6/8, lexis)
Second, the attempt to recall Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, in which the Democrats
AND
deficits reduced. This will spread to other states like Ohio and Florida.

Ohio Not key
Sabato, 12 (Larry, UVA Center For Politics, 4/26, [[http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/articles/plan-of-attack-obama-romney-and-the-electoral-college/]])
Would winning Ohio guarantee the presidency for Romney? Not necessarily. Richard Nixon won
AND
a considerably larger share of its 2008 votes than did Florida or Ohio.
====2NC AT Independents Not Key==== 
Independents key
a. Polarization proves—republicans and democrats will vote ideologically
Woodruff, ‘12 [2/29/2012, Judy, Woodruff: Will Independents Return to Obama in 2012?, The Rundown, p. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2012/02/woodruff-will-independents-return-to-obama-2012.html)
There's a lot of talk thrown around in every election about the influence of independents
AND
voting group is one story we plan to watch throughout this exciting election.

b. Key to swing states
Walsh, ‘12 [Kenneth, Chief White House Correspondent, US News and World Report, USNews.com, 5/30, lexis]
3. Pivot to swing voters. Once he is formally nominated, Romney needs
AND
voters that President Obama has been a failure, especially on the economy.

c. Numbers—they are 40% of the electorate
Khan, ‘12 [1/9/2012, Huma, Independent Voters on the rise But Do They Matter?, ABC News, p. http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/01/independent-voters-on-the-rise-but-do-they-matter/)
A day before the nation’s first primary in New Hampshire, Republican front-runner
AND
done so in ABC News-Washington Post polls dating back to 1981.

Independents are key
Galston, ‘12 [5/10/2012, William A., “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins”, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf]

Independent voters in the most competitive states may be the quintessential swing group, perhaps
AND
independents in the states where either candidate has a reasonable chance of winning..

====2NC AT Map 21==== 

MAP-21 only restored current levels of funding – not a new measure
ARTBA, 7/24
[American Road and Transportation Builders Association, est. 1902 – represents more than $200,000 million in annual economic activity and sustains 2.5 million jobs7/24/12, <http://www.artba.org/mediafiles/artba-summary-of-map-21.pdf>]
The surface transportation reauthorization legislation authored by Senate Environment and Public ¶ Works (EPW
AND
—current ¶ investment levels plus inflation and a two-year duration.

MAP-21 was solely a necessary REAUTHORIZATION – different from a brand new stimulus bill
Levinson, 3/7
[Marc Levinson, Coordinator and Section Research Manager,Congressional Research Service, 3/7/2012, <http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42350.pdf>]
Legislation to reauthorize federal surface transportation programs is under consideration in both ¶ houses of
AND
—to spend their federal highway funds for many of the same purposes.
====2NC AT Highway Bill==== 
Recent Bill didn’t impact election – but the plan still does.
Reuters 6/29/12 (US Congress to vote on transportation, student loan bill, http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/06/29/usa-transportation-idINL2E8HS60520120629)
Congressional negotiators have cleared the way for votes on legislation covering transportation construction, student
AND
by the Democratic-led Senate that is supported by the Obama administration.


====2NC AT No Blame==== 
Wrong
a. Obama will push for it despite opposition
Freemark, ’12 [2/14/12, Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic –Feb 14th – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/02/14/the-presidents-budget-full-of-ambition-short-on-congressional-support/]
The executive branch’s proposed spending for FY 2013 would greatly expand spending on transit and
AND
the nation’s rail and bus systems — if we choose to take it.

b. He’ll use the plan promote himself
Freemark, ’11 [02/08/11, Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – February 8th, 2011 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/02/08/the-white-house-stakes-its-political-capital-on-a-massive-intercity-rail-plan/]
Whatever the immediate success of the President’s proposal, Mr. Obama is making evident
AND
the beginning of our effort to, once again, lead the future.”

c. He’ll get blame for everything
Teitelman ’11 [08/1/11, Robert Teitelman is editor in chief
AND
degrees in international affairs and journalism from Columbia University. “The Deal”]

The debt ceiling looks like it will be raised, though
AND
when arrayed against the extremes. That's the real worry here.

====2NC AT Deficit Spending Now==== 
Status quo deficit issues are irrelevant—Obama is courting independents with new deficit plans
Rogers, ’11 [July 6, 2011, David Rogers, “Barack Obama's bolder approach to debt courts independent voters”, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0711/58462.html#ixzz26sxuNG8s]
As President Barack Obama meets Thursday with fractious House and Senate leaders, his new
AND
Republicans on board and lifting the economy to generate revenues for the future.

====2NC AT No Vote Switch==== 
Voters can still easily switch
Ettinger, 6/12/12
Yoruam Ettinger, Chairman of Special Projects at the Ariel Center for Policy Research. Formerly the Minister for Congressional Affairs to Israel's Embassy in Washington, DC, “Obama’s Steep Uphill Reelection Battle,” 6-12-2012 (http://www.jewishpress.com/indepth/analysis/yoram-ettinger-obamas-steep-uphill-reelection-battle/2012/06/12/)
12. The history of US
AND
could determine the outcome of the election either way.

1 in 4 voters could flip---our link matters
Bloomberg News 8/31/12
One in Four Voters Are ‘Persuadable,’ Poll Analysis Finds
http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-08-31/one-in-four-voters-are-persuadable-poll-analysis-finds
One in four registered voters may be open to changing their position in the race
AND
voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.

====2NC AT Agencies Shield==== 
Congress has to give explicit approval to agency action
Super, law prof, 7—law prof, U Maryland. (David and Graham Martin, Judicial Deference to Administrative Agencies and Its Limits, Journal of Poverty Law and Policy V. 40 11-12)
If, however, the agency does not act through formal or informal rule making
AND
regulation pursuant to her powers under the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.27

===Russia Relations Impact=== 
====1NC Russia Relations Impact==== 
Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations
Weir, 3/27/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection)
Russian experts say there's little doubt the Kremlin would like to see Obama re-
AND
If Obama wins the election, it seems likely the reset will continue."

US-Russia relations are vital to preventing nuclear war and solving every global issue.
Allison & Blackwill, ‘11
[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]
That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S
AND
.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.

====2NC Russian Relations Overview==== 
Russian war is a controlling impact – accidental war causes all out nuclear annihilation and its an existential risk – that’s Collins – their scenarios aren’t existential
Bostrum, March 2002 (Nick – prof of philosophy at Oxford University and recipient of the Gannon Award, Existential Risks, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in
AND
preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

1% risk means you vote negative
Bostrum 2005 (Nick – prof of philosophy at Oxford University and recipient of the Gannon Award, Transcribed by Packer, 4:38-6:12, p. http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/44, accessed 10/20/07)
Now if we think about what just reducing the probability of human extinction by just
AND
be lost if we went extinct it should still be a high priority.

US-Russia relations serves as a filter for the risk of the aff – cooperation allows us to resolve threats and prevent conflict
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, 7 (“Why America and Russia Need Each Other,” 2-2-2007, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=events.event_summary&event_id=215228)
In spite of these disagreements, Trenin emphasized that Russia and theUnited States need one
AND
lead to a more stable world, and would enhance both countries’ security.

====2NC Turns Terrorism==== 
Relations solve terror and nuclear proliferation preventing extinction
Perry and Scowcrof ’09 [William and brent, Chairs CFR, april, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy”]
Despite nearly universal opposition, North Korea has developed a small nuclear arsenal, and
AND
cooperating on future programs that require such a high level of mutual trust.

====2NC Turns Warming==== 
Relations solve warming
Atlantic 08 [November 2008, Medvedev Spoils the Party, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama]

Like it or not, the United States cannot solve crucial global problems without Russian
AND
indispensable nation” with which to face a volatile future arm in arm.

====2NC Accidents==== 
Relations solve accidents
Martin ‘8 [2008, Matthew, is a program officer in Policy Analysis and Dialogue at the Muscatine-based Stanley Foundation, “Avoiding an Accidental Nuclear War”, http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498]
Common sense might indicate that better relations between the two countries would mean that less
AND
apply their smarts and understanding in order to avoid an accidental nuclear war.

Extinction
American Prospect ‘1
The bitter disputes over national missile defense [NMD] have obscured a related but
AND
would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."
====2NC Romney Kills Relations==== 
Romney will uniquely isolate Russia – ends interdepedence
Bandow, 4/23/2012 (Doug – senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Romney and Russia: Complicating American Relations, National Interest, p. http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/romney-russia-complicating-american-relationships-6836)
Mitt Romney has become the inevitable Republican presidential candidate. He’s hoping to paint Barack
AND
However, Washington should not give Moscow additional reasons to indulge its paranoia.

====2NC AT Putin Dooms==== 
Obama can fix relations after the election
Lukyanov 5/10 – Editor-in-Chief of the “Russia in Global Affairs” journal published in Russian and English with participation of Foreign Affairs (Fyodor, senior member of the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, member of the Presidential Council on Human Rights and Civic Society Institutions, 5/10/12, “Uncertain World: Putin and Washington: Is Conflict Inevitable?” Ria Novosti, http://en.rian.ru/columnists/20120510/173370687.html)

Vladimir Putin, who was inaugurated as president of Russia on May 7, has
AND
I understand. I will transmit this information to Vladimir,” Medvedev replied.

Romney election tanks Russian relations-and emboldens Putin
Larison, 6/20 [Daniel, Ph.D. in history and contributing editor for The American Conservative, “The Presidential Election’s Effects on U.S.-Russian Relations,” http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/the-presidential-elections-effects-on-u-s-russian-relations/]
Andrew Weiss considers the reasons for U.S.-Russian tensions, and finds
AND
with Russia would make it extremely easy for Putin to do just that.

Relations are high despite disagreements
Ria Novosti 7/30 (7/30/12, “‘Everything’s OK’ in U.S.-Russian Relations – Medvedev,” http://en.ria.ru/russia/20120730/174862459.html)
MOSCOW, July 30 (RIA Novosti) – Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has
AND
who is to blame for the continuing violence in the Middle Eastern country.

===Iran Strike Impact=== 
====1NC Iran Strike Impact==== 
Obama key to preventing a US or Israeli strike on Iran
Traub, 12 [January/February 2012, James Traub is a journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]
A Republican president would thus move American foreign policy not from the left to the
AND
. could thus pay a very grave price for a relatively modest gain.

Extinction
Hirsch 5 - Professor @ UC San Diego (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)
The Bush administration has put together all the elements it needs to justify the impending
AND
of the Hiroshima bomb, enough to erase Earth's population many times over.

====2NC Turns Russia Relations==== 
Strikes ruin US-Russian ties
Pepe Escobar is the author of Globalistan: How the Globalized World is Dissolving into Liquid War (Nimble Books, 2007) and Red Zone Blues: a snapshot of Baghdad during the surge. He is the roving correspondent for Asia Times and an analyst for the Real News – Asia Times – 10-26-07 – http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/IJ26Ak06.html
A high-level diplomatic source in Tehran tells Asia Times Online that essentially Putin
AND
appease it except a political/diplomatic solution for the Iranian nuclear dossier.

Iran strikes suck Russia into global conflict
RNVA ‘9
The Romanian National Vanguard News Agency is an independent international new agency – in this instance they are reporting Russian and Chinese reactions to an Israeli strikes – “Russia and China Warn US That Israeli Attack On Iran Means World War” – July 19th – 2009 – http://news.ronatvan.com/2009/07/19/russia-and-china-warn-us-that-israeli-attack-on-iran-means-world-war/
A chilling report circulating in the Kremlin today states that President Medvedev and Chinese President
AND
stated have no right being in the Middle East in the first place.

Strikes cause war with Russia
Tarpley 2005 (Webster Griffin,- activist and historian, 8/29/ http://inn.globalfreepress.com/modules/news/article.php?storyid=743 )
In the case of Iran, the use of nuclear weapons by the US would
AND
neocons is the very midsummer of madness, and it must be stopped.

====2NC Turns China Cooperation==== 
Iran strikes crushes US-Sino ties, and suck China into global conflict
RNVA ‘9
The Romanian National Vanguard News Agency is an independent international new agency – in this instance they are reporting Russian and Chinese reactions to an Israeli strikes – “Russia and China Warn US That Israeli Attack On Iran Means World War” – July 19th – 2009 – http://news.ronatvan.com/2009/07/19/russia-and-china-warn-us-that-israeli-attack-on-iran-means-world-war/

A chilling report circulating in the Kremlin today states that President Medvedev and Chinese President
AND
stated have no right being in the Middle East in the first place.

====2NC Turns Oil==== 
Strikes cause oil prices to spike
Paul Kelly 7/2/08 (Editor, The Australian, “All must lean on Iran”)

There is, however, no denying that the US and Iran are on a
AND
the ascendancy under Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defence Secretary Robert Gates.

====2NC Turns Economy==== 
Strikes destroy the economy and cause oil shocks
Poor 10 (Jeff. Staffer for the Business and Media Institute. “Dr. Doom Roubini to Synagogue Audience: Israeli Air Strike on Iran Would Lead to Another Global Recession” Business and Media Institute, 5/14/10, lexis)
With European economies on the brink and other emerging markets slowing down, is there
AND
to some pros and cons that should be something we keep in mind.”

Strikes crush global econ
Hedges ‘6
(Chris Hedges is former Middle East bureau chief for The New York Times and author of the bestseller “War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” -- “Bush’s Nuclear Apocalypse” – October 9th – available via TruthDig -- http://www.itszone.co.uk/zone0/viewtopic.php?p=300562&sid=c296082a93092430f9a238f8a00a928b)

An attack on Iran will ignite the Middle East. The loss of Iranian oil
AND
and Sunnis, for the first time, unite against their foreign occupiers.

Strikes melt-down US economy – China stops debt servicing
RNVA ‘9
The Romanian National Vanguard News Agency is an independent international new agency – in this instance they are reporting Russian and Chinese reactions to an Israeli strikes – “Russia and China Warn US That Israeli Attack On Iran Means World War” – July 19th – 2009 – http://news.ronatvan.com/2009/07/19/russia-and-china-warn-us-that-israeli-attack-on-iran-means-world-war/
Most ominously in these reports though, both Russia and China state that they will
AND
2 Trillion in reserves are the only thing keeping the US economy afloat.

====2NC Turns Terrorism==== 
Iran strikes crank successful war on terrorism
Logan, foreign policy analyst and member of the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, 2007
(Justin, USA Today, March, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=8180 gjm)
The next unintended consequence would be the effect Iranian civilian casualties would have on American
AND
that Osama bin Laden’s predictions about U.S. intentions were correct.

====2NC Turns Hegemony==== 
Iran strikes destroy hegemony
Stephen Lendman is a Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization and frequently writes for Global Research Reports –Global Research, March 7, 2007 – cross-posted at: http://www.talkingpointsmemo.com/talk/blogs/911review.
Attacking Iran will just make things far worse. It would be a fanatical "
AND
colonizer's boot with the US having the biggest barrels and largest shoe sizes.

====2NC AT Romney Won’t Strike==== 
Romney will strike Iran-Advisors pressuring-Wont seek congressional authorization
Berman, 12 [Ari, Investigative Journalism Fellow at The Nation Institute, contributing writer for The Nation, “Romney: Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb Iran, 6/19, http://www.thenation.com/blog/168478/romney-bomb-bomb-bomb-bomb-bomb-iran]
Over the weekend, Jamie Fly and Bill Kristol, two high-profile neoconservatives
AND
peace with Iran, then Romney and his ilk want yet another war.

Advisors will push Romney to strike
Berman, 12 [Ari, Investigative Journalism Fellow at The Nation Institute, contributing writer for The Nation, “Mitt Romney’s Neocon War Cabinet,” 5/2, http://www.thenation.com/print/article/167683/mitt-romneys-neocon-war-cabinet]
Romney is loath to mention Bush on the campaign trail, for obvious reasons,
AND
, which is chillingly reminiscent of the world Obama inherited from Bush. In

====2NC AT Obama Will Strike==== 
Obama will resist military options on Iran
Gause and Lustick, 2012 (http://www.mepc.org/journal/middle-east-policy-archives/america-and-regional-powers-transforming-middle-east,
F. Gregory Gause, III, and Ian S. Lustick, Dr. Gause is a professor of political science at the University of Vermont and the author of The International Relations of the Persian Gulf (Cambridge University Press, 2010). Dr. Lustick is the Bess W. Heyman Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of Trapped in the War on Terror (University of Pennsylvania Press, 2006).,)

We think it is. Despite this being an election year, when the leverage
AND
, much as the administration's approach to the Iranian nuclear issue has been.

====2NC AT Israel Will Strike==== 
Israel won’t strike
The Times of Israel, 4/10/2012 (Israel to reportedly hold off Iran strike until after US election, p. http://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-to-hold-off-iran-strike-until-after-us-election/)
According to US sources, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has agreed to hold off a
AND
point where an Israeli strike would not be effective in knocking them out.

No Strikes before the election
National Journal Subscriber, 3-4-2012 http://www.nationaljournal.com/whitehouse/obama-plays-hawk-in-chief-on-iran-20120304

But after delivering those more martial pledges, Obama then tried to tamp down what
AND
a European ban on Iranian oil imports will take hold,” he said.

====2NC AT No Escalation==== 

Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.
Chossudovsky -06 (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)
The Bush Administration has embarked upon a military adventure which threatens the future of humanity
AND
basin, eventually leading to the destabilization and conquest of the Russian Federation.

===Climate Change Impact=== 

====1NC Climate Change Impact==== 
Obama key to global climate deal
Geman, 1/5/2012 (Ben, Report says global climate deal hinges on Obama reelection, The Hill, p. http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/202539-report-global-climate-deal-hinges-on-obama-reelection-)
Prospects for striking a binding global climate deal by 2015 are probably toast if President
AND
the hard task of negotiating a new global agreement by 2015 almost impossible.

Extinction
Moon 10/25/2009 (Ban Ki – secretary general of the United Nations, We Can Do It, New York Times, p. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/26/opinion/26iht-edban.html)
Every day, the critical December summit in Copenhagen grows closer. All agree that
AND
deforestation. India and China are implanting programs to curb emissions as well.

====2NC Turns Structural Violence==== 
Warming is a d-rule – independent ethical obligation
Donald A Brown 2002 – Associate Professor of Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law at Penn State University (American Heat: Ethical Problems with the United States’ Response to Global Warming, Rowman and Littlefield publishers, inc.)
Yet there is little evidence that awareness of the urgency of the climate change problems
AND
public attention from an ethical framing of human-induced climate change issues.

Catastrophic climate change should be measured as the highest priority – do not discount the unpredictable impact it will have on future generations. This is distinctly different from impacts that do not threaten human survival
Scorse 8 – Professor of International Studies
Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book
Even though the science now confirms that human activity is contributing to global warming and
AND
should revert back to the basic arguments for choosing the proper discount rate.


Policymakers cannot take the risk based on simple uncertainty over the science
Cerutti 7 – Professor of Political Philosophy
Furio Cerutti, Professor of Political Philosophy at the University of Florence, “Global Challenges for Leviathan: A Political Philosophy of Nuclear Weapons and Global Warming.” Lexington Books. p. 31
The second feature of the impasse is irreversibility, which is peculiar to the worst
AND
different approach, which will be looked into in the last three chapters.


Developed countries are morally and ethically obligated to address climate change
Donald A Brown 1/3/2012 – Associate Professor of Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law at Penn State (Ethical Analysis of the Climate Change Disinformation Campaign: Introduction to A Series, Rock Ethic Institute, [[http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2012/01/ethical-analysis-of-the-climate-change-disinformation-campaign-introduction-to-a-series.html]])
Climate change must be understood to be at its core an ethical problem because:
AND
Yet these tactics provide important lessons about norms that should guide reasonable skepticism.


===Liberalism Impact=== 
====1NC Liberalism Impact==== 
Romney victory destroys social progress – reverse causal ev
Borosage and Vanden Heuvel 7-25-12, Robert L. Borosage is the founder and president of the Institute for America’s Future, regular blogger on the Huffington Post and articles have appeared in the Washington Post, the New York Times and the Philadelphia Inquirer. Katrina vanden Heuvel is the editor of The Nation. She is a frequent guest on numerous television programs. “A Politics for the 99 Percent” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/168264/politics-99-percent]])
This year will feature the most ideologically polarized election since the Reagan-Carter face
AND
policies, and winning the broader battle for reform, are vastly greater.


Mass genocide and extremism is inevitable where human rights are lacking.
Hoffman 2004 - Chair of the International Executive Committee of Amnesty International (Paul, HUMAN RIGHTS QUARTERLY, November 2004, ProQuest)
The United States-led "war on terrorism" is premised on the notion
AND
violations in the future and confound efforts to bring violators to justice.6

====2NC Gay Rights Impact==== 



Expansion of gay rights is vital to challenge heterosexual norms that underpin all violence and discrimination.
Tatchell 89 (Peter, co-founder and leading activist in the queer rights direct action group OutRage!, founding member of the AIDS Coalition To Unleash Power London, "GAY LIBERATION IS CENTRAL TO HUMAN EMANCIPATION," http://www.petertatchell.net/masculinity/gay%20liberation.htm)
Lesbian and gay liberation is of critical importance to the broader project of human emancipation
AND
emancipation of the whole of humanity from all forms of oppression and subjugation.

====2NC Court Nominations==== 
Obama re-election means he would drastically shift the court Left
CNS News 12 (Mark Sherman, “Obama Re-Election Could Alter Stance of Federal Appeals Courts, Supreme Court,” 2/5/12, [[http://cnsnews.com/news/article/obama-re-election-could-alter-stance-federal-appeals-courts-supreme-court/]])

WASHINGTON (AP) — A second term for President Barack Obama would allow him
AND
Court of Appeals, which had been dominated by conservative, Republican appointees.

Courtpacking would decide many critical upcoming cases for minorities
The Nation 4/11 (Ari Berman, contributing writer for The Nation magazine and an Investigative Journalism Fellow at The Nation Institute, “Why the Supreme Court Matters,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/167350/why-supreme-court-matters]])

When President Gerald Ford nominated him in 1975, Justice John Paul Stevens occupied the
AND
or argued right before the presidential election that are so freighted with politics.”

A conservative takeover of the court would rollback entitlements that the poor rely on
Huffington Post 4/17 (“What a Conservative Judicial Revolution Looks Like” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-kendall/what-a-conservative-judic_b_1432795.html?view=print&comm_ref=false]])

As the Supreme Court's conservative majority stands poised at the edge of a cliff --
AND
a part of trade regulation since the nation's Founding. And so on.

===Romney Impacts=== 
====2NC Romney Kills Economy==== 
Romney win collapses the economy
Krugman, ’12 [5/31/12, Tierney Seed Interviewing, “Mitt Romney Doesn't Mean Anything He's Saying”, http://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2012/05/31/paul-krugman-mitt-romney-doesnt-mean-anything-hes-saying-?page=2]
First of all, the question is: What does Romney actually believe? I
AND
, will send us down the road to a European-type slump.

Romney win ends all stimulus measures
Plotz 8/14 [David Plotz is the Editor of Slate. He's the author of The Genius Factory: The Curious History of the Nobel Prize Sperm Bank and Good Book; 8/14/12; The New New Deal; http://tinyurl.com/c4smlwz]
When will Americans be able to look out and recognize measurable, wonderful gains from
AND
presidents tend to try to keep their campaign promises. Obama certainly did.

====2NC Romney Kills Infrastructure==== 
Turns Case: Republican deficit reduction strategies would eliminate funding for the plan
Davenport 8/20 [David Davenport is a contributor to Forbes magazine, a national wealth management publication; 8/20/2012; “With The Paul Ryan Pick, Big Government Becomes The Big Issue”; http://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddavenport/2012/08/20/with-the-paul-ryan-pick-big-government-becomes-the-big-issue/]
Paul Ryan, as Chair of the House Budget Committee and the guy with serious
AND
at an alarming rate, Obama is staying with his big government theme.

==Ohio DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Obama winning Ohio now because Independent voters that determine Ohio favor his economic policy
Presta 8/17
President Obama is leading with independents voters in battleground state Ohio, ELECTIONS 2012AUGUST 17, 2012BY: JOHN PRESTA, http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-is-leading-with-independents-voters-battleground-state-ohio
Public Policy Polling (PPP) released its latest poll in the key battleground state
AND
to win without Ohio, although it would still be a daunting task.
(73.7 percent)—that favor Obama now, before his national show to showcase himself has started.

Romney will strike Iran
[Mitt Romney has stated that he is willing to use military force to strike Iranian nuclear facilities]
Pelley 8/24 [Scott Pelley is a reporter for the CBS evening news and interviewed Romney in this article; 8/24/12; http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18563_162-57500225/romney-nuclear-iran-unacceptable/; http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18563_162-57500225/romney-nuclear-iran-unacceptable/;
Scott Pelley: Is it worth going to war to stop an Iranian nuclear weapon
AND
Obama, and he believes that Obama was born in the United States.

Iran strikes escalates to a nuclear world war.
Chossudovsky, 12/26/2011 (Michel, Preparing to attack Iran with Nuclear Weapons, Global Research, p. http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=28355)
An attack on Iran would have devastating consequences, It would unleash an all out
AND
unthinkable": a nuclear holocaust over a large part of the Middle East.

===2NC Uniqueness=== 
Obama winning Ohio – Ohio Key
Rutenberg / Zeleny 9/1
By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY
Published: September 1, 2012
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/02/us/politics/in-a-tactical-test-mitt-romney-stakes-hopes-on-ohio.html?pagewanted=all
Fresh off his nominating convention, Mitt Romney is cranking up a well-financed
AND
for him also because “he’s of God, too. I’m Christian.”

Obama winning because of Independents
Huey Burns 6/27
Obama Leads Romney in Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania By Caitlin Huey-Burns - June 27, 2012 http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2012/06/27/obama_leads_romney_in_florida_ohio_pennsylvania_114627.html
The president assumes his widest lead of the three in Ohio, where he attracts
AND
have a favorable view of him while 46 percent hold a negative one.

Polls: Obama Still Leading Romney in Ohio
Aug 24, 2012
Jim Provance
http://www.hispanicbusiness.com/2012/8/24/polls_obama_still_leading_romney_in.htm

A pair of new polls released today both show Democratic President Obama leading Republican Mitt
AND
Tampa, is still more than two years from seeking re-election.


===2NC Independents Key=== 
Indepedents are key
A close uniqueness debate magnifies the importance of the link --- independent voters are swing close elections.
Kaufman 12
Stephen, 4/13, Who Are America’s Independent Voters? Why Are They Crucial?, International Information Program Digital, p. http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2012/04/201204133847.html#axzz1sqNkxizT)
The United States may have a political system dominated by two parties, Republican and
AND
, but frequently you cannot win an election without targeting some independent voters.”

Independent voters key – determines Ohio – economy key
Walsh 12
Kenneth, Chief White House Correspondent, US News and World Report, USNews.com, 5/30, lexis
3. Pivot to swing voters. Once he is formally nominated, Romney needs
AND
voters that President Obama has been a failure, especially on the economy.

Independent swing voters key in Ohio
Chicago Tribune 12
5/4, lexis
Facing the reality of running their candidate as a bruised incumbent in a politically divided
AND
the campaign must persuade skeptical independent voters to give the president another shot.

===2NC October Surprise=== 
Obama will strike Iran as October Surprise if he’s losing – their “No Strikes” ev doesn’t assume our link
Chemi Shalev is an Israeli journalist and political analyst. Chemi Shalev is a US foreign correspondent for Haaretz newspaper 12-27-2011 http://www.haaretz.com/blogs/west-of-eden/will-a-u-s-attack-on-iran-become-obama-s-october-surprise-1.403898
Will a U.S. attack on Iran become Obama’s ‘October Surprise’?
AND
about it, he would be forever revered as the ultimate Righteous Gentile.

Escalation
Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and terrorist attacks.
Russell -09 (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)
Iran’s response to what would initially start as a sustained stand-off bombardment (
AND
U.S. massive response – a potential “Armageddon” scenario.

Multiple factors cause regional escalation
Kahl, 12
COLIN H. KAHL is an Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. In 2009-11, he was U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East, Foreign Affairs, April)

SPILLOVER Keeping other states in the region out of the fight would also prove more
AND
, and Lesser Tunb, three disputed Gulf islands currently occupied by Iran.

=Spending= 
==Bond Market DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Bond market confidence is stable now, but another round of stimulus spending causes freak out and collapses the economy—err negative there’s an invisible threshold
Samuelson, ’11 [December 19, 2011, Robert Samuelson has a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and is currently a political analyst for the Washington Times, “The Eclipse of Keynesianism Proceeds”, http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/12/19/the_eclipse_of_keynesianism_proceeds_99429.html]
The eclipse of Keynesian economics proceeds. When Keynes wrote "The General Theory of
AND
risen to hazardous levels, undermining Keynesian economics as taught in standard texts.

The plan collapses the perception of fiscal discipline—transportation funding is a unique test for fiscal questions
Corker, ’12 [3/8/12, Bob Corker is a Senator from Tennessee, “Senate Must Face Fiscal Reality in Pending Highway Bill”, http://www.corker.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=News&ContentRecord_id=606a2acd-0ca7-408f-9694-f07ed8220576&ContentType_id=b94acc28-404a-4fc6-b143-a9e15bf92da4&Group_id=650e2033-9317-4405-a8df-47cdd1c9d515&MonthDisplay=3&YearDisplay=2012]
Now, the Senate is considering a two-year federal highway reauthorization bill,
AND
avoid what Erskine Bowles called “the most predictable economic crisis in history”?

Debt sell off collapses US economic leadership
Eichengreen, ’11 [6/9/11, Barry Eichengreen is the George C. Pardee and Helen N. Pardee Professor of Economics and Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Berkeley, “How to Kill a Dollar”, http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/how-to-kill-a-dollar]
If there is a threat to the dollar, it stems not from monetary policy
AND
on. Congress, indeed everyone in America, should take him seriously.

Nuclear war—specifically with China and Iraq stability
Mead 4-Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, “America's sticky power,” Foreign Policy, March 2004)

U.S. military force and cultural appeal have kept the United States at
AND
.S.-led global system appear desirable, inevitable, and permanent.

===2NC Uniqueness Wall=== 
Prefer our evidence—the measure with the strongest statistical correlation proves growth is sustainable
WSJ, ‘9/5 [9/5/12, Wall Street Journal, “Survey Says: Modest U.S. Growth (Maybe)”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443589304577633873381933542.html]
After all, a key component, the business activities index,
AND
any other component and even the composite figure.

Job growth is overwhelmingly positive in all sectors
Needham, ‘9/6 [09/06/12, Vicki Needham “Job growth picked up on all fronts in August”, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247881-job-growth-picked-up-on-all-fronts-in-august]
The private sector added 201,000 jobs in August and employers hired more people
AND
— those with up to 49 workers — added 99,000 jobs.

Service sector growth high now
Spicer, ‘9/6 [9/6/12, Jonathan Spicer, “Service sector growth rises in August: ISM” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/06/us-usa-economy-services-idUSBRE8850QW20120906
(Reuters) - The pace of growth in the massive services sector rose in
AND
adding that Thursday's combined economic data "bodes well for tomorrow's labor report."

Err negative—we are on the verge of a massive surge in consumer spending—best data proves
Reeves, ‘9/06 [9/06/12, Jeff Reeves, Editor of InvestorPlace.com, “Is Consumer Spending About to EXPLODE?” http://www.investorplace.com/2012/09/is-consumer-spending-about-to-explode/]
And it’s not just psychology — there’s data to back this up. Consumer sentiment
AND
forth in the coming months and years after a very frugal few years.

Housing market recovering now
Russolillo, ‘08/29 [08/29/12, Steven Russolillo, “The Housing Recovery Is Looking Better and Better”, http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2012/08/29/the-housing-recovery-is-looking-better-and-better/?KEYWORDS=recovery]
One of the biggest economic stories this summer has been the gradual improvement in the
AND
,” says Joe Naroff, president and chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors.

Current recovery pace is natural—their uniqueness and internal evidence mischaracterizes the nature of the recession
Gross, ‘9/4 [9/4/12, Daniel Gros is Director of the Brussels-based Center for European Policy Studies. He has worked for the International Monetary Fund, and served as an economic adviser to the European Commission, the European Parliament, and the French prime minister and finance minister. He is the editor of Economie Internationale and International Finance., “This Recovery is Different”, http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/this-recovery-is-different-by-daniel-gros]
Many policymakers and economists have observed that the recovery from the 2007-2008 financial
AND
might be abrupt. Why should we expect this time to be different?

===2NC Turns China Cooperation=== 
Turns US/China cooperation and war
Mead 9 (Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy – Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger”, The New Republic, 2-4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)
The greatest danger both to U.S.-China relations and to American power
AND
the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===2NC Turns Heg=== 
Deficit spending turns heg—Bond market freakout crowds out military spending and forces a retrenchment
Khalilzad, counselor at CSIS, 11 [2/8/11, Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]

The current recession is the result of a deep financial crisis, not a mere
AND
that would almost certainly compel a radical retrenchment of the United States internationally.

That outweighs—biggest internal link to leadership
McConell, ’09 [7/23/09, Mitch McConnell is a Senate Republican Leader, “Growing Federal Debt Threatens U.S. Security”]
"Earlier this year I came to the Senate floor and outlined a number of
AND
communication, the security of our allies, or even our own independence

==Private Crowd Out DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
TURN—Deficit spending can’t create growth—every mechanism of financing uses resources that would already be used
Riedl, ’10 [8/31/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, The Fatal Flaw of Keynesian Stimulus,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/08/The-Fatal-Flaw-of-Keynesian-Stimulus]

But there is one problem with the government stimulus theory: No one asks where
AND
wealth out of thin air. No wonder the unemployment rate remains high.

Two impacts—
First—Productivity—government spending decreases it which is the only way to create growth
Riedl, ’10 [1/09/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]

Government spending can affect long-term economic growth, both up and down.
AND
contribute to higher interest rates while dropping even more debt on future generations.

Second—Negative Multiplier—deadweight losses means spending creates a negative multiplier which outweighs
De Rugy and Debnam, ’10 [July 2010, Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Jakina Debnam is a research analyst at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, “Does Government Spending stimulate economies?” http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/MOP77_SBI_Spending%20Multiplier_web%20(2).pdf]
Barro and Redlick’s research estimates that the multiplier for changes in defense spending that people
AND
in government purchases, offsetting the initial effect of the government spending. 15

===2NC Overview=== 

And, private investment is just as stimulating as government spending
Riedl, ’10 [1/09/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]

Second, investment is "spending" every bit as much as is consumption. Keynesian fiscal stimulus advocates want money spent on consumption, not saved. They evaluate past stimulus programs by whether people who got stimulus money spent it on consumption goods rather than save it. But the economy overall does not care if you buy a car, or if you lend money to a company that buys a forklift.[12]

===2NC AT Jobs Internal=== 

Independently, this means you default to our offense—job creation can’t be done by the government—the only way to stimulate the economy is to allow for productivity
Boaz, ’11 [6/27/11, David Boaz is the executive vice president of the Cato Institute, “Obama, Clinton, Keynes, and the Enduring Mysteries of Job Creation,” http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/obama-clinton-keynes-enduring-mysteries-job-creation]
Assuming this story is true, it seems to underline the absurdity of the whole
AND
slow employment growth is a result of ATMs and check-in kiosks.

===2NC Free Market Solves=== 
Free market productivity solves declines in consumption, but private sector crowd out decreases it—market forces are self correcting
Taylor and Vedder, ’10 [May/June 2010 Cato Policy Report, Jason E. Taylor is a professor of economics at Central Michigan University and Richard K. Vedder is a distinguished professor of economics at Ohio University and adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Stimulus by Spending Cuts: Lessons from 1946,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/policy_report/v32n3/cp32n3-1.html]
Household consumption, business investment, and net exports all boomed as government spending receded
AND
Bastiat's 1848 essay, "What Is Seen and What Is Not Seen."

===2NC Productivity DA=== 
Productivity O/W—growth comes from productivity and value, not consumption—the strength of an economy doesn’t come from people buying more products, but businesses producing the best products with the greatest value
Schramm, ’12 [5/23/12, Carl J. Schramm is recognized internationally as a leading authority on entrepreneurship, innovation and economic growth. Currently he is university professor at Syracuse University., “The False Promise of Deficit Spending”, http://www.fourpercentgrowth.org/2012/05/the-false-promise-of-deficit-spending/]
And, herein, is a cautionary tale for the U.S. to
AND
does not spell personal disaster because the entrepreneur can find a new job.

===2NC Business Confidence DA=== 
The link turns the case—deficit spending sends the perception of future taxation which causes business to decrease hiring
Schizer, ’11 [10/17/11, David M. Schizer, Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia Law School, Fiscal Policy in an Era of Austerity,” Working Paper No. 408, The Center for Law and Economic Studies Columbia University School of Law, http://ssrn.com/abstract=1948692]
Even if we solve this problem by ensuring that stimulus funds are used only for
AND
it is unlikely to serve as a magic bullet for reviving our economy.



===2NC AT Economy Low=== 
Growth high now—housing sector, energy production, banking, industrial base, and deficit reduction compromises that are coming by the end of the year—history proves
Altman, former US deputy Treasury secretary, ‘9/3 [9/3/12, Roger Altman is founder and chairman of Evercore Partners and a former US deputy Treasury secretary, “The US economy may surprise us all”, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/f7ec3e66-f5ac-11e1-bf76-00144feabdc0.html#axzz25j9wVhop]
But when they do, it is possible that the US economy will surprise on
AND
reduction programme that would boost confidence, the stock market and private investment.

Prefer our evidence—the measure with the strongest statistical correlation proves growth is sustainable
WSJ, ‘9/5 [9/5/12, Wall Street Journal, “Survey Says: Modest U.S. Growth (Maybe)”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443589304577633873381933542.html]
After all, a key component, the business activities index, came in sharply higher at 57.2, versus 51.7. Even if it retreats somewhat, a reading safely above 50 in that index should be reassuring. Economists say it is more correlated with economic growth than any other component and even the composite figure.

==Stimulus Fails== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Empirics disprove your stimulus arguments
Davies et al, ’12 [April 2012, Mercatus Center at George Mason University, Antony Davies is an associate professor of economics at Duquesne University, Bruce Yandle is a distinguished adjunct professor of economics at George Mason, Derek Thieme is a Mercatus Center MA Fellow, and Robert Sarvis is a MA Fellow, Working Paper, No. 12-12, “THE U.S. EXPERIENCE WITH FISCAL STIMULUS: A Historical and Statistical Analysis of U.S. Fiscal Stimulus Activity, 1953- 2011,” http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/US-Experience-Fiscal-Stimulus.pdf
A counterargument is that what really matters is the relationship between stimulus spending and economic
AND
spending continues to increase and pressures the economy to move beyond full employment.

Infrastructure investment isn’t stimulating—poorly targeted, doesn’t address
De Rugy, ’11 [10/16/11, Veronique de Rugy, Senior Research Fellow, Presente to the Joint Economic Committee, Hearing on the Impact of Infrastructure on the Manufacturing Sector, “Federal Infrastructure Spending: Neither A Good Stimulus Nor A Good Investment”]
Infrastructure spending is not targeted Second, the only thing harder than getting the money
AND
to poaching decline to fill the vacant positions—leaving unemployment essentially unchanged.

===2NC Empirics=== 
Err negative—leaky bucket costs are hidden so they get ignored
Taylor and Vedder, ’10 [May/June 2010 Cato Policy Report, Jason E. Taylor is a professor of economics at Central Michigan University and Richard K. Vedder is a distinguished professor of economics at Ohio University and adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Stimulus by Spending Cuts: Lessons from 1946,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/policy_report/v32n3/cp32n3-1.html]
The illusion that new employment results from the stimulus package is understandable because the jobs
AND
, absent the government spending, but never were — hence their invisibility.

a) Consensus—they don’t have it
De Rugy, ’11 [10/16/11, Veronique de Rugy, Senior Research Fellow, Presente to the Joint Economic Committee, Hearing on the Impact of Infrastructure on the Manufacturing Sector, “Federal Infrastructure Spending: Neither A Good Stimulus Nor A Good Investment”]
As it turns out, as appealing as the Keynesian story sounds, there is
AND
, “Economists have offered an embarrassingly wide range of estimated multipliers.”7

===2NC Not Keynesian=== 
Job poaching decreases growth and causes delays which means the aff isn’t stimulating
Jones and Rothschild, ’11 [September 2011, Mercatus Center at George Mason University, Garrett Jones and Daniel M. Rothschild, Working Paper, “No Such Thing As Shovel Ready: The Supply Side of the Recovery Act”, http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/No_such_thing_as_shovel_ready_WP1118.pdf]
But even in this success, there are problems for the Keynesian free-lunch
AND
-round effects of stimulus might raise the ―jobs created‖ figure.

Only a risk of the DA—stimulus spending doesn’t go to idle firms
Jones and Rothschild, ’11 [September 2011, Mercatus Center at George Mason University, Garrett Jones and Daniel M. Rothschild, Working Paper, “No Such Thing As Shovel Ready: The Supply Side of the Recovery Act”, http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/No_such_thing_as_shovel_ready_WP1118.pdf]
Six of the organizations we interviewed, primarily engineering firms, said that there was
AND
smoothed out their workload, turning down other work to take ARRA projects.

=Other= 
==Buy America DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Federal law requires compliance with Buy American provisions, but the states are exempt.
Roth, 11 [[[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/authors/?id=15040|Diana Furchtgott-Roth]], contributing editor of RealClearMarkets, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, and a columnist for the Examiner, 5/26/11, “Let's Leave Our Roads to the States”, [[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html)/EM|http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html]//EM]]
Another witness, Gabriel Roth, disagreed with Mr. Rendell about the need for
AND
to spend money on mass transit, even where there are few users.

Buy America provisions will spark protectionist retaliation—turns the economy
Faiola, 9 [Anthony Faiola, Washington Post Staff Writer,1/29/9, “'Buy American' Rider Sparks Trade Debate”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/28/AR2009012804002_2.html]//EM
Proponents of expanding the "Buy American" provisions enacted during the Great Depression,
AND
from taking such measures, countries from France to Indonesia have done so.


Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction
Panzner 8 – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase [Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138]
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

==Clean Tech DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Cleantech leadership is high now, but not inevitable
Elkington ’12 [9/26/12, John Elkington. “US elections: ignoring climate agenda is a mistake,” Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/sustainable-business/sustainability-with-john-elkington/us-elections-presidential-campaign-climate-agenda?newsfeed=true]
Whoever the next president may be, America will be haunted by deteriorating competitiveness,
AND
potential to create more than one million new jobs in America by 2030.

Adaptation strategies displaces clean tech investments
Bahn ’11 [6/11, Olivier Bahn GERAD and MQG, HEC Montreal, Montreal, Canada and Marc Chesney Institute of Banking and Finance and Swiss Finance Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland and
Jonathan Gheyssens Institute of Banking and Finance, University of Zurich and NADEL, ETH Zurich, Switzerland, “The Effect of Proactive Adaptation on Green Investment,” National Centre of Competence in Research Financial Valuation and Risk Management Working Paper No. 708,
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1462901111001705]
Contrary to mitigation options, adaptation measures do not reduce emission levels but reduce their
AND
have immediate and important consequences on the sequence of mitigation and adaptation strategies.

Clean tech leadership averts global war – independently turns warming and economy
Klarevas ‘9 [Louis Klarevas is a Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html]
By not addressing climate change more aggressively and creatively, the United States is squandering
AND
with means of leverage that can be employed to keep potential foes in check
==Debris DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Debris from satellite launches creates the cascade effect – destroys space objects and turns the case
Taylor, 7 – Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command; B.A, Berry College; J.D. University of Georgia; LL.M. (Air and Space Law), McGill University (Michael W. “Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth’s Orbital Debris Problem,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 2007, Gale)
<Estimates of the future levels of risk are even more speculative than estimates of
AND
increase the costs by requiring more mitigation measures or through increased insurance premiums.

Also causes US Russia accidental war
Lewis 4 (Jeffrey, fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM). Graduaged magma cum laude from Augustana College with degrees in Philosophy and Political Science “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios” Center for Defense Information. July, 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)
This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space
AND
is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.
==Food Prices DA== 
===1NC Brazil Shell=== 
a) high food prices key to the Brazilian economy
BBC 12 (March, “Brazil 'overtakes UK's economy',” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-17272716//MGD)//
//Brazil has become the sixth-biggest economy in the world, the country's finance//
//AND//
//of high food and oil prices, which has led to rapid growth.//

//b brazilian economic growth key to worldwide democratic model//
//Bloomberg 11 (March, “Obama Says Brazil a Model for Democracy While Juggling Libya Crisis in Rio,” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/obama-calls-brazil-model-for-north-african-democratic-movements.html//MGD)
President Barack Obama, declaring his support for Brazil’s rising global economic clout, said
AND
to the wave of democratic uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa.

c impact is war and extinction
Diamond 95- senior fellow at the Hoover institution, prof of political science at Stanford (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s,” http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm//MGD)
OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-
AND
which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.

===1NC Biotech Shell=== 
a) high food prices spur biotech development
CBS Money Watch 11 (March, “Why Rising Food Prices Mean Good Times for Monsanto and Its Biotech Seeds,” http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-44042691/why-rising-food-prices-mean-good-times-for-monsanto-and-its-biotech-seeds///MGD)//
//Global food prices set an all-time record last month and, while this//
//AND//
//should be used to meet these needs -- that's still an open question.//

//b) advancing biotech industry solves bioterrorism//
//Smith et al 03 – *fellow at the Center for Biosecurity of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, **Director of the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC, Chair of the Board of Scientific Counselors, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response at the CDC,** * Under Secretary of the Science and Technology Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security (BRADLEY T. SMITH, THOMAS V. INGLESBY, and TARA O’TOOLE “Biodefense R&D: Anticipating Future Threats, Establishing a Strategic Environment,” Biosecurity and Bioterrorism. Volume 1, Number 3, 2003 http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2003/2003-09-15-biodefenserandd.html//MGD)
THE ULTIMATE OBJECTIVE OF THE U.S. CIVILIAN BIODEFENSE STRATEGY should be to
AND
systems, could conceivably render biological weapons ineffective as agents of mass lethality.

c) extinction
Matheny 7- research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, PhD in economics from Hopkins (Jason, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007 www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf//MGD)
Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed
AND
systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006
===1NC North Korea Shell=== 
a) high food prices force North Korea to seek food aid
Chanlett-Avery 11- specialist in Asian affairs for the Congressional Research Service, MA from the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia (Emma “North Korea: U.S. Relations, Nuclear Diplomacy, and Internal Situation,” fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/167870.pdf//MGD)//
//Beginning in early 2011, North Korea issued an appeal for international food aid.//
//AND//
//provision of any assistance to Pyongyang because of concerns about supporting the regime.//

//b) That gives the US a bargaining chip over North Korea’s nuclear program//
//CNN 12 (March, “Analysis: North Korea deal promising, but questions persist,” http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/01/u-s-cautiously-optimistic-after-food-aid-deal-with-north-korea///MGD)
Never a regime to do something for nothing, North Korea took what Secretary of
AND
inspectors into nuclear sites that have gone unexamined for close to five years.

c) North Korean prolif leads to war extinction
Hayes and Hamel-Green 09 (Peter and Michael, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]]</span>//MGD)
The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments
AND
authors has characterized elsewhere as “the end of American nuclear hegemony.”8
==Great Lakes DeDev DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Great lakes shipping collapses the Great Lakes ecosystem—collapse now is key
Nalbone, ’09 [June 2009, Jennifer Nalbone, Campaign Director, Navigation and Invasive Species Great Lakes United, “A Better Seaway”, http://www.abetterseaway.com/sites/default/files/abetterseaway_final.pdf]
2009 marks 50 years since the opening of the St. Lawrence Seaway. This
AND
and work alongside those trying to restore the lakes and revitalize the economy.

All your impact defense doesn’t assume the great lakes—it’s a critical ecosystem
Greenwood, No Date [Rich Greenwood, Scientist and leader of the Great Lakes Basin Ecosystem Team, “Why is the Great Lakes Ecosystem important?”, http://www.fws.gov/midwest/Fisheries/Library/fact-ecoteam.pdf]
The Great Lakes Basin Ecosystem is the largest body of freshwater in the world.
AND
S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) occur in this ecosystem.

Biodiversity loss extirpates ecosystems --- causes extinction
Young, PhD coastal marine ecology, 10 [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]]
Different species within ecosystems fill particular roles, they all have a function, they
AND
on this planet possible and that our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.

Turns the economy—accounts for 27% of GDP and is comparatively more important than industry
Vaccaro and Read, ’11 [2011, Lynn Vaccaro has a B.S. in Geology-Biology, M.S. in Natural Resources, M.A.T. Science Education, Cornell University, Coastal Research Specialist for Sea Grant Michigan and Jennifer Read is the Assistant Director and Research Coordinator for Sea Grant Michigan, executive director of Great Lakes Observing System, Fulbright Doctoral Fellow at the University of Michigan, Ph.D., “Vital to Our Nation’s Economy: GREAT LAKES JOBS,”, [[http://www.fws.gov/glri/documents/11-203-Great-Lakes-Jobs-report%5B1%5D.pdf]])
Water is huge draw for people — coastal trails, clean beaches and waterfront businesses
AND
engineering degrees, 9 providing the human capital needed for innovation and entrepreneurship.
==Ozone DA== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Ozone depletion is low now—the plan collapses the ozone layer
Ross et al 9—*Adjunct professor at Embry-Riddle University, PhD in planetary physics from UCLA, PhD from Harvard, Program Director for Baker Residential Academic Program at Colorado University at Boulder, *Project Engineer at The Aerospace Corporation, Center Faculty Chair at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, MA in aeronautical science [3/20, *Martin Ross Darin Toohey *Manfred Peinemann Patrick Ross, “Limits on the Space Launch Market Related to Stratospheric Ozone Depletion”, Astropolitics
7:1, http://atoc.colorado.edu/~whan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf]
Combustion emissions from rocket launches change the composition of the atmosphere. The changes
AND
such significant increase in demand for orbital launches on the global ozone layer.

Extinction
Smith and Daniel 99 (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306 )
The ozone layer is critical to life on Earth because it absorbs biologically damaging
AND
aquatic ecosystems also may occur (Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).

===2NC Overview=== 
Adopt the precautionary principal or we risk extinction
Mikhailov 4 (A.A. Mikhailov Yu.G. Shafer Institute of Cosmophysical Research and Aeronomy, 31 Lenin Ave., 677891 Yakutsk, Russia “Ozone Layer and the Formation of the Ozone Hole” http://arxiv.org/ftp/physics/papers/0401/0401135.pdf )
If we now take no precautions,
AND
of the ozone holes covered them”.

===2NC AT China=== 
China’s space program has barely any launches planned
Boozer 5/19 [Rick, MA and PhD candidate in astrophysics, “United States Will Beat China in Newest Space Race”, Yahoo News, http://news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110519/sc_ac/8496119_united_states_will_beat_china_in_newest_space_race]
America is laying the groundwork for its greatest space endeavor since sending astronauts to the
AND
study is probably just a knee-jerk response to the Senators' efforts.

===2NC AT Future Launches=== 
The ozone hole is closing now
Columbia Engineering 11
Columbia Engineering, 4-21-2011, “Study Links Ozone Hole to Broader Climate Change,” Columbia University School of Engineering and Applied Science, http://www.engineering.columbia.edu/study-links-ozone-hole-broader-climate-change
Located in the Earth's stratosphere, just above the troposphere (which begins on Earth's
AND
it to fully reverse, and the ozone hole to close by midcentury.

Future launches won’t critically affect the ozone layer
Ross et al 9—*Adjunct professor at Embry-Riddle University, PhD in planetary physics from UCLA, PhD from Harvard, Program Director for Baker Residential Academic Program at Colorado University at Boulder, *Project Engineer at The Aerospace Corporation, Center Faculty Chair at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, MA in aeronautical science (3/20, *Martin Ross Darin Toohey *Manfred Peinemann Patrick Ross, “Limits on the Space Launch Market Related to Stratospheric Ozone Depletion”, Astropolitics 7:1, http://atoc.colorado.edu/~whan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf)
Combustion emissions from rocket launches change the composition of the atmosphere. The changes
AND
such significant increase in demand for orbital launches on the global ozone layer.

===2NC AT No Effect=== 
Rockets kill ozone
Helen Caldicott, April 15, 2000, http://www.space4peace.org/articles/madness.htm
But in reality NASA is busily destroying the ozone layer. Because each space shuttle
AND
projects on the ozone depletion. That's called management control in PR language..

Small amounts of rocket exhaust can destroy lots of ozone
Ross 2000 (Martin N. Ross, Environmental Systems Directorate, leads research on the stratospheric impact of Air Force launch vehicles. Summer 2000 Crosslink, Rockets and the Ozone Layer
http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html)
Complicated chemical and physical processes, only partially understood by atmospheric scientists, affect both
AND
including rocket exhaust, might cause relatively large changes in the ozone layer.

Both solid and liquid rocket fuels deplete ozone
Ross 2000 (Martin N. Ross, Environmental Systems Directorate, leads research on the stratospheric impact of Air Force launch vehicles. Summer 2000 Crosslink, Rockets and the Ozone Layer
http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html)
Both solid and liquid rocket-propulsion systems emit a variety of gases and particles
AND
compounds when heterogeneous chemical reactions take place on the surface of these particles.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]