[[toc]]
=Ohio DA= 

**Obama winning Ohio – Ohio Key**
**Rutenberg / Zeleny 9/1**
By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY
Published: September 1, 2012 [...]
[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/02/us/politics/in-a-tactical-test-mitt-romney-stakes-hopes-on-ohio.html?pagewanted=all]]

Fresh off his nominating convention, Mitt Romney [...] for him also because “he’s of God, too. I’m Christian.”

**Ohio CRITICAL for national election of both candidates – highest percentage its tipping-point state**
**Silver 8/30** – NYT Political Blogger, Leading Polling Statistician
Nate, “Aug. 29: So Much Depends Upon Ohio”, August 30, 2012, 3:54 AM153 Comments [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/aug-29-so-much-depends-upon-ohio/]], Access 8/30/12

A one-point lead isn’t much, [...]to showcase himself has started.

**Romney will strike Iran**
[Mitt Romney has stated that he is willing to use military force to strike Iranian nuclear facilities]
**Pelley 8/24** [Scott Pelley is a reporter for the CBS evening news and interviewed Romney in this article; 8/24/12; [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18563_162-57500225/romney-nuclear-iran-unacceptable/]]; [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18563_162-57500225/romney-nuclear-iran-unacceptable/]];

Scott Pelley: Is it worth going to [...] that Obama was born in the United States.

**Iran strikes escalates to a nuclear world war.**
**Chossudovsky, 12/26/2011** (Michel, Preparing to attack Iran with Nuclear Weapons, Global Research, p. http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=28355)

An attack on Iran would have [...]holocaust over a large part of the Middle East.

=Spending DA= 

**The plan collapses the perception of fiscal discipline—transportation funding is a unique test for fiscal questions**
**Corker, ’12** [3/8/12, Bob Corker is a Senator from Tennessee, “Senate Must Face Fiscal Reality in Pending Highway Bill”, http://www.corker.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=News&ContentRecord_id=606a2acd-0ca7-408f-9694-f07ed8220576&ContentType_id=b94acc28-404a-4fc6-b143-a9e15bf92da4&Group_id=650e2033-9317-4405-a8df-47cdd1c9d515&MonthDisplay=3&YearDisplay=2012]

Over the past year, many Republicans and [...] “the most predictable economic crisis in history”?

**Another round of stimulus spending causes bond market freak out and collapses the economy—err negative there’s an invisible threshold**
**Samuelson, ’11** [December 19, 2011, Robert Samuelson has a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and is currently a political analyst for the Washington Times, “The Eclipse of Keynesianism Proceeds”, http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/12/19/the_eclipse_of_keynesianism_proceeds_99429.html]

The eclipse of Keynesian economics proceeds. [...] in the 1930s offers no panacea today.

**US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ‘8** [October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]

With the global financial system in serious trouble, [...]toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.

=Race DA= 

**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.**
**Brenman ‘7** [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]

Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States [...] , continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.

**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.**
**Memmi ’00** [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]

The struggle against racism will [...] it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

=Florida DA= 

**Obama winning key swing states—including Ohio and Florida**
**Silver, ‘9/27** [9/27/12, Nate Silver, “Sept. 26: Could 2012 Be Like 2008?”, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/27/sept-26-could-2012-be-like-2008/]

In 14 of the 50 states, the “now-cast [...]· Finally, two swing states: Florida and Ohio.

**Wasteful spending alienates voters in Ohio and Florida.**
**Jasinowski, 12**
(Jerry Jasinowski, an economist and author, served as President of the National Association of Manufacturers for 14 years and later The Manufacturing Institute, Political Machine, 6/8, lexis)

Second, the attempt to recall [...] This will spread to other states like Ohio and Florida.

**Florida key to the election**
**Thomas 7/18**(Ken, Associated Press, “Obama's aim in Florida? Keep pressure on Romney,” The Sacramento Bee, July 18, 2012, http://www.sacbee.com/2012/07/18/4639964/romney-pushes-attacks-against.html)

WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama [...]are jockeying for an advantage.

**Obama key to preventing a US or Israeli strike on Iran**
**Traub, 12** [January/February 2012, James Traub is a journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]]]

A Republican president would [...] grave price for a relatively modest gain.

**Extinction**
**Hirsch 5** - Professor @ UC San Diego (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)

The Bush administration has put [...]Earth's population many times over.

=Elections DA 1.0= 

**Obama will win now by a clear margin, but it could still swing—a consensus of the best election models prove**
**Klein, ‘9/17** [9/17/12, Ezra Klein, “The Romney campaign is in trouble”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/09/17/romney-is-behind-and-the-debates-arent-likely-to-save-him/]

On the presidential level, where everyone [...]comeback becomes that much less likely.

**Independents will backlash to new spending – swings the election**
Douglas **Schoen**, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-**2012**, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A

Neither party focuses on issues that [...]will almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.

**Obama key to preventing a US or Israeli strike on Iran**
**Traub, 12** [January/February 2012, James Traub is a journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]]]

A Republican president would [...] grave price for a relatively modest gain.

**Extinction**
**Hirsch 5** - Professor @ UC San Diego (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)

The Bush administration has put [...]Earth's population many times over.

=Elections DA 2.0= 

**Obama will win in key swing states, but it will be close**
**Blumenthal 10/25** [Mark Blumenthal; 10/25/2012; Presidential Polls Counter Romney Surge Myth; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/25/presidential-polls-romney-surge_n_2016066.html?utm_hp_ref=politics&utm_hp_ref=politics]]]

New polls released on Wednesday […]the Investor's Business Daily/TIPP poll.

**Spending on transportation infrastructure is unpopular with the public.**
Ken **Orski,** editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford, and JD @ Harvard Law, 2-5-**2012**, NewGeography, [[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]]

Finding the resources to keep transportation […] bridges, happily, are few and far between.

**Independents will backlash to new spending – swings the election**
Douglas **Schoen,** pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-**2012**, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A]]

Neither party focuses on issues that matter most to people: […]almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.

**Obama key to global climate deal**
**Geman, 1/5**/2012 (Ben, Report says global climate deal hinges on Obama reelection, The Hill, p. [[http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/202539-report-global-climate-deal-hinges-on-obama-reelection-]])

Prospects for striking a binding global climate deal […]agreement by 2015 almost impossible.

**Warming is the only existential risk**
**Deibel ’07**—Prof IR @ National War College (Terry, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat to […] but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet

=State Good DA= 

**Blacks were not supposed to discuss issues of the day and were limited to racial discussions for the support or CRITICISM of politicians seeking office**
**Woodson** founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History **1933**
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.92

In the North the Negroes [...]favorable party was doing so much for the race.

**Limiting the discussion to matters of SPECIAL concern to Black people from personal experience indicates a STEP BACKWARDS.**
**WOODSON** founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History **1933**
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.94-95

Even the few Negroes who [...] the tariff, and the merchant marine.

**THE ROLE OF THE GOVERNMENT IS INEVITABLY IMPORTANT – It is the only avenue in which we can break down the institutional effects of racism**
**FRANKLIN**James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University **1993**
John Hope-1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 73-74

We now live in an age when [...] dreamed but never realized.

=Ableism DA= 

**The affirmative’s use of “" represents ableist language – vote negative to fulfill your obligation an educator and reject it**
**Ben-Moshe, ’06** [Liat Ben-Moshe, Spring 2006, Volume 26, No. 2, Disability Studies Quarterly, “Infusing Disability in the Curriculum: The Case of Saramago's Blindness”, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/688/865]]]

Using blindness as metaphor [...]when we use disability merely as a rhetorical tool?

**The impact comes first – ableist language promotes a model of exclusion that is detrimental to our community**
**Wheelchair Dancer, 4/28/8** (“On Making Argument: Disability and Language”, http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 4/8/12)

If you are feeling a little bit of resistance, [...] us to speak out in the first place.

=Racial Pragmatism DA= 

**Their discourse as White supremacy being incapable of change mirrors actions taken by White Supremacy**
**WOODSON** founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 19**33**
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.83-84

Not long ago a measure was introduced […]to the policy of “keeping the Negro in his place.”

**And, they limit the discussion of minorities over White Supremacy to focus solely on special issues of segregation and not the ways in which racism manifests in other issues**
**WOODSON** founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 19**33**
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.94-95

Even the few Negroes who are […] labor arbitration, the tariff, and the merchant marine.

**Racial Pragmatism—The state is the only thing that can effectively solve racism**
**Franklin 1993**
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 45

Neither the courts nor the […] if we even approached it.

**And, the aim of liberation should focus on the state**
**Franklin 1993**
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p.73-74

We now live in an age when […] have dreamed but never realized.

**Yes, the nation-state is not perfect, but refusal to reform ignores our best tools for resistance – abandonment of the state is naïve and dangerous.**
**Dussel, ‘11** [2011, Enrique Dussel, Professor of Philosophy at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, “From Critical Theory to the Philosophy of Liberation: Some Themes for Dialogue”, Transmodernity: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production, [[http://escholarship.org/uc/item/59m869d2]]]

We should proceed in politics in the […]is a strategic orienting principle that functions as a regulative horizon.

**All their reasons the state is bad are a reason to vote affirmative—engaging means we know the tactics of the oppressor**
**Williams, ’70** [1970, Robert F. Williams, interviewed by The Black Scholar, “Interviews,”, Vol. 1, No. 7, BLACK REVOLUTION (May 1970), pp. 2-14, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/41163455]]]

Williams: It is erroneous to think […]Infiltrate the man's institutions.

**Specifically – anything other than pragmatic engagement fails**
**Grossberg, 92** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389)

The demand for moral and ideological […]institutionalization, even if they are impure and compromised.

**Pragmatism key to make environmental justice movements effective**
**Fan,** professor of Public Administration and Institute of Public Policy – Tamkang University, **‘6**
(Mei-Fang, “Environmental Justice and Nuclear Waste Conflicts in Taiwan,” Environmental Politics, Vol. 15, No. 3, p. 417 – 434, June)

It is necessary to rethink the […]is relevant to the multiple understandings of environmental justice.

=Fiscal Cliff DA= 

**Fiscal cliff compromise now—Obama’s political capital is key**
**Goldfarb and Nakamura, ‘11/30** [11/30/12, Zachary Goldfarb and David Nakamura, Washington Post Writers, In Pa., Obama pushes for his debt-reduction approach, The Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/in-pa-obama-pushes-for-his-debt-reduction-approach/2012/11/30/66bfadde-3b0b-11e2-8a97-363b0f9a0ab3_print.html]]]

HATFIELD, Pa. — President Obama traveled to […] doing again because that’s how it should be.”

**But, that’s contingent on Obama’s political capital—only way to maintain that compromise**
**Kalb 11/8** [Marvin, George Wash. Univ. James Clark Welling Fellow / Fox News Analyst, focuses on the impact of media on public policy and politics. He is also an expert in national security, with a focus on U.S. relations with Russia, Europe and the Middle East. His most recent book is Haunting Legacy: Vietnam and the American Presidency from Ford to Obama (Brookings Institution Press, 2011), 2:30pm, “An Overture to Romney”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/11/08-romney-kalb]], Accessed 11/8/12]

Conservative critics, gloomy after their […] Tim Geithner as Secretary of the Treasury?

**Transportation policies destroy his political capital**
**Freemark, ’12** [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]]]

President Obama barely mentions the need for […]the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**Delayed or failed fiscal cliff collapses the global economy**
**Zakaria, ’12** [10/12/12, Fareed Zakaria, “Breaking the Deadlock,” [[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2128309,00.html?xid=rss-mostpopular]]]

Whether Barack Obama or Mitt […]unhappy with the outcome.

**Presidential leadership is key to compromise – failure collapses heg and wrecks the economy**
**Hutchison, 9/21** --- Senator from Texas (Kay Bailey, 9/21/2012, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” [[http://hutchison.senate.gov/?p=weekly_column&id=1230]])

Despite warnings of the dire […]stall economic growth and punish working families.

**Extinction**
**Harris and Burrows, ‘09** [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]

Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more […] between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. 

=Buy America DA= 

**Federal law requires compliance with Buy American provisions, but the states are exempt.**
**Roth, 11** [[[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/authors/?id=15040|Diana Furchtgott-Roth]], contributing editor of RealClearMarkets, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, and a columnist for the Examiner, 5/26/11, “Let's Leave Our Roads to the States”, [[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html)/EM|http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html]//EM]]

Another witness, Gabriel Roth[…]mass transit, even where there are few users.

**Buy America provisions will spark protectionist retaliation—turns the economy**
**Faiola, 9** [Anthony Faiola, Washington Post Staff Writer,1/29/9, “'Buy American' Rider Sparks Trade Debate”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/28/AR2009012804002_2.html%5d/EM|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/28/AR2009012804002_2.html]//EM]]

Proponents of expanding the "Buy American" […], countries from France to Indonesia have done so.

**Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction**
**Panzner 8** – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase [Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138]

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of […]and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

**Buy America provisions are racist and creates internal “us” vs. “them” mindsets in American culture**
**Lin, 9** [Lynda Lin, Assistant Editor of the Pacific Citizen an award-winning newspaper for the Asian American Pacific community, 3/6/9, “With 'Buy American' Back, is Anti-Asian Sentiment Around the Corner?”, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:iyzuztD4rEUJ:www.pacificcitizen.org/node/213%3Fpage%3Dshow+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a%5d//EM|http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:iyzuztD4rEUJ:www.pacificcitizen.org/node/213%3Fpage%3Dshow+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a]//EM]]

Berns, 60, hopes a renewed commitment to buy American-made[…]immigrants were perceived to "sneak" things in.

=Private Sector DA= 

**TURN—Deficit spending can’t create growth—every mechanism of financing uses resources that would already be used**
**Riedl, ’10** [8/31/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, The Fatal Flaw of Keynesian Stimulus,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/08/The-Fatal-Flaw-of-Keynesian-Stimulus]]]

But there is one problem with the government […]air. No wonder the unemployment rate remains high.

**Two impacts—**
**First—Productivity—government spending decreases it which is the only way to create growth**
**Riedl, ’10** [1/09/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]]]

Government spending can affect long-term economic […]dropping even more debt on future generations.

**Second—Negative Multiplier—deadweight losses means spending creates a negative multiplier which outweighs**
**De Rugy and Debnam, ’10** [July 2010, Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Jakina Debnam is a research analyst at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, “Does Government Spending stimulate economies?” [[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/MOP77_SBI_Spending%20Multiplier_web%20(2).pdf]]]

Barro and Redlick’s research estimates […] effect of the government spending. 15 

=Inflation DA= 

**Stimulus leads to inflation – results in stagflation**
**Melloan, 9** – economist and financial writer, Gerald Loeb award for distinguished business and financial analysis (George, “Why 'Stimulus' Will Mean Inflation” Feb. 6, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123388703203755361.html#printMode)//AH|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123388703203755361.html#printMode)//AH]]

So what is the outlook? The stimulus package is […]potential consequence of their stimulus package.