[[toc]]
=Framework= 

**The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters**
**Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing – 2000** [[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]

Use of a colon before a list [...] begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

**“Resolved” expresses intent to implement the plan**
**American Heritage Dictionary ‘00**
[[http://www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved|www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved]]

To find a solution to; [...]successful conclusion

**The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the United States federal government is the agent of the resolution, not the person resolved**
**Webster’s‘00**[2000, Guide to Grammar and Writing, [[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]]

Use of a colon before a list [...] after the colon with a capital letter.

**“Should” denotes an expectation of enacting a plan**
**American Heritage Dictionary ‘00** [2000, www.dictionary.com]

3 Used to express probability or expectation

“**The United States federal government” is the central government in D.C**
**WEBSTER'S ’76**[1976, NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY UNABRIDGED, p. 833]

Federal government. Of or [...] governments of the constituent unites [as states or provinces].

**Approaches to Challenge White Supremacy Require A Specific Policy Strategy – Prerequisite to effective social struggles**
**Cook ’90** [March, 1990, Anthony E. Cook, Associate Professor of Law, University of Florida, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 985]

I. Pragmatic Rights and Revolutionary Duty. -- Many of the communal [...] to urge them along.

**The affirmative Fails to Present a Policy Strategy for Legally Confronting White Supremacy**
**Lobel ‘6** [October 2006 ,OrlyLobel, Assistant Professor of Law, University of San Diego, “The Paradox of Extra-Legal Activism: Critical Legal Consciousness and Transformative Politics” Legal Studies Research Paper No. 07-75]

Reflecting the aspiration to avoid [...]commitments of the state in an era of globalization.

**Ground –**
**Ignatieff ‘4** [2004, Michael Ignatieff, Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, Lesser Evils p. 20-1]

As for moral perfectionism, this would [...]thus respect for one right might lead us to betray another.

**Topical Education**
**Lewis ’92** [1992, Martin Lewis, Assistant Professor at George Washington, Green Delusions p. 258]

A majority of those born between 1960 and 1980 [...]and constitutional refinements become inconvenient niceties.

**Limits**
**Lutz ’00** [2000, Donald S. Lutz, Professor of Polisci at Houston, Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 39-40]

Aristotle notes in the Politics that political [...]well lie in the theory, not in the moral vision of the non-theorist.

**Framework is a reason to vote negative –**
**You must use your ballot to ratify constraints on discourse to preserve fairness**
**Shively ’00** [2000, Ruth Lessl Shively, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 179]

To put this point another way, it turns out that to be open [...] unflag­ging and firm support that we can give them

**And, only specifically supported proposals will be able to overcome bureaucratic resistance**
**Nolan and Holmes ‘8** [March/April 2008,Janne E Nolan, prof. of int’l affairs @ Pittsburgh, James R Holmes, assc. Prof. of strategy @ US Naval War College, “The Bureaucracy of Nuclear Deterrence,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 64:1, p. 40-3; 55-8]

Another piece of advice: Seasoned [...]—but that’s what Americans elect presidents to do.

=T - Investment= 

**Infrastructure investment is capital spending.**
**Jimenez ’95** [1995, Immanuel, Appointed Director of Public Sector Evaluations – Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group, “Human and Physical Infrastructure: Public Investment and Pricing Policies in Developing Countries”, Handbook of Development Economics, Vol. III, Ed. Behrman and Srinivasan, p. 2774]

1. Introduction and overview Almost by definition, infrastructure [...] basic theoretical concepts underlying them.

**A loan guarantee is only conditionally spending money**
**Muro and Rothwell ’11** [September 28th, 2011, Mark Muro, senior fellow and director of policy for the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings, Jonathan Rothwell a Senior Research Analyst and Associate Fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program Brookings: “DOE’s Loan Guarantee Program Will Likely Result in Minimal Costs and Large Gains for Taxpayers” By Climate Guest Blogger on Sep 28, 2011 at 8:25 am by Mark Muro and Jonathan Rothwell, in a Brookings repost]

A loan guarantee is distinct from free [...]seizing the borrower’s assets.

=T - Military= 

**Transportation infrastructure excludes spending on the military and law enforcement**
**Musick ‘10** [2010, Nathan, CBO’s Microeconomic Studies Division, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”
http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]

Although different definitions of “infrastructure” [...]Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005].

=T - Throughout= 

**In means throughout**
**Words and Phrases ‘8** [March 2008, Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “In,” Volume 20A, p. 205-215, Thomson West]

Colo. 1887. In the act of 1861 providing [...] mean throughout such counties

=T - Substantial= 

**A substantial investment is over 20%**
**Traficant et. al ‘89** [May 24th, 1989, James is a former member of US House of Representatives, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress [1989 - 1990] H.R.2489, [[http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489]]: ]

[C] SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial [...] [B][ii]] on the first day of such period.

**Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion**
**GAO ‘11** [June 29th, Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600]

This report responds to two [...] DOT, state, and local officials.

=T - Satellites= 

**Satellites are communication infrastructure, not transportation infrastructure**
**IEDC 12** (International Economic Development Council, “Economic Development Reference Guide”,[[@http://www.iedconline.org/?p=Guide_Infrastructure]])

Infrastructure¶ Infrastructure encompasses existing [...] Mobile phone networks¶ Local area networks (LAN)

**B. Violation – NextGen is satellites**
**FAA 07**, 2-14-2007, Federal Aviation Administration, “Fact Sheet NextGen,” [[@http://www.faa.gov/news/fact_sheets/news_story.cfm?newsid=8145]] (ED)

ADS-B Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B) is, [...] Demonstrations and Infrastructure Development.

=T - Vehicles= 

**Vehicles are part of our transportation system, not our transportation infrastructure**
**Amosweb ‘12** [2012, “Taking A Ride On TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE” A pedestrian’s guide to the economy, [[http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=pdg&c=dsp&k=47]]]

We usually think about transportation in terms […], and boats need docks and ports.

=T - Telecommunications= 

**Transportation infrastructure includes roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail**
**Chapman ’11** [September 29th, 2011, Chapman and Cutler LLP, Attorneys at Law within Finance“The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf]]]

Eligibility for financial assistance must be […]for public and commercial buildings

**Telecommunications are distinct from transportation infrastructure**
**Peters ’7** [October 25th, 2007, Mary, Secretary of Transportation Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 [[http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm]]]

Because transportation system users do […]telecommunications, electricity, pipelines, and railroads.

=T - Maintenance= 

**Maintenance is not investment**
**Kalyvitis and Vella ‘11** [2011, Sarantis and Eugenia, professor in the Department of International and European Economic Studies at Athens University of Economics and Business, PhD candidate in the Department of International and European Economic Studies at Athens University of Economics and BusinesPublic Capital Maintenance, Decentralization, and US Productivity Growth, Public Finance Review 39(6) p. 788 Sage]
NOTE: O&M=OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE

Expenditures ‘‘for the purchase, […] O&M outlays cover current operations.5

**A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])

What has been neglected in all […]budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.

=T - Sensors= 

**Transportation infrastructure must physically move people and goods**
**Keever and Orr ‘8** [2008, Gregory Keever is a California admitted attorney in private practice. He has experience in private revenue bonds, foreign infrastructure planning with governmental participation in managed economies, and extensive corporate and joint venture experience, including joint ventures between foreign governmental agencies and private firms. Ryan J. Orr is executive director at the Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects and teaches Global Project Finance to engineering, law school and MBA students. “Enabling User-Fee Backed Transportation Finance in California” Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects, [[http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers%20/Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf|http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers /Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf]]]

In arriving at these conclusions, this paper […]taxpayers and users.

**Violation is that sensors are not transportation infrastrucure**
**USDOT RITA, ‘12** (US Department of Transportation Research and Innovative Technology Administration, March 28 EM05-Transportation Infrastructure Protection [[http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/mp/mpem05.htm]])

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This service package includes the monitoring of transportation […] that mitigate impact of an incident</span>