[[toc]]

=Climate Aff= 
==Case== 
===2AC Warming Real=== 
Global warming is real – our evidence is REVERSE BIASED and solves all data discrepencies in previous studies
Muller 7-28-12 [Richard A. Muller, a professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former MacArthur Foundation fellow, is the author, most recently, of “Energy for Future Presidents: The Science Behind the Headlines.” “The Conv
ersion of a Climate-Change Skeptic,” New York Times, 7/28/12 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/30/opinion/the-conversion-of-a-climate-change-skeptic.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all]
CALL me a converted skeptic. Three years ago I identified problems in previous climate
AND
satellite measurements that solar activity changes the brightness of the sun very little.


===2AC Warming Inevitable=== 
All feedback loops are positive – we are headed towards rapid warming – skeptics miss crucial data
Garrett ’12 [2/22/12, John Garrett is a technical illustrator in the USA. He volunteers for skeptical science, the Santa Rosa Plauteau Ecological Resrve, and the Temecular Valley Astronomers. “Uncertainty is not the Basis for Investment,” http://www.skepticalscience.com/print.php?n=1282]
Warren Meyers, writing in Forbes magazine (Forbes 2/9/12),
AND
you invest in this planet without a better understanding of what is happening?

Can’t solve – CO2 stays in the atmosphere for hundreds of years
Mayer Hillman, Senior Fellow at the Policy Studies Institute, 2007
The Suicidal Planet: How To Prevent Global Climate Catastrophe, p. 25-6
The effects of climate change cannot quickly be reversed by reducing or even eliminating future
AND
levels of greenhouse gases remain in the atmosphere, additional warming will occur.

Past emissions keep warming inevitable
Adve 8 [One World South Asia News, 2008 [Nagraj Adve, April 23 2008, One World South Asia, “Can we avoid ‘dangerous’ global warming?”, < http://southasia.oneworld.net/Article/can-we-avoid-2018dangerous2019-global-warming/>]
As a consequence, the Earth’s average temperature has risen about 0.8 degrees
AND
to reflect heat, warming further, melting more, and so on.

===2AC Hurricanes=== 
Warming leads to deadlier scenarios for hurricanes.
Romm ‘9 [Joe Romm is editor of ‘Climate Progress’ and Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, he has a PhD in Physics, thesis on physical oceanography researched at the scripps institute, former assistant secretary of energy, author of five books on climate, “An introduction to global warming impacts: Hell and High Water,” 3/22/09 http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2009/03/22/203850/an-introduction-to-global-warming-impacts-hell-and-high-water/]
Even if we don’t see an increase in the worst hurricanes hurricanes, the rising
AND
, actually, those are the old computer models running old scenarios of emission
ns without much consideration of amplifying carbon cycle feedbacks. On our current emissions path, key parts of the tropical oceans are likely to warm considerably more than 2°C by century’s end. For a longer discussion of why future hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico are likely to become far more dangerous in the future, see (Why global warming means killer storms worse than Katrina and Gustav, Part 1 and Part 2).

===2AC Sea Level Rise=== 
Sea level rise is fast – models were underestimated
Hiskes ‘9 [11/24/09, Jonathan Hiskes writes about clean tech, green innovation, and the built environment as the Pacific Northwest correspondent for Sustainable Industries. He was formerly a Grist staff writer. “Copenhagen Diagnosis’ offers a grim update to the IPCC’s climate science,” [[http://grist.org/climate-energy/2009-11-24-copenhagen-diagnosis-offers-a-grim-update-to-the-ipccs-climate-s/|__http://grist.org/climate-energy/2009-11-24-copenhagen-diagnosis-offers-a-grim-update-to-the-ipccs-climate-s/__]]]
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change — the world’s foremost body for weighing and assessing
AND
meters of sea level rise must be expected over the next few centuries

Warming causes sea level rise that collapses biodiversity and kills billions
The Capital Times, 2008
(Anita Weier. UW scientist: Sea level changes a driving force in mass extinctions
http://www.madison.com/tct/news/292715)
Watch out for the oceans. That's the lesson of an extensive study by University
AND
many people live close to the sea. The toll will be large."

===2AC Natural Disasters=== 
Independent of climate change – Natural Disasters make the destruction of our infrastructure inevitable
Uddin ’12 [7/1/12, Dr. Waheed Uddin is a PI for the Univeristy of Mississippi and a professor of civil engineering and director for the center for advanced infrastructure technology. Dr. Mustafa Altinakar is the director of the national center for computational hydroscience and engineering. “Disaster Protection of Transport Infrastructure and Mobility Using Flood Risk Modeling and Geospatial Visualization,” http://www.ncitec.msstate.edu/wp-content/uploads/DisasterProtection.pdf]
About 60% of all disasters costing one billion dollars or more in the U
AND
for transport infrastructure protection from extreme weather related natural disasters such as floods.

===2AC AT Glaciers=== 
Icebergs are melting- makes warming inevitable
Hiskes ‘9 [11/24/09, Jonathan Hiskes writes about clean tech, green innovation, and the built environment as the Pacific Northwest correspondent for Sustainable Industries. He was formerly a Grist staff writer. “Copenhagen Diagnosis’ offers a grim update to the IPCC’s climate science,” [[http://grist.org/climate-energy/2009-11-24-copenhagen-diagnosis-offers-a-grim-update-to-the-ipccs-climate-s/|__http://grist.org/climate-energy/2009-11-24-copenhagen-diagnosis-offers-a-grim-update-to-the-ipccs-climate-s/__]]]
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change — the world’s foremost body for weighing and assessing
AND
meters of sea level rise must be expected over the next few centuries.

Ice melting is a positive feedback – rate of melting outweighs
Suzuki ‘9-6 [9/6/12, David Suzuki has a Ph.D in zoology from the University of Chicago and was a professor of genetics at the University of British Columbia. He has honorary degrees from 26 universities, and wrote over 52 books about the environment and climate. “A worrisome wet wake-up call from the Arctic,” [[http://www.davidsuzuki.org/blogs/science-matters/2012/09/a-worrisome-wet-wake-up-call-from-the-arctic/|__http://www.davidsuzuki.org/blogs/science-matters/2012/09/a-worrisome-wet-wake-up-call-from-the-arctic/__]]]
Arctic sea ice has already melted to a record low this year, in thickness
AND
heat waves, and cold spells — especially in Europe and North America.

===2AC AT Taylor=== 
The article is biased and based on faulty scientific studies
Plait ’12 [7/29/12, Phil Plait is a writer for discover Magazine. “No, new data does not ‘blow a gaping hole in global warming alarmism,’” http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/badastronomy/2011/07/29/no-new-data-does-not-blow-a-gaping-hole-in-global-warming-alarmism/
I received a few emails, tweets, and comments on the blog yesterday asking
AND
you may be led down a road that leads well away from reality.

===2AC AT Clouds=== 
Warming dissipates low lying clouds – causes a positive feedback
Walsh ‘9 [7/24/09, Bryan Walsh is a writer for Time Magazine, Science and Space. “In a Warming World, Cloudy Days Are a Boon,” http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1912448,00.html]
But a new study published in the July 24 issue of Science is clearing the
AND
"If they disappear, you might see that positive-feedback cycle."

===2AC AT Aerosols=== 
So2 causes methane disruption – accelerates positive feedbacks
Ward ‘9 [2/8/09, Peter Ward, is a MA and PhD from Columbia University, he is the former chief in Branch of Seismology at USGS. “Sulfur Dioxide Initiates Global Climate Change in Four Ways: Notes for Science Writers,” [[http://www.tetontectonics.org/Climate/Notes%20For%20Science%20Writers.pdf]]]
The IPCC emphasizes that methane is a greenhouse gas that absorbs much more energy than
AND
at least one large, Pinatubo-sized volcanic eruption every two years.


===2AC AT SPS Alpha Now=== 

Their solvency says its 40 years away. The cards have no warrant why we have tech now
Day, 8 (Dwayne, “Knights in shining armor,” The Space Review, 6/9,
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]]</span>)
The NSSO study is remarkably sensible and even-handed and states that we are
AND
The activists have ignored the message and fallen in love with the messenger.

===2AC AT Reforestation=== 
Reforestation doesn’t solve warming
CBC News 11 (June 20, “Replacing crops with trees barely slows warming”, [[http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/06/20/science-afforestation-montenegro.html]])
A key climate change reduction strategy recommended by the United Nations won't have much effect
AND
results in net warming, especially in areas further away from the equator.


Weather effects prevent solvency
Thompson 7 – Managing Editor, OurAmazingPlanet, Masters degree in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences (Andrea, “Trees Won't Fix Global Warming” Live Science, August 8, 2007 [[http://www.livescience.com/1754-trees-won-fix-global-warming.html]]) MLR
The plan to use trees as a way to suck up and store the extra
AND
added, because of the ramifications to the local environment and water supply.
===2AC AT Decoupling=== 
Decoupling was a myth—empirics disprove
Harris & Burrows 9 - Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Such was the world the NIC foresaw as the crisis unfolded. Now, emerging
AND
knowledge of the strategic forces affecting the United States remains to be seen.
Mapping the NIC’s predictions against early facts, one of the most interesting observations is
AND
reserves, such as Russia and South Korea, have been severely buffeted.
===2AC AT No International Adaptation=== 
International adaptation efforts now
UNFCC, ‘5/25 [UNFCC, May 25, 2012, http://www.un.org/wcm/content/site/climatechange/pages/gateway/the-negotiations/template/news_item.jsp?cid=35932]
In the field of adaptation, a draft decision text for Doha was agreed on
AND
level rise and ocean acidification, and acknowledged the importance of local communities.

US adaptation policies are modeled around the world
Sundt ’10 [10/11/10 Nick Sundt is the communications director for climate change at the world wildlife fund, staff associate at the US Climate Change Science Program Office which is sponsored by 13 federal agenices. "In Rolling Stone Interview, Obama Says "We're Going to Have to Mobilize" on Climate Change,” http://www.wwfblogs.org/climate/content/rolling-stone-interview-obama-climate-change-oct2010,
"[C]limate change has the potential to have devastating effects on people around
AND
may be necessary to maintain an adaptation program after the initial leadership push."
==DeDev== 
===2AC AT Complexity=== 
Globalisation solves transition away from complexity
Faludi 5 – Sustainable design strategist and researcher. He teaches green design at Stanford University,, Jeremy, Collapsing Upwards, World Changing, http://www.worldchanging.com/archives/002207.html
Assuming these are good models of societal collapse, what can we do to avoid
AND
so by choice rather than by need as people in collapsing societies do.

Complexity sustainable—diminishing returns don’t mean collapse—this is the author your evidence is based on
Tainter, ‘09 [10/3/09, Joseph A. Tainter, Global Institute of Sustainability and School of Human Evolution and Social Change at Arizona State University, interviewed by Kazys Varnelis, the Director of the Network Architecture Lab at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation, “Interview with Joseph Tainter on Collapse,” http://varnelis.net/blog/interview_with_joseph_tainter_on_collapse]
Diminishing returns to complexity are probably inevitable, but collapse doesn’t necessarily follow. Collapses are actually not that common. There are several ways to cope with diminishing returns to complexity. One is to find energy subsidies to pay for the process. That is what we have done with fossil fuels. And it is a big part of why a future crisis in fossil fuels is the most important thing we should be worrying about.

Complexity theory doesn’t apply to economic crises—growth is sustainable because economic recessions are a product of insufficient complexity—star this argument
Tainter, ‘09 [10/3/09, Joseph A. Tainter, Global Institute of Sustainability and School of Human Evolution and Social Change at Arizona State University, interviewed by Kazys Varnelis, the Director of the Network Architecture Lab at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation, “Interview with Joseph Tainter on Collapse,” http://varnelis.net/blog/interview_with_joseph_tainter_on_collapse]
KV: Similarly, I wonder about the role complexity played in this recession.
AND
organization, but of course too late in regard to the current crisis.


===2AC Nuke War T/ Environment=== 
Nuclear war turns the environment
Nissani, ‘92 (Nissani, Moti. (1992). Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991, chapter 2, Department of Interdisciplinary Studies / Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, [[http://www.is.wayne.edu/mnissani/PAGEPUB/CH2.html]])phol
II. Environmental Consequences. In view of the complexity and interdependence of ecological systems
AND
might temporarily increase,26d and most natural communities might undergo radical transformations.
===2AC Transition Fails=== 
No mindset shift—90% of the population is against it
Aligica, fellow at the Hudson Institute, 3 - Fellow @ Mercatus Center at George Mason U. and Adjunct Fellow @ Hudson Institute, (Paul, “The Great Transition and the Social Limits to Growth: Herman Kahn on Social Change and Global Economic Development”, April 21, http://rs.reviewhudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=2827)//

First of all Kahn pointed that the sheer social and demographic context is against the
AND
advocates are trying to avoid" (Kahn, 1976, 210; 1984
====1AR Transition Impossible==== 

Try or die for complexity
Tainter, ‘09 [10/3/09, Joseph A. Tainter, Global Institute of Sustainability and School of Human Evolution and Social Change at Arizona State University, interviewed by Kazys Varnelis, the Director of the Network Architecture Lab at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation, “Interview with Joseph Tainter on Collapse,” http://varnelis.net/blog/interview_with_joseph_tainter_on_collapse]
JT: I am often asked questions like this, and I am less optimistic
AND
won"—become sustainable forever. Success consists of staying in the game.

b. Brain chemistry
Allenby 7 (Brad, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Arizona State University, “The Benefits of Our Hardwired Need to Consume,” GreenBiz.com, March 7, http://www.greenbiz.com/blog/2007/03/08/the-benefits-our-hardwired-need-consume)
That humans are inclined to make choices that offer more pleasure than pain comes as
AND
who seek to impose such behavior change, regardless of their good intentions.

===2AC Transition Bad—Environment=== 
Try or die for growth—economic collapse is worse for all their impacts—causes extinction of every other species and then humans
Monbiot 9 – George Monbiot, columnist for The Guardian, has held visiting fellowships or professorships at the universities of Oxford (environmental policy), Bristol (philosophy), Keele (politics), Oxford Brookes (planning), and East London (environmental science, August 17, 2009, “Is there any point in fighting to stave off industrial apocalypse?,” online: http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cif-green/2009/aug/17/environment-climate-change
The interesting question, and the one that probably divides us, is this:
AND
fight is still worth having; you, because you think it isn't.
====1AR AT Barry==== 

No peak – their studies are trash
Williams 3 (Bob, Executive Editor – Oil and Gas Journal, Oil and Gas Journal, 7-14, Lexis)

A number of prominent energy consultants, economists, and petroleum scientist have taken issue
AND
it should be one input into a broader, more comprehensive market analysis."

Resource scarcity is self-correcting
Haynes 8 (Beth, Professor of Economics at Brigham Young University-Hawaii, “Finite Resources vs. Infinite Resourcefulness”, August 19, http://wealthisnottheproblem.blogspot.com/2008/08/finite-resources-vs-infinite.html)

It’s common sense. Save today in order to have some available tomorrow. It’s
AND
been with us since ancient times and they have consistently been proven wrong.

===2AC Tech=== 
Growth solves the environment—we have passed the tipping point—only innovation solves
Baker 2k – Former Industrial Economist
Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion and a steady stream of policy forums
AND
full measure to future generations everywhere in the world. Thatfuture begins now.


===2AC EKC=== 
Kuznets curve proves growth solves the environment—best model
Tierney, ’09 [4/21/09, John, Science Columnist for the New York Times, “Use Energy, Get Rich and Save the Planet,” http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/21/science/earth/21tier.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]
Their equation was I=PAT, which means that environmental impact is equal to
AND
wealth and better agricultural technology, the farm fields start reverting to forestland.

===2AC Markets Solve=== 

The market self corrects for environmental disruptions and the alternative is worse.
Adler, ’08 [2008, Jonathan H., Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Business Law and Regulation at Case Western Reserve University School of Law, Green Bridge to Nowhere, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/green-bridge-to-nowhere]
According to Speth, “most environmental deterioration is a result of systemic failures of
AND
better job of pricing and accounting for future interests than the political alternative.

====1AR Markets Solve==== 

a. Prices best
Taylor 93 (Jerry, Director of Natural Resource Studies at the CATO Institute, “The Growing Abundance of Natural Resources” in “Market Liberalism: A Paradigm for the 21st Century” CATO, http://cato.org/pubs/chapters/marlib21.html)

There are three means by which to judge the extent of our resource base
AND
beyond the human horizon that they are for all intents and purposes nonexistent.

b. Their authors fail—5 reasons
Taylor 2 (Jerry, director of natural resource studies at the Cato Institute, “Sustainable Development”, August 26, Policy Analysis No. 449)

If resources are growing more abundant while the concentration of pollutants in air sheds and
AND
of some of the more prominent reports should suffice to demonstrate the problems.

===2AC AT K Waves=== 
Kondratieff admits the theory has no basis in data
North 9 – Austrian school economic analyst, former Research Assistant for Ron Paul
(Gary, “The Myth of the Kondratieff Wave,” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/north/north725.html]], dml)
Kondratieff admitted that there was no theoretical basis for his cycle. He also admitted
AND
extreme limitations on his data and his findings. His disciples are not.


Next K-Wave won’t escalate (WE DON’T ENDORSE HOLOCAUST TRIVIALIZING LANGUAGE)
Goldfrank, Sociology Professor at UC Santa Cruz, ’99 (Walter, “The Future of Global Conflict” p 73)
Although regional conflicts could certainly escalate into global war, five factors militate against repetition
AND
less likely, but the likelihood of challenges from below is not diminished.

===2AC AT Oil Shortage=== 
Growth is sustainable – no oil shortage
Taylor 2 (Jerry, director of natural resource studies at the Cato Institute, “Sustainable Development”, August 26, Policy Analysis No. 449)

Next, let’s consider trends in the availability of commercially important metals, fuels,
AND
farmer who obsesses over conserving eggs rather than the chickens that lay them.
===2AC Solves Poverty=== 
Growth solves poverty and doesn’t cause it
Adams 3 (Richard H. Jr.: a Consultant with the PREM Poverty Unit, “Economic growth, inequality, and poverty : findings from a new data set”, February 28, http://ideas.repec.org/p/wbk/wbrwps/2972.html)

The author uses new data from 50 developing countries and 101 intervals to examine the
AND
the proportion of people living in poverty ($1 a person a day).
==Heg Good== 
===2AC Deterrence Bad=== 
Even anti-hegemonic authors agree that the US will never accept anything less than total domination
Mearsheimer 11 – John J. Mearsheimer, the “R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago” Jan/Feb 2011 “Imperial By Design” http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0059.pdf
The downward spiral the United States has taken was anything but inevitable. Washington has
AND
would see the United States as a benign hegemon serving their own interests.

Nuclear deterrent solves all war.
Thayer, ‘12 [February 17, 2012, Bradley A. Thayer served as a consultant to the Department of Defense and is professor of political science at Baylor University, “THAYER: Preserving our nuclear deterrence - Obama proposal for force reduction is foolhardy” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/feb/17/preserving-our-nuclear-deterrence/]
Last week’s leak from the Pentagon that the United States is considering reducing its nuclear
AND
weapons it and its allies need now and will need in the future.

===2AC AT Prolif Turn=== 
Heg solves proliferation – liberalism and security umbrella
Deudney et. al 2011 (Daniel is associate professor of Political Science at John’s Hopkins University. Edited by Michael Mastanduno, Professor of Government and Dean of Faculty at Dartmouth College, and G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, William Wolforth, the Daniel Webster Professor at Dartmouth College, where he teaches in the Department of Government, “Unipolarity and nuclear weapons” International Relations Theory and the Consequences of Unipolarity pg. 305) BW
The diffusion of nuclear weapons in the international system is significantly entangled with the role
AND
offers integrating states paths to secure themselves that make nuclear acquisition less attractive.

Hard power prevents nuclear acquisition
Mandelbaum, ‘5 – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 46]
By contributing in this way to the global public good of nuclear nonproliferation, the
AND
effort to restrict their spread must address the supply of them as well.

===2AC AT First Strike Turn=== 
Nuclear primacy doesn’t cause first strikes, just de-escalates conflict through coercive diplomacy
Lieber & Press, ’06 [Keir A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Foreign Affairs; September/October 2006, Vol. 85 Issue 5, “Nuclear Exchange: Does Washington Really Have (or Want) Nuclear Primacy?” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61931/peter-c-w-flory-keith-payne-pavel-podvig-alexei-arbatov-keir-a-l/nuclear-exchange-does-washington-really-have-or-?page=4]] [Abhik]]
Third, we have never claimed that the United States is pursuing a first strike
AND
accurate missile warheads, building missile defenses, or both. [10]
==Add Ons== 
===2AC Bioterror Add On=== 
Advanced Manufacturing Techniques provide the tools necessary to stop bioterror attacks
Morgan et al. 3
(Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson Organic Materials Department, Ramona L. Myers Nuclear Safety Assessment Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review “September 2003, http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf) //moxley
Perhaps the most unique and advantageous aspect of biomanufacturing is the excellent control that may
AND
National Laboratories has the expertise to contribute to any one of these fields.

Attack coming now and will cause extinction
Glassman 4/4 – Former undersecretary of state for public affairs and public diplomacy, He is executive director of the George W. Bush Institute, (James K, April 4, 2012, “We're Letting Our Bioterrorism Defenses Down,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesglassman/2012/04/04/were-letting-our-bioterrorism-defenses-down
A little over three years ago, a commission of experts, established by Congress
AND
crowded city, doing far more damage than a brigade of suicide bombers.
===2AC China Taiwan Add On=== 

Loss of manufacturing Risks a China-Taiwan War
Steven Mosher 2/14/06
(President of the Population Research Institute, CQ Congressional Testimony, “Chinese Influence on U.S. Foreign Policy” pg lexis)
The ruthless mercantilism practiced by the CCP is thus a form of economic warfare.
AND
American military assets in the Asian- Pacific will have to be neutralized.

Extinction.
The Strait Times, 2k
[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]
The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.

===2AC Competitiveness Add On (Manufacturing)=== 
Advanced manu solves
Swezey 11 (Devon Swezey, Project Director for Breakthrough Institute where he works as an energy and climate policy analyst and Ryan McConaghy, “Manufacturing Growth Advanced Manufacturing and the Future of the American Economy,” pg online @ [[http://thebreakthrough.org/blog/BTI_Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_Manufacturing_Growth_.pdf]] //)

New manufacturing will help determine whether America leads or follows in the world economy.
AND
and IT, with government ministries working in close collaboration with industry. 39

===2AC Competitiveness Add On (Highways)=== 
Highways investment is key to competitiveness
Keane ’11 [4/8/11, Thomas P. Keane is an economist in FHWA's Office of Policy Development. He works both in research relating to the economic impacts of highway infrastructure investment and on the FHWA Congestion Pricing Team in the areas of variable tolling and parking pricing issues. He has been employed by FHWA since November 1990. He has a master's degree in applied economics from the University of Maryland. “The Economic Importance of the National Highway System,” Federal Highway Administration, Initially written in 1996, Updated 4/08/11 [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm]]]
When transportation decision-makers at the federal, state, and local levels discuss
AND
900 full-time, on-site, highway construction jobs nationally.

===2AC Cotton Add On=== 
Ports are key to US cotton exports
Rossen ’11 [5/11/11 Parr Rossen is A report prepared under cooperative agreements between the Agricultural Marketing Service and Texas AgriLife Research (Parr, “Impacts of Transportation Infrastructure on the U.S. Cotton Industry”, CNAS, 5/11, http://www.ams.usda.gov/AMSv1.0/getfile?dDocName=STELPRDC5092073]
Because the U.S. cotton industry is highly dependent on foreign markets,
AND
and are expected to again strain the U.S. port system.

That’s key to the Chinese textile industry
Asia Times ‘6 [12/6, “China’s cotton conundrum,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/HL06Cb01.html]
Quantity import of foreign cotton has met the demand and helped cut the production costs
AND
Imported cotton also has advantages in terms of delivery date and higher quality.

Chinese Textile Industry is key to CCP stability
Stratfor ‘8 [6/12/08, Stratfor is a subscription-based provider of geopolitical analysis “China: Rescuing the Textile Industry,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/china_rescuing_textile_industry]
Sample Article: China: Rescuing the Textile Industry Summary A proposal by China's Ministry
AND
pressure on trade surplus figures become irrelevant, to the regime at least.

Extinction
Yee ‘2 [Herbert Yee is an Associate Professor of Government @ Hong Kong Baptist University, and Storey, Asian-Pacific Center for Security Studies, “China Threat: Perception, Myths, and Reality,” p. 5)
The fourth factor contributing to the perception of a china threat is the fear of
AND
disintegrating China would also pose a threat to its neighbours and the world.

===2AC Cybersecurity Add On=== 
DIB offshoring destroys our electronic security
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Aerospace America; August, 2K6 (James W. Canan, “The changing defense industrial base”, Features; Pg. 34, Highlight, Lexis)
For some time, the defense industrial base has been spreading into segments of U
AND
design work threatens to follow production work to cost-saving offshore facilities.

Cyberattacks lead to WMD warfare
Lawson ‘9 [Sean Lawson is a, Ph.D. from the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute dissertation on Nonlinear Science and the Emergence of Information Age Warfare in the United States Military, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation”, http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)
Based on the premise that completely blinding a potential adversary is a good indicator to
AND
of cyberattacks (namely, cyberattacks with devastating impacts) may be possible.

===2AC EU Relations Add On=== 
Continued defiance of Multilateralism is the lynchpin of U.S./Europe Disputes and represents the death-nail to relations
ACI, ’04 [The Atlantic Community Initiative 5/11/2004 (“Unilateralism and Transatlantic Relations” - Summary of the Chapter on U.S. Power and Influence in Europe published in June 2004 by the Georgetown Institute for the Study of Diplomacy) http://www.atlanticcommunity.org/aci%2003-11-04%20editorial.html]
The alliance between the United States and Europe was at the heart of the Cold
AND
support and involvement from key US allies in Europe and around the globe.

Key to Solve Global Conflict
Asmus, Senior Fellow, CFR ‘3 (Ronald D.; Senior Fellow—Council on Foreign Relations) “Rebuilding the Atlantic Alliance” Foreign Affairs Sept/Oct l/n
Meeting in Washington in the spring of 1999, NATO leaders pledged to recast the
AND
of the new era, the world will be much the better for it
===2AC Hegemony Add On=== 
Overall manufacturing industry is key to hegemony
O’Hanlon 2k12
http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/defense%20ohanlon/02_defense_ohanlon
The United States faces other problems too. Despite the strength of certain cutting-
AND
develop and trying to respond only then. They are all of concern.

===2AC Hegemony Add On (Sopo)=== 
Plan key to make hegemony durable
Kurtbag ’07 ÖMER KURTBAG, 2007, PHD from Ankara University (the primier educational instition in the Middle East) in International Relations,Turkish Yearbook of International Relations, “U.S. EMPIRE BUILDING AS A FAILING PROJECT: IS AMERICAN SUPREMACY SUSTAINABLE AND DURABLE?” http://www.politics.ankara.edu.tr/eski/dosyalar/MMTY/38/2_ omer_kurtbag.pdf
In today’s unipolar setting, the American leadership is on the wane in the light
AND
trajectory cannot deny the fact that every hegemonic order paradoxically produces its opponent.
===2AC Hunger Add On=== 
U.S. agriculture can solve global hunger and poverty
Thompson 10 – professor emeritus of agricultural policy at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, has joined The Chicago Council as a senior fellow for global agricultural development and food security (Robert- “The Chicago Council on Global Affairs Expands Program to Support a Renewed U.S. Focus on Global Agricultural Development; Names Several World Food Prize Laureates to Advisory Group”, The World Food Prize, Dec 23, 12/23/10, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003)//GP]]</span>
A number of policy developments indicate that the United States is beginning to recognize the
AND
the Future Guide and discussed how to overcome challenges to the initiative’s implementation.
===2AC Legitimacy Add On=== 
Action on climate adaptation reverses the negative perception of US hard power and solves soft power
Joseph S. Nye, Jr 2009 - Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Los Angeles Times, bhhsnormans.net)
The Pentagon is the best resourced arm of the government, but there are limits
AND
United States managed to recover its soft power. It can happen again.


Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes extinction
Ikenberry ’02 [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]
Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however. Unchecked U.S. power
AND
tend to trigger self-encirclement by their own overestimation of their power.
===2AC Middle East War Add On=== 
Loss of ag leads to middle east conflict – turns your impact
Thier 11 – staff writer for AOLNews, citing FAO economist and grains expert Abdolreza Abbassian (David, “Are Record Food Prices Fueling Global Instability?”, February 4, 2011, [[http://www.aolnews.com/2011/02/04/are-record-food-prices-fueling-global-instability/)/MG|http://www.aolnews.com/2011/02/04/are-record-food-prices-fueling-global-instability/)//MG]]
Food prices are rising, warns the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, and
AND
to think that not only it could be, but that it is."
===2AC Russia Add On=== 
DIB deters war with russai
Watts 2k8
(Senior Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry D, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” CBA, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf)
Since the 1950s, the US defense industrial base has been a source of long
AND
term advantage in the decades ahead as it has been since the 1950s.

It's the only existential risk-
Bostrom 2 (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)
The unique challenge of existential risks Risks in this sixth category are a recent phenomenon
AND
risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall

===2AC Tech Leadership Add On=== 
Manufacturing base key to US tech dominance
Hawkins 2k4
(William R. Hawkins, Senior Fellow for National Security Studies at the U.S. Business and Industry Council. 1/6/2004 “Debate Rages Over How to Respond to China’s Economic Challenge”, Jamestown Foundation, China Brief, v4n1, http://www.jamestown.org/publications_details.php?volume_id=395&issue_id=2888&article_id=23437)
It may, however, be time to consider protecting strategic sectors of the American
AND
-third to one-tenth what they are in the United States.

This turns ALL impacts – US technology leadership facilitates a process of collective engagement that reduces the likelihood and magnitude of international conflict
Federoff, USAID Administrator, ‘8 (Dr. Nina, April 2, “International Science And Technology Cooperation,” Statement before the Committee on House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, CQ Congressional Testimony)
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank
AND
will promote greater U.S.-African regional cooperation on this issue.
===2AC Trade Add On=== 
Ports key to trade
Nagle ’11 [12/2011, Kurt Nagle is the president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” Industry Today vol. 14, no. 3, [[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]]]

It seems the United States willingly allows infrastructure to crumble as other countries – particularly
AND
Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) is utilized to maintain federal navigation channels.
==Topicality== 
===2AC Aspec=== 
“Federal Government” doesn’t mean “all three branches”
Chicago 7 (University of Chicago Manual of Style, “Capitalization, Titles”, http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/CMS_FAQ/CapitalizationTitles/CapitalizationTitles30.html)
Q. When I refer to the government of the United States in text,
AND
: the Congress, the Senate, the Department of State, etc.

The United States federal government is the basis for our interpretation and smaller actors within the government is a valid interpretation.
Words and Phrases Dictionary v.16 1998

“Action against the Postal service,
AND
government’s consent to be sued.”
===2AC T Maintenance=== 
C/I – transportation investment can include maintenance
Deshpande and Elmendorf 8 - Senior Research Assistant of The Hamilton Project, senior fellow in the Economic Studies program at the Brookings Institute and previous principal analyst at Congressional Budget Office (Manasi and Douglas, An Economic Strategy for Investing in America’s Infrastructure, 7/08, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2008/7/infrastructure%20elmendorf/07_infrastructurestrat_elmendorf.pdf)//EM

Over time spending has shifted relatively from new capacity to operation and maintenance of existing
AND
risen for mass transit and aviation while falling for highways and water transportation.

===2AC T Maintenance=== 
Their interpretation overlimits—increase can only modify what is already developed
Merriam Webster’s, 1998
Increase: to make greater, argument, implies to what is already well grown, or well developed

Their interpretation locks us into the worse affs with no link uniqueness—the best topic area is maintaining existing infrastructure
Kahn and Levinson, ’11 [February 2011, Matthew E. Kahn and David M. Levinson, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2011/02_highway_infrastructure_kahn_levinson/02_highway_infrastructure_kahn_levinson_paper.pdf]
More than five decades ago, the federal government built an excellent interstate highway network
AND
maintaining existing transportation infrastructure and overinvesting in other, less-productive areas.

===2AC T Investment=== 
C/I – infrastructure investment just spending on assets that facilitate transportation –
Riley 9 – Head of economics at Eton College, co-found of tutor2u.net (Geoff, Revision: Business investment, 5/3/09, http://tutor2u.net/blog/index.php/economics/comments/revision-business-investment)//EM
Different Types of Investment 1. Capital investment is spending on capital goods such as
AND
ports – this can be done by the private and the public sector.

===2AC T Increase=== 
Counter interpretation – doesn’t have to be preexisting
Reinhardt, 05 – U.S. Judge for the UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT (Stephen, JASON RAY REYNOLDS; MATTHEW RAUSCH, Plaintiffs-Appellants, v. HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.; HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY, Defendants-Appellees., lexis)
The phrase, "has previously been charged," as used by Hartford, refers
AND
which a company raises the rate that an individual has previously been charged.

===2AC T Substantial=== 
C/I - Substantially means to a great or significant extent:
Christine Lindberg, 2007 (Managing Editor), OXFORD COLLEGE DICTIONARY, 2nd Ed., 07, 1369. (NY: Sparks Publishing)
Substantially: to a great or significant extent.

==Disadvantages== 
===2AC Immigration Reform DA=== 
Immigration reform won’t pass
Paparelli et. al. ’12 [12/27/12, Angelo A. Paparelli, Ted J. Chiappari, and Olivia M. Sanson are partners at Seyfarth Shaw in NY and LA, “Comprehensive Immigration Reform Is Waiting in the Wings,” New York Journal vol. 248, no. 123]
Following President Obama's re-election, numerous political pundits have suggested that there are
AND
a raised ceiling on H-1B and H-2B visa numbers.

Debt Ceiling thumps all – draw in is inevitable and outweighs other issues
Speath ’1-3 [1/3/12, Ryu Speath is a writer for The Week. “Will Congress' budget battles kill immigration reform and gun control?” http://theweek.com/article/index/238367/will-congress-budget-battles-kill-immigration-reform-and-gun-control]
A midst the eleventh-hour drama surrounding the fiscal cliff, every other issue
AND
— with something like this, Congress just comes to a complete standstill."


Sandy floods the link to their DA—climate change infrastructure improvements now generate bipartisan support
Keim, ‘12 [11/12/2012, Brandon Keim, “Swept in by a Hurricane, Climate Change Returns to Washington”, http://www.motherjones.com/environment/2012/11/climate-change-sandy-washington-politics]
Pooley's optimism may ring hollow to people who remember the 2010 climate change bill,
AND
Mayor Bloomberg's own PlaNYC project is a blueprint for some of these approaches.

It solves their link—Sandy makes pushing the plan easy—Obama doesn’t have to spend pol cap
Nichols, ‘12 [12/07/12, Jordan Nichols, “Obama 2.0 -- Now what?”, http://www.climatesciencewatch.org/2012/12/07/obama-2-0-now-what/]
Where does Hurricane Sandy fit into all this? Markey said the damages brought up
AND
stated he would do, and we must hold him accountable to it.

Political Capital theory is false for Obama – second term means he’s uniquely weaker and he refuses to fight
Thursh ’13 [1/1/13, Glenn Thrush “Fiscal cliff: President Obama's legacy trap,” http://www.politico.com/story/2013/01/fiscal-cliff-obamas-legacy-trap-85636_Page4.html]
President Barack Obama hopes — expects, really — that ’13 will be his lucky
AND
fights he feels he can’t win than he was before beating Mitt Romney.

Political Capital theory is false – congressional factors determine legislative success
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]]]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.

====1AR Won’t Pass==== 
The GOP won’t support CIR --- momentum hasn’t changed.
SFC ’12-31 [12/31/2012, San Francisco Chronicle, Congress Dysfunction as Deadline Arrives Poses 2013 Risks, p. [[http://www.sfgate.com/business/bloomberg/article/Congress-Dysfunction-as-Deadline-Arrives-Poses-4157560.php#page-3|http://www.sfgate.com/business/bloomberg/article/Congress-Dysfunction-as-Deadline-Arrives-Poses-4157560.php#page-3]]]
“Boehner and his Republican conference will have leverage over the Democrats on raising
AND
a fair hearing,” said Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat.

====1AR Sandy Turn==== 
Sandy makes the aff above politics—unanimous support
Walton, ’12 [11/30/12, Brett Walton is a Seattle-based reporter for Circle of Blue. He writes our Federal Water Tap, a weekly breakdown of U.S. policy, “Senate Committee Continues to Discuss Sandy, Climate Change and Infrastructure”, http://www.circleofblue.org/waternews/2012/commentary/editorial-in-the-circle-fresh-focus/senate-committee-continues-to-discuss-sandy-climate-change-and-infrastructure/]
The hearing was a rare jewel for this Congress. The members in the committee chamber expressed a near unanimity of purpose, that the region’s vital systems must be made stronger and more resilient. If we can’t get this done, Boxer said, “shame on us. Certain things are way above politics, and this superstorm is one of them.”

====AT Competitiveness Impact==== 
Immigration not key to competitiveness
Malanga ‘6 [Steve Malanga is a Contributing Editor to City Journal and a Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute. “How Unskilled Immigrants Hurt Our Economy,” http://www.city-journal.org/html/16_3_immigrants_economy.html]
As foreign competition and mechanization shrink manufacturing and farmworker jobs, low-skilled immigrants
AND
gross domestic product by hundreds of billions of dollars, generally just tally what

====AT Cybersecurity Impact==== 

H1B won’t be included
Fakhoury ’10 [Rami Fakhoury is an International Lecturer & fellow for the Center for International Legal Studies, “The Fight Back Book: Introduction Part A, B” by Rami Fakhoury and Mark Levey, http://www.ilw.com/articles/2010,1020-fakhoury.shtm]
The House CIR Bill which in revised form is similar to the H-1B
AND
1B may appear an enticing target within easy reach in the lower branches.

====AT India Relations Impact==== 
US/Indian relations are resilient
Mancuso 8 (Mario, Undersecretary of Commerce, “The Future of the U.S.-India High Technology Relationship”, 6-2, http://www.bis.doc.gov/news/2008/mancuso06052008.htm)
The strength of today’s U.S. and India relationship is real, and
AND
as the U.S.-India High Technology Cooperation Group (HTCG).
===2AC Fiscal Cliff=== 

Republicans will kick the can BECAUSE OF OBAMA’S CAPITAL – doing it later denies him leverage.
Stein 11/16/12
Sam, Huffington Post staff writer, Boehner Pushes Obama To Relocate Fiscal Cliff Farther Down The Road, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/16/boehner-obama-fiscal-cliff_n_2146603.html
But a statement from Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) to Bloomberg
AND
the sequester. The White House did not return a request for comment.


Winners win – empirics
Green 2011 - professor of political science at Hofstra University (June 11, David, “ The Do-Nothing 44th President ” [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]])
The fundamental characteristic of the Obama presidency is that the president is a reactive object
AND
. The three cases mentioned at the top of this essay are paradigmatic.

Winners win – key to mandate.
Rottinghaus 11/7
Brandon Rottinghaus is an associate professor of political science and the Senator Don Henderson Scholar at the University of Houston, Obama Will Have to Bargain for His Mandate, http://www.usnews.com/debate-club/does-barack-obama-have-a-mandate/obama-will-have-to-bargain-for-his-mandate
It would be tempting for the White House (and pundits) to suggest to
AND
re-election is just an invitation to struggle for four more years.

Key to the agenda – Congressional perception is key
Grossback et al 2005
Lawrence J., West Virginia University Prof of PoliSci American Journal of Political Science Volume 49, Issue 2 (April 2005) Comparing Competing Theories on the Causes of Mandate Perceptions http://people.tamu.edu/~daveamp/mandajps2.pdf
The fact that mandates center around elections implies a second commonality. There can be
AND
the member’s voting should be different from when there is no such perception.

Turn – Adaptation measures are popular with the public
New Atlantis, ’08 [Winter 2008, The Editors of The New Atlantis, "Adapting to Climate Change," The New Atlantis, Number 19, p. 146.]
Other changes are on the horizon, too. Although the leading presidential candidates all
AND
climate change that demands neither a denial of the facts nor economic suicide.

Overwhelmingly popular with the public
Clayton, ’9/7 [09/07/12, Mark Clayton, “Climate change: why it could be a hot topic on the campaign trail”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/President/2012/0907/Climate-change-why-it-could-be-a-hot-topic-on-the-campaign-trail]
But there are also indications that Obama, scratching for support among independent voters in
AND
is neutral impact – winning independent votes, but losing some conservative support."

Passing Popular policies insures victories in congress – studies prove
SPITZER 93 Prof of Poli Sci, State University of New York
[Robert J., President and Congress: Executive Hegemony at the Crossroads of American Government]
An important empirical study of the relationship between the President’s public standing and presidential support
AND
-term decline in a President’s public standing is by no means inevitable.


Transportation funding popular – transportation bill proves
HD ‘6-30 [6/30/12, Hickory Daily Record. “Congress proves bipartisan effort does work,” [[http://www2.hickoryrecord.com/news/2012/jun/30/congress-proves-bipartisan-effort-does-work-ar-2398892/]]]
Independence Day is time to celebrate freedom and wave the flag. The flag is
AND
and their actions are worth some extra flag-waving this Independence Day.

Political Capital theory is false – congressional factors determine legislative success
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]]]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.

Even if it is true – Obama uniquely does not follow traditional theories of political capital – he fails at using it
Kuttner, ‘11 [5/16/11, Robert, Senior Fellow at the American Prospect, “Barack Obama's Theory of Power,” The American Prospect, [[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power]], SM]
As the political scientist Richard Neustadt observed in his classic work, Presidential Power,
AND
operating theory of power. For the most part, it hasn’t worked.

LaHood will push the plan
Wolfe ’12 [5/13/12, Kathryn A. Wolfe “Nation's potholes need a big fix,” [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76254.html]]]
The nation’s population is growing at a steady pace, yet infrastructure investments lag.
AND
our specific transportation priorities and is fully paid for,” the agency said.

====Glenbrooks Uniqueness==== 

No deal – stubbornness.
FoxLat, ‘11/19 [Nov 19, 2012, “Lawmakers Face Elevated Hurdles in Climb to Fiscal Cliff Resolution” http://latino.foxnews.com/latino/politics/2012/11/19/lawmakers-face-elevated-hurdles-in-climb-to-fiscal-cliff-resolution/]
Washington – In order to reach a solution to stave off an avalanche of tax
AND
find a way to avoid a New Year's drive over the fiscal cliff.

Won’t Pass – Compromise is not coming
Bartiromo ’11-15 [11/15/12, Maria Bartiromo is writer CBNC. “Bartiromo: ‘Fiscal Cliff’ Deal? Don’t Count on It” http://www.cnbc.com/id/49836962]
The Mayans may not be right about the world ending by the end of 2012, but the next month and a half is looking a lot more panic-stricken than celebratory.
The ongoing fight over the "fiscal cliff" may overshadow everything else as we
AND
the fiscal cliff and that will likely lead to a recession in 2013.

Doesn’t solve – multiple warrants.
Binder 10/19
Sarah, Senior Fellow- Governance Studies @ Brookings, “Accelerated Regular Order”: Could it lead the parties to a grand bargain?, The Monkey Cage, http://themonkeycage.org/blog/2012/10/19/accelerated-regular-order-could-it-lead-the-parties-to-a-grand-bargain/

This is an interesting argument worth considering. Still, I’m not so sure that
AND
Congress’s procedural tool kit in a period of divided and split party control.

Wrong – Boehner said he wants to push the deal into 2013.
Stein 11/16/12
Sam, Huffington Post staff writer, Boehner Pushes Obama To Relocate Fiscal Cliff Farther Down The Road, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/16/boehner-obama-fiscal-cliff_n_2146603.html

WASHINGTON -- Following an hour-long meeting at the White House on Friday morning
AND
for tax and entitlement reform in 2013 that sets revenue and spending levels."


====Rice Thumper==== 

Rice nomination drains polcap for fiscal cliff now
AFP 11/15/12
Agence France Press, Obama Vents over Attacks on His U.N. Envoy, http://www.naharnet.com/stories/en/60798
An outraged President Barack Obama on Wednesday accused Republicans, including John McCain, of
AND
duels with Republicans over a "fiscal cliff" debt and spending crisis.


Benghazi and the Rice confirmation will eat up capital.
ROHR 11/16/12
ROHR International, market consultation firm, 2012/11/16: The Petraeus Predicament and bye-bye Ho-Ho’s, http://rohrintlblog.wordpress.com/2012/11/16/20121116-the-petraeus-predicament-and-bye-bye-ho-hos/#more-2069
Far more important is whether this is a classic case of the old cliché “
AND
both of those issues through their control of the powerful Senate committee apparatus.

====1AR Obama Polcap Bad==== 


Obama PC collapses budget negotiations---2011 proves.
Hotline 9/10 (The Hotline, 9/10/12, Slow and Steady Wins the Race, Lexis)

Gaps in Obama's leadership contributed to the collapse of a "grand bargain" on
AND
beginning of a war" (Klein, ABC, 9/10).


====AT Economy Impact==== 
No impact to delay or economy – market expectations aren’t negative and resilient
Irwin ’11-16 [11/16/12, Neil Irwin is a writer for the Washington Post. “Markets aren’t very worried about the austerity crisis,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2012/11/16/markets-arent-very-worried-about-the-austerity-crisis/]
It’s begun. The first negotiating session between Congressional leaders and the White House over
AND
so bad. We can all hope that political leaders prove them right.

Consumer spending solves and they don’t perceive the cliff.
Lee 11/15/12
Don, Los Angeles Times staff writer, Corporate chiefs fear 'fiscal cliff,' but consumers are unfazed, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/nov/15/business/la-fi-fiscal-cliff-consumers-20121115/2
WASHINGTON — U.S. companies had been pulling the country out of the
AND
Richard Curtin, the longtime director of the University of Michigan consumer surveys.

====AT Sequestration Impact==== 
Sequestration won’t happen – insider consensus.
Wheeler 2011
Winslow T., director of the Straus Military Reform Project, Super Committee Not So Super, http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=4682
First, the Supercommittee is bound to fail; it will reach no meaningful budget
AND
members demonstrated precisely why the vast majority of Americans hold them in contempt.

No impact to sequestration – no challengers, we’ll still be ahead, allies will fill in.
Logan 11/15
Justin, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, The Pentagon Will Survive the Fiscal Cliff, http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/world-report/2012/11/15/the-fiscal-cliff-doesnt-threaten-the-pentagon-or-global-order
A common trope of hawkish foreign policy writers is that America took a "holiday
AND
and treasure prolifically and unnecessarily for one major reason: because we can.
===2AC LOST DA=== 
Lost won’t pass now
Dan Joling, August 17th, 2012, 8/17 (writer, Juneau Empire, “Murkowski hopeful on passing the Law of the Sea treaty,” [[http://juneauempire.com/dan-joling/2012-08-17/murkowski-hopeful-passing-law-sea-treaty#.UEGIEdYia3F|http://juneauempire.com/dan-joling/2012-08-17/murkowski-hopeful-passing-law-sea-treaty#.UEGIEdYia3F]] >:)
ANCHORAGE — Melting summer sea ice is opening up the Arctic Ocean to commercial opportunities
AND
priority over other legislation such as automatic deficit reduction or tax cut extension.

Political Capital theory is false – congressional factors determine legislative success
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]]]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.

Even if it is true – Obama uniquely does not follow traditional theories of political capital – he fails at using it
Kuttner, ‘11 [5/16/11, Robert, Senior Fellow at the American Prospect, “Barack Obama's Theory of Power,” The American Prospect, [[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power]], SM]
As the political scientist Richard Neustadt observed in his classic work, Presidential Power,
AND
operating theory of power. For the most part, it hasn’t worked.

====1AR Compartmentalization==== 

A. Studies – Goes negative
Edwards 9 – Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M University, holds the George and Julia Blucher Jordan Chair in Presidential Studies and has served as the Olin Professor of American Government at Oxford (George, “The Strategic President”, Printed by the Princeton University Press, pg. 9-10)MGM
The tenacity with which many commentators embrace the persuasive potential of political leadership is striking
AND
the leader rather than with the opportunities for change in the leader's environment.

Their studies mistake causation with correlation
Dickinson, 09 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)
What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals
AND
has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee.
===2AC Cybersecurity DA=== 
Cybersecurity won’t pass – or Obama will XO it and it’s inevitable
Boggs and Donoghue ’10-11 [JC Boggs, Lauren M. Donoghue, “Cybersecuirty Legislation Unlikely to Pass During Lame Ducky,” http://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/cybersecurity-legislation-unlikely-to-pa-55431/]
With an already full schedule and no clear path forward for compromise, there is
AND
with representatives from various departments to assess and report on cyber security issues.

LaHood will push the plan
Wolfe ’12 [5/13/12, Kathryn A. Wolfe “Nation's potholes need a big fix,” [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76254.html]]]
The nation’s population is growing at a steady pace, yet infrastructure investments lag.
AND
our specific transportation priorities and is fully paid for,” the agency said.

Transportation funding popular – transportation bill proves or the link should’ve been triggered already
HD ‘6-30 [6/30/12, Hickory Daily Record. “Congress proves bipartisan effort does work,” [[http://www2.hickoryrecord.com/news/2012/jun/30/congress-proves-bipartisan-effort-does-work-ar-2398892/]]]
Independence Day is time to celebrate freedom and wave the flag. The flag is
AND
and their actions are worth some extra flag-waving this Independence Day.

Political Capital theory is false – congressional factors determine legislative success
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]]]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.

Even if it is true – Obama uniquely does not follow traditional theories of political capital – he fails at using it
Kuttner, ‘11 [5/16/11, Robert, Senior Fellow at the American Prospect, “Barack Obama's Theory of Power,” The American Prospect, [[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power]], SM]
As the political scientist Richard Neustadt observed in his classic work, Presidential Power,
AND
operating theory of power. For the most part, it hasn’t worked.

Impact is grossly exaggerated --- case outweighs
Lawson, ‘11 (Sean, “Phantom Cyber Wars are a Distraction,” 11/4/2011, http://www.forbes.com/sites/seanlawson/2011/11/04/phantom-cyber-wars-are-a-distraction/)
British sociologist Frank Furedi notes that an increasingly prominent feature of postmodern society is a
AND
“phantom” threats and miss the reality staring us in the face.
===2AC Elections DA (Obama Bad)=== 
Obama will win now by a clear margin, but it could still swing—a consensus of the best election models prove
Klein, ‘9/17 [9/17/12, Ezra Klein, “The Romney campaign is in trouble”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/09/17/romney-is-behind-and-the-debates-arent-likely-to-save-him/]
On the presidential level, where everyone running campaigns is very, very good at
AND
crack under the pressure, then that comeback becomes that much less likely.

Turn—Deficits—spending makes the plan unpopular—no perceived beneift
Ken Orski, editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford, and JD @ Harvard Law, 2-5-2012, NewGeography, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

That causes independent backlash – they are key
Douglas Schoen, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-2012, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A
Neither party focuses on issues that matter most to people: reviving the economy,
AND
their concerns will almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.

The aff’s studies are flawed – support for transportation doesn’t apply to specific policies.
Hemingway, ’12 (Mark, Editor @ Weekly Standard, 2/27, lexis)
This may come as a shock to many pollsters and much of the press corps
AND
on the political class? They're more likely to if they read this book

====AT Gridlock Impact==== 
Gridlock inevitable
McManus 8/23 [8/23/12, Doyle McManus is an American journalist, columnist, who appears often on Public Broadcasting Service's Washington Week, "Gridlock likely in Washington no matter who wins presidential race", http://articles.latimes.com/2012/aug/23/opinion/la-oe-mcmanus-column-election-outcome-20120823]
There are plenty of things not to like about this year's presidential campaign, including
AND
Romney," a biography by Boston Globe reporters Michael Kranish and Scott Helman.

===2AC Elections DA (Obama Good)=== 

Turn—Climate Credibility—Adaptation measure’s key to election credibility on climate change, but avoids the political dangers of mitigation efforts
New Atlantis, ’08 [Winter 2008, The Editors of The New Atlantis, "Adapting to Climate Change," The New Atlantis, Number 19, p. 146.]
Other changes are on the horizon, too. Although the leading presidential candidates all
AND
climate change that demands neither a denial of the facts nor economic suicide.

That’s key to independents in swing states
Clayton, ’9/7 [09/07/12, Mark Clayton, “Climate change: why it could be a hot topic on the campaign trail”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/President/2012/0907/Climate-change-why-it-could-be-a-hot-topic-on-the-campaign-trail]
But there are also indications that Obama, scratching for support among independent voters in
AND
is neutral impact – winning independent votes, but losing some conservative support."

Donohue shields Obama
Keifer, ‘11 [1/11/11, Francine, Journalist @ CSM, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Editorial-Board-Blog/2011/0111/The-clout-and-cover-of-Tom-Donohue]
The clout and cover of Tom Donohue Unlike a politician, Thomas Donohue -- CEO
AND
touching the third rail with them, not just pointing them to it.

Turn—The Economy—Plan wins it for Obama—transportation spending is overwhelmingly popular because of job benefits
Rockefeller Foundation, 11 (Survey Methodology: From January 29 to February 6, 2011, Hart Research (D) and Public Opinion Strategies (R) conducted a national survey of voters on behalf of the Rockefeller
Foundation. http://www.rockefellerfoundation.org/uploads/files/80e28432-0790-4d42-91ec-afb6d11febee.pdf)
This Rockefeller Foundation Infrastructure Survey highlights 4 key findings: American voters see improvement in
AND
our representatives in Washington to listen closely to what the public is saying.”

Outweighs their spending link
Halsey, ’12 [4/24/12, Ashley Halsey III is a staff writer for The Washington Post, “Infrastructure projects need public support, transportation experts say”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/experts-want-to-build-public-support-for-infrastructure-projects/2012/04/23/gIQAvmMXcT_story.html]
The plan to energize public support was outlined Monday in a report by transportation experts
AND
through 2035 to rebuild and improve roads, rail systems and air transportation.

Jobs are key for Obama to win the October debates
Cassata, ‘9/8 [9/8/12, Donna Cassata is a staff writer for the Associated Press, “Matchup of the fall political season: Obama vs. Romney in 3 debates, all in October”; http://www.newser.com/article/da15kop02/matchup-of-the-fall-political-season-obama-vs-romney-in-3-debates-all-in-october.html]
Typically the top political draw in the final sprint to Election Day, the debates
AND
Gallup Organization. This format that could elicit the unusual and the memorable.

Plan perceived as as saving money
Barcaskey, 11
RICHARD J. BARCASKEY, Executive Director, CAWP, Construction Association of Western Pennsylvania, Pitt Post Gazette, 7/18)
Neglecting our infrastructure will only force taxpayers to pay more later since it is more
AND
is both fiscally responsible and responsive to our nation's very significant transportation needs.


====Cap Classic Uniqueness==== 

Obama win is locked in—too many routes to victory
Shrum, ‘10/26 [10/26/12, Robert Shrum, Daily Beast, “Robert Shrum: Why Obama Will Win”, www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/10/26/robert-shrum-why-obama-will-win.html

Obama’s strategists knew the Romney spin was and is as ephemeral as the air it’s
AND
cycle of spin about the impending, even inevitable Romney presidency is ending.
====Bronx Uniqueness==== 
Consensus of polls show Romney is winning EVERY FACTOR
Muja ’10-14 [10/14/12, Sahit Muja is a writer for the Examiner, President and CEO of Albanian. “Poll of Polls: Obama leads in Ohio, Romney leads Obama in 16 latest polls” [[http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-leads-romney-51-to-46-ohio|__http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-leads-romney-51-to-46-ohio__]]]
Sahit Muja: The United States economy is battered and drifting after 4 years of
AND
%, Obama at 43.7% and 6.1% unsure.

Romney wins now – Likely voters and consensus go GOP after the first debate
Easley ’10-17 [10/17/12, Jonathan Easley is a writer for The Hill, political insider newspaper in Washington. “Gallup: Romeny’s lead among likely voters expands to six points,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/262557-gallup-romney-opens-up-6-point-national-lead|__http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/262557-gallup-romney-opens-up-6-point-national-lead__]]]
Mitt Romney picked up two points overnight among likely voters and now holds a 6
AND
Iowa, Colorado and Ohio, are true toss-ups right now.

Romney winning independents and swing states now
USA Today ’10-15 [“Obama, Romney in dead heat heading into Tuesday's debate” http://www.freep.com/article/20121015/NEWS15/121015012/Obama-Romney-in-tight-race]
On the other hand, Romney leads 50%-48% in the poll's 10
AND
win the election (down from 61% before the first presidential debate).

Romney winning independents and swing states now
USA Today ’10-15 [“Obama, Romney in dead heat heading into Tuesday's debate” http://www.freep.com/article/20121015/NEWS15/121015012/Obama-Romney-in-tight-race]
On the other hand, Romney leads 50%-48% in the poll's 10
AND
win the election (down from 61% before the first presidential debate).

The election is rigged – the Bilderberg conference determines the winner.
Salbuchi, ‘12 [May 29, 2012, Adrian Salbuchi is a political analyst, author, speaker and radio/TV commentator in Argentina, Reprinted with permission from Russia Today, “Bilderberg Power Masters Meet in the US” http://lewrockwell.com/rep3/bilderberg-us-meet.html]
Every time a Bilderberg Meeting takes place, important things happen. The last time
AND
those of us saying, “It’s the Bilderbergers and Trilateralists, Stupid!”

Romney will steal the election – voter disenfranchisement, especially Ohio.
Fitrakis and Wasserman, ‘9/5 [Bob Fitrakis & Harvey Wasserman are authors of WILL THE GOP STEAL AMERICA’S 2012 ELECTION, September 5, 2012, “Will the GOP Steal America's 2012 Election?” http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/09/05/1128300/-Will-the-GOP-Steal-America-s-2012-Election]
The Republican Party could steal the 2012 US Presidential election with relative ease. Six
AND
and reliable electoral system can be achieved only with a massive grassroots upheaval.

====Georgetown Uniqueness==== 

Elections predictions impossible—poll volatility, models are inconclusive, black swans, and the debates—means you default to the link
DuPont, ‘9/27 [September 27, 2012, Pete DuPont, “The Election Isn't Over”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443916104578022620555989036.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_MIDDLETopOpinion]
In spite of what some of the pundits are saying, this election is not
AND
that the race is over are either partisan or foolish, or both.

Hugo Chavez pounds the election.
Toro, ‘9/27 [September 27, 2012, Francisco Toro is a Venezuelan journalist, political scientist and blogger, reported for the Washington Post, the New York Times and the Financial Times, and was Editor of English Language Content at VenEconomy, Venezuela's leading bilingual business magazine, doctoral candidate in Political Science at the University of Maastricht, in The Netherlands., “How Hugo Chavez Could Help Mitt Romney Win the Election” http://www.tnr.com/blog/plank/107802/will-hugo-chavez-help-mitt-romney-win-the-election]
With pundits rushing to file their Romney campaign obits ahead of the rush, the
AND
. Hugo Chávez might be about to hand him one on a plate.

Campaign half-truths outweigh the link – reinforces existing bias and changes minds.
CNN, '9/25 [September 25, 2012, Halimah Abdullah, Election Center, CNN"Out of context out of bounds? Not in 2012" http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/25/politics/campaign-context/index.html]
Washington (CNN) -- The presidential campaigns and their surrogates have gotten away with
AND
might just cause enough pain to register and influence them," Riggio said.

Romney winning—lead in independents—their polls are structurally biased
Cost, ‘9/26 [9/26/12, Jay Cost—Staff Writer for the Weekly Standard, “Morning Jay: Are the Polls Tilted Toward Obama?”, http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/morning-jay-are-polls-tilted-toward-obama_653067.html?page=3]
Republicans, by and large, are frustrated with recent polls of the presidential election
AND
him at or above 50 percent nationwide and in the key swing states.

====Greenhill Uniqueness==== 
Romney winning now – swing states and all major factors point toward victory – their evidence is biased by party polarization
Chambers 9-19 [9/19/12, Dean Chambers, an Internet journalist and commentator for the Arlington Conservative Examiner. “Mitt Romney likely win in presidential election shown by three key polls,” http://www.examiner.com/article/mitt-romney-likely-win-presidential-election-shown-by-three-key-polls]
Rasmussen Reports has released today, three key polls that show Mitt Romney's likely win
AND
described political views (liberal, conservative and moderate) for increased accuracy.

Oversampling means you reject all their evidence
Chambers 9-16 [9/16/12, Dean Chambers, an Internet journalist and commentator for the Arlington Conservative Examiner. “Mitt Romney holds large lead in UnSkewedPolls.com average of polls,” http://www.examiner.com/article/mitt-romney-holds-large-lead-unskewedpolls-com-average-of-polls]
While Mitt Romney enjoys a 47 percent to 46 percent lead over President Obama in
AND
for accuracy to gamble that way taking chances in projections of this sort.

Predictive ev shows Romney will win
The Week 9-18 (“5 signs that Mitt Romney can still win” The Week Publications, Inc. http://theweek.com/article/index/233477/5-signs-that-mitt-romney-can-still-win)
1. The polls aren't as bad as they seem Romney trails in the polls
AND
on track for the come-from-behind victory Republicans are expecting.

Romney Leading Independents
Heinze 9/19 (Christian Heinze, Blog Author for The Hill website, The Romney Conundrum: Winning Independents but Losing Overall, http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/christian-heinze/250247-the-romney-conundrum-winning-independents-but-losing-overall)
There are two competing factors at work for Mitt Romney among independents. ¶ One
AND
14. Meanwhile, Obama led overall by 3 in the CBS poll and

====1AR Climate Link Turn==== 
And, it outweighs the economy
Leiserowitz et al, ’12 [March 2012, Leiserowitz, A., Maibach, E., Roser-Renouf, C., & Hmielowski, J.D. Yale University and George Mason University. New Haven, CT: Yale Project on Climate Change Communication.
“Climate change in the American Mind: Public support for climate & energy policies in March 2012”,
http://environment.yale.edu/climate/files/Policy-Support-March-2012.pdf]
• 83 percent of Americans think that protecting the environment either improves economic growth and
AND
Republicans say it is more important to protect the environment than economic growth.

Pro-climate wins Independents for Obama
Drajem 9/30
Global Warming Links Democrats, Independents Isolating Romney
By Mark Drajem - Sep 30, 2012 8:00 PM ET
[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/global-warming-links-democrats-independents-isolating-romney.html]], Accessed 10/1/12 SB
Democrats and independent voters overwhelmingly accept the scientific evidence that human activity is warming the
AND
,” David Yarnold, president of the Audubon Society said in a statement.

====1AR Economy Link Turn==== 
Plan perceived as as saving money
Barcaskey, 11
RICHARD J. BARCASKEY, Executive Director, CAWP, Construction Association of Western Pennsylvania, Pitt Post Gazette, 7/18)
Neglecting our infrastructure will only force taxpayers to pay more later since it is more
AND
is both fiscally responsible and responsive to our nation's very significant transportation needs.
====AT Florida Link==== 
Structural factors mean Obama’s losing Florida now
Silver, 12 (Nate, 6/7/12,chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical models http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/06/07/election-forecast-obama-begins-with-tenuous-advantage/)
Taken by itself, however, Florida may be a less valuable prize than usual
AND
, and Mr. Obama probably has easier paths to 270 electoral votes.

Florida not key – dems won’t even try to compete
Cook, 12 (Charlie, The Cook Political Report, National Journal, 6/8, http://cookpolitical.com/node/12599)
Everyone who avidly follows politics has his or her own list of the true “
AND
about contesting Pennsylvania and about how long Democrats plan to compete for Florida.

Florida is not key to the election
Smith ‘11
Adam C. Smith, Tampa Times Political Editor, October 11, 2011 – http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/national/the-tricky-2012-math-for-president-barack-obama/1196157
There's good news for President Barack Obama as he sweeps into Florida today to raise
AND
, Obama overwhelmingly won the electoral vote, 365 to John McCain's 173.

Transportation investment massively popular in Florida– key to perception of effective economic policy
S.G.A. ’11 [February 2011, Smart Growth America, Florida Report,
http://www.smartgrowthamerica.org/documents/smart-transportation-ohio.pdf]
Like the rest of the country, Florida’s state budget and economy face significant challenges
AND
satisfied with a system that makes fair or poor use of taxpayer dollars.

====AT Warming Impact==== 
Obama Weak on Climate Change
Edmonton Journal 11
[Popular Washington newspaper]/Obama weak on climate change: Gore/23 June 2011

http://search.proquest.com/docview/873647764
Former U. S. vice-president and environmental activist Al Gore has accused
AND
turn, the disappointment from Copenhagen lowered momentum in the international climate talks.

====AT Iran Strike Impact==== 

The US will never strike Iran – Romney or anyone else
Smith 8/22/12 [August 22, 2012, Lee Smith is a fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, “Why Romney Won’t Strike Iran” [[http://www.tabletmag.com/jewish-news-and-politics/109873/why-romney-wont-strike-iran]]]
But let’s ask a practical question: How does Ryan’s selection affect Romney’s calculation in
AND
Rather, it seems to be preparing the Israeli public for an attack.


Netenyahu’s agenda demands strike before the November election.
Carmichael , 2k12 (Michael, Scholar at Duke University , political consultant, historian, author and broadcaster. “Netanyahu has Decided to Attack Iran before the U.S. Elections in November.” Promethean Post, http://prometheanpost.com/2012/06/netanyahu-has-decided-to-attack-iran-before-the-u-s-elections-in-november.html, June 23, 2012)
Senior Israeli officials now confirm that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has, “decided to
AND
1 that will come to an end in either late July or August:

No retaliation, war, or regional conflict
Bronner, ‘12 (Ethan, NYT staff reporter, 1/26/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/27/world/middleeast/israelis-see-irans-threats-of-retaliation-as-bluff.html?_r=1&hp]])
JERUSALEM — Israeli intelligence estimates, backed by academic studies, have cast doubt on
AND
Qaddafi or Saddam Hussein if they had a nuclear capability? No way.”
====AT Russia Relations Impact==== 
Collapse causes Russian nuclear first strike.
Nyquist, ‘8 [JR. Global Analyst and Author, "Origins of the Fourth World War", Financial Collapse and Destructive War, 9-19-2008, http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2008/0919.html]
If the ancient Romans destroyed Carthage without nuclear weapons, without modern instruments of war
AND
it. And the Americans are completely oblivious. They are utterly unprepared.

Election outcome not key to relations --- they will inevitably decline
Bovt 9-12 [9/12/12, Bovt is a political analyst, “Whether Obama or Romney, the Reset Is Dead,” http://www.themoscowtimes.com/opinion/article/whether-obama-or-romney-the-reset-is-dead/467947.html]
During every U.S. presidential election campaign, there is a debate in
AND
from both sides would itself be considered a major achievement in bilateral relations.

No extinction
Bostrom 07 PhD and Professor at Oxford University [Nick, “The Future of Humanity,” New Waves in Philosophy of Technology, eds. Jan-Kyrre Berg Olsen and Evan Selinger, Palgrave McMillan, 2007, p. 11]

Extinction risks constitute an especially severe subset of what could go badly wrong for humanity
AND
setback: a giant massacre for man, a small misstep for mankind.

====AT China Bashing Impact==== 
Romney wouldn’t bash china or label them a currency manipulator as president
Green, ’12 [February 8, 2012, Joshua Green is an American journalist who writes primarily on United States politics. He is currently senior national correspondent at Bloomberg Businessweek and a weekly columnist for the Boston Globe, “The Awkward Politics of Presidential China-Bashing”, http://www.businessweek.com/politics-policy/joshua-green-on-politics/archives/2012/02/the_awkward_politics_of_presidential_china-bashing.html]
Next week, President Obama is set to meet with Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping
AND
minor exceptions, few have tried —and those that did try failed.

Obama getting tougher on China- Romney is all talk for election year
Troy, 9/17 [9/17/12, Tom Troy is a politics writer for the Toledo Blade, “Obama will use Ohio appearances to challenge Romney's China trade policy”, http://www.toledoblade.com/Politics/2012/09/17/Obama-will-use-Ohio-appearances-to-challenge-Romney-s-China-trade-policy.html]
CINCINNATI -- President Obama announced a new trade challenge to China on auto parts manufacturing
AND
in companies that were pioneers in the practice of shipping American work overseas.

===2AC Artificial Intelligence DA=== 
Manufacturing is inevitable - India
Namazi, ’11 [08/09/11, Nargis Namazi, “Special Report: India's Manufacturing Industry”, http://www.businessreviewindia.in/business_leaders/special-report-indias-manufacturing-industry]
The manufacturing industry has taken off in India mainly because the country has all the
AND
; the country churns out nearly 400,000 graduate engineers every year.

Manufacturing is inevitable globally – developing countries
[[http://rki.kbs.co.kr/english/program/program_economyplus_detail.htm?No=3380|__http://rki.kbs.co.kr/english/program/program_economyplus_detail.htm?No=3380__]]
Interest in manufacturing is growing again. Since the 2008 global recession, formerly fast
AND
. And speaking of a manufacturing giant, Korea used to be one.


AI Impossible- Emotional disintegration.
Newhouse News Service 6-28-01
But how close is science to the fiction in this cautionary tale? When will
AND
are much more complex than anything we've tried to model in a computer."
===2AC Bibas’s DA about his Columbian Cocaine=== 
Even with increased food prices there’s no transition away from heroin
ABRASHI, 08 - an editor at the Europe Desk of The Associated Press, based in London (FISNIK, “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://afghandevnews.wordpress.com/2008/05/30/afghanistan-seeks-to-revive-farming-sector-addicted-to-opium/|Afghanistan seeks to revive farming sector addicted to opium]]</span>”, Associated Press, 5/30/08, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://afghandevnews.wordpress.com/category/agriculture/page/2/]]</span>)//GP//
//KABUL, Afghanistan – Afghanistan will ask international donors next month for $4 billion//
//AND//
//for 93 percent of world production, the U.N. says.//

//Even if food prices are high, opium prices are higher – there’s no tradeoff and increased Opium production is inevitable//
//Peter, 11 – staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor (Tom, “Afghanistan still world's top opium supplier, despite 10 years of US-led war”, The Christian Science Monitor, 10/11/11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2011/1011/Afghanistan-still-world-s-top-opium-supplier-despite-10-years-of-US-led-war]]</span>)//GP

Despite increased eradication efforts in Afghanistan, opium cultivation rose by 7 percent in 2011
AND
accounts for 9 percent of the country's GDP, according to UN estimates.
===2AC Buy America DA=== 
Non unique and turn – other instances of protectionism outweigh Buy American but Buy American is key to US domestic manufacturing
Paul ‘9 [7/21/09, Scott Paul is a writer for the Huffington Post. “American Protectionism is a myth,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/scott-paul/american-protectionism-is_b_242291.html]]]
Our nation faces rising unemployment, staggering debts, shrinking trade, and no sense
AND
places like China are not. Let's stop protectionism where it really festers.

Trade wars don’t escalate
Marshall ‘9 [1/21/09, Andrew Marshall is an Asia Political Risk Correspondent. Reuters, “Assault on free trade a key political risk,” http://uk.reuters.com/article/gc06/idUKTRE50K1H620090121?sp=true]
The key factors determining how far free trade will retreat will be the policies of
AND
markets that are highly dependent on exports," the Economist Intelligence Unit said.

American Steel solves extinction
Buyer ‘7 [Steve Buyer is a member of the House of Representatives before the international trade commission, “Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine”]
A robust steel industry is fundamental to the security and economic viability of this nation
AND
is fundamental to our ability to protect our very existence as a nation.

===2AC Clean Tech DA=== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Clean tech will fail now – massive increase in funding is needed</span>
Elkington ‘After they cut it’ 9/26
[September 26th, 2012. John, “US elections: ignoring climate agenda is a mistake,” Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/sustainable-business/sustainability-with-john-elkington/us-elections-presidential-campaign-climate-agenda?newsfeed=true]

With America seeing a growing collision between the fossil fuels and clean technology sector,
AND
well beyond the election, I know where my vote would be headed.


No clean tech investment now—offshoring, financing gaps, PTC
Loki 9/19 [September 19th, 2012. Reynard, Justmeans staff writer for Sustainable Finance and Corporate Social Responsibility, “With Uncertain Financial Future, Cloudy Skies Ahead for American Cleantech,” [[http://www.justmeans.com/With-Uncertain-Financial-Future-Cloudy-Skies-Ahead-for-American-Cleantech/56050.html]]]

Looking at 2011 VC investment figures, it seems like the cleantech industry in the
AND
), while ending much-needed subsidies for wind and solar.[17]

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">China leads the race and they will inevitably come on top</span>
Melanie Hart 8/24/2011 - policy Analyst for Chinese Energy and Climate Policy at the Center for American Progress (“China Eyes Competitive Edge in Renewable Energy,” Center for American Progress, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/08/china_energy_competitiveness.html/)
China’s State Council (the national cabinet) is currently reviewing a set of massive
AND
U.S. firms may find themselves shut out of this sector completely

US investment is failing too
Alex Morales 4/12/2012 – staff writer for Bloomberg.com (“Renewable-Energy Investment Plunges in Quarter to Three-Year Low,” Bloomberg, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-12/renewable-energy-investment-plunges-in-quarter-to-three-year-low.html]])
Global investment in clean energy dropped to its lowest since the depths of the financial
AND
and government research and development, which the research company reports on annually.

Adaptation doesn’t trade off with mitigation – side effects are positive and communication solves
Lowe, ‘9 [6/2009, Ashley Lowe, Josh Foster, Steve Winkleman are all senior members of the center for clean air policy. Since 1985, CCAP has been a recognized world leader in climate and air quality policy and is the only independent, non-profit think-tank working exclusively on those issues at the local, national and international levels. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., CCAP helps policymakers around the world to develop, promote and implement innovative, market-based solutions to major climate, air quality and energy problems that balance both environmental and economic interests. “Ask the Climate Question: Adapting to Climate Change Impacts in Urban Regions.” [[http://www.ccap.org/docs/resources/674/Urban_Climate_Adaptation-FINAL_CCAP%206-9-09.pdf]]]
Pursuing Synergies with Climate Mitigation for Resources and Support With limited resources to devote to
AND
that explain the importance of adaptation measures as part of climate change solutions.

Emissions reductions don’t stop warming – dirty energy is just exported
Marshall ’8-20 [8/20/12, Michael Marshall is a writer for the New Scientist, “Lowest US carbon emissions won’t slow climate change,” [[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn22196-lowest-us-carbon-emissions-wont-slow-climate-change.html|__http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn22196-lowest-us-carbon-emissions-wont-slow-climate-change.html__]]]
It looks like good news, but it's not. The US has recorded a
AND
install low-carbon infrastructure such as wind farms and nuclear power stations.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Even stopping emissions won’t stop warming</span>
AP ‘9 [9/24/09, The Associated Press. “Six Degree Temperature Rise by 2011 is Inevitable: UNEP,” [[http://www.speedy-fit.co.uk/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=168|__http://www.speedy-fit.co.uk/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=168__]]]
WASHINGTON - Earth's temperature is likely to jump six degrees between now and the end
AND
allows heat-trapping pollution to continue to spew unchecked into the atmosphere."



===2AC Coercion DA=== 
Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equality
Cummiskey ‘90
David, Professor of Philosophy, Bates, Kantian Consequentialism, Ethics 100.3, p 601-2, p 606, jstor
We must not obscure the issue by characterizing this type of case as the sacrifice
AND
moral consideration of conduct, one's own subjective concerns do not have overriding importance

Health Care thumps the DA- It raises/raised taxes
AP 8/9 (Connie Cass, Associated Press reporter writing about politics, polls, national issues and what it all means,” Health Care Law's Tax Hikes Are Coming: Who Pays?”, 8/9/12, [[http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/health-care-laws-tax-hikes-coming-pays-16969738#.UCnG4KEtDa8|http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/health-care-laws-tax-hikes-coming-pays-16969738#.UCnG4KEtDa8]],RE)
Who gets thumped by higher taxes in President Barack Obama's health care law? The
AND
, expected to total $1.7 billion in its first year.

Transportation is a public good – Their framework deprives people of basic services
ROBERT B. REICH, Chancellor’s Professor of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley, was Secretary of Labor in the Clinton administration, 1-4-12, [“The Decline of the Public Good,” http://robertreich.org/post/15331903866] E. Liu
What defines a society is a set of mutual benefits and duties embodied most visibly
AND
to do so find private alternatives. As public schools deteriorate, the up
per-middle class and wealthy send their kids to private ones. As public
AND
goods available to the very rich, supported by the rest of us.

Mobility is key to freedom – It’s the key internal link to all opportunities
Ted Balaker, policy analyst at Reason Foundation where he has authored studies on urban policy and workplace issues, His work has appeared in dozens of publications, 7-07, [“Why Mobility Matters to Personal life,” The Galvin Project to End Congestio, Reason, [[http://www.insideronline.org/summary.cfm?id=5497]]]
Americans rightly celebrate freedom of opportunity, but how far would it take us if
AND
cars, and planes—have allowed us to cover more ground faster.
===2AC Data Cooking DA=== 
Flyjberg is wrong – major methodological flaws
Osland and Strand, 10 - Institute of Transport Economics, Norway (Oddgeir and Arvid, “The Politics and Institutions of Project Approval - a Critical-Constructive Comment on the Theory of Strategic Misrepresentation”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, March, [[http://www.ejtir.tbm.tudelft.nl/issues/2010_01/pdf/2010_01_06.pdf]])//DH
The paragraph above includes several claims that Flyvbjerg does not have the necessary empirical data
AND
should be sufficient support for the thesis that misrepresentation is the major explanation.

The data cooking argument is exaggerated hype
Levy, 11 – mathematician who writes about urbanism and mass transit (Alon, “Cost Overruns: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Hate Bent Flyvbjerg,” 8/15, Pedestrian Observations (blog), [[http://pedestrianobservations.wordpress.com/2011/08/15/cost-overruns-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-hate-bent-flyvbjerg/)/DH|http://pedestrianobservations.wordpress.com/2011/08/15/cost-overruns-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-hate-bent-flyvbjerg/)//DH]]
Let me preface this post by saying I have nothing against Bent Flyvbjerg or his
AND
this paper is obscure, whereas his work on cost overruns is famous.
===2AC Federalism DA=== 
But in the context of transportation – MAP 21 solves
Associated Press 6/29 [June 6, 2012, Congress passes highway jobs bill, halts student loan rate hike, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/06/29/house-passes-highway-jobs-bill-halts-student-loan-rate-hike/]
Finding rare political accommodation on the cusp of a holiday recess, Congress passed legislation
AND
that would make it more likely passengers would survive a tour bus crash.

Courts check the impact
Nagel 1- Robert F. Nagel, Law Professor, University of Colorado, March 2001, ANNALS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, p. 53
In what appears to be an ambitious campaign to enhance the role of the states
AND
during the twentieth century has put in jeopardy fundamental principles of constitutional structure.

No risk of encroachment that’s substantial enough to alter federalism.
Young 03 [Ernest Young, Professor of Law at the University of Texas Texas Law Review published May 2003]
One of the privileges of being a junior faculty member is that senior colleagues often
AND
balance. Don't make it sound like you think the sky is falling."
===2AC Inflation DA=== 
No impact to inflation—Federal Reverse solves
Meyer 11-- an economic consultant, was a governor of the Federal Reserve from 1996 to 2002 (Lawrence H., 3/25, “Inflated Worries”, The New York Times, LexisNexis Academic) EL
There are two fundamental measures of inflation: overall (or ''headline'') inflation and
AND
maintain its credibility on inflation. You can take that to the bank.

No Impact – Hyperinflation temporary – it won’t collapse the economy
Lira, 2010- Freelance writer for Business Insider [Gonzalo, 8/26/2010, “Hyperinflation, Part II: What It Will Look Like”, Gonzalo Lira, accessed 6/21/12, http://gonzalolira.blogspot.com/2010/08/hyperinflation-part-ii-what-it-will.html]
What do these two true stories tell us? Simple: Buy when there’s blood
AND
Security Agency, the practical suspension of habeas corpus, etc., etc.

Overheating, inflation, and China’s stock market pose no threat – Problems will correct themselves and the impact is small.
The Economist, 9/29/07 “How fit is the panda? - China's economy”
So what immediate threats does China face? The biggest worry is that the economy
AND
, so a slump in share prices should not have much impact either.

China’s military is dependent on its economy – If the economy collapses they wouldn’t be able to fund a war.
New York Post 6/1/99 http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/chinaspy.htm

How are we to make China pay for its wanton act of aggression? The
AND
as a military institution. Weaken Beijing's economy and you weaken its military.
===2AC PGS DA=== 
DoD pursuing PGS now.
Homeland Security Newswire 4/26 (Homeland Security Newswire, leading e-information service, [http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2502952/posts] AD: 7/2/10)JM
The Obama administration is about to take up one of the more controversial schemes of
AND
one problem: the launches could very well start a Third World War.

PGS solves our failing deterrent.
Whitlock 4/8 (Craig, Washington Post staff writer, [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/07/AR2010040704920.html] AD: 6/28/10)JM
"Capabilities like an adaptive missile defense shield, conventional warheads with worldwide reach and
AND
bombers likewise can take many hours to fly into position for a strike.

No chance of miscalculation – tech solves.
Grossman 6 (Elaine, reporter with Global Security Newswire, April 8, [http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8&q=Elaine+M.+Grossman] AD: 6/28/10)JM
In defending the Pentagon decision to move ahead with the conventional Trident, some defense
AND
change the range to convert energy,” among other possibilities, he said.

===2AC Russia Food Prices DA=== 
US food exports solve price volatility
Pinstrup-Anderson, 11 - H.E. Babcock Professor of Food, Nutrition and Public Policy Professor of Applied Economics and Management, and J. Thomas Clark Professor of Entrepreneurship Cornell University, Ithaca, New York (Per, “ The Global Food and Nutrition Situation: Implications for the 2012 Farm Bill”, 5/26, Senate Testimony, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&sqi=2&ved=0CE4QFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ag.senate.gov%2Fdownload%2Fpinstrup-anderson-testimony&ei=03f8T6yqBKec2AXm6aV4&usg=AFQjCNGQuODALFwc5TTB1paNk7uTbNqbEQ)//DH
Second, large fluctuations in food production and dramatic food price volatility lead to increasing
AND
increases in export earnings illustrate the saying “doing well by doing good.”

Price volatility turns their disad – producers can’t count on sustained high prices – it cuts exports and investment
Johnson, 11 – senior editor at the Council on Foreign Relations (Toni, “Food Price Volatility and Insecurity”, 8/9, http://www.cfr.org/food-security/food-price-volatility-insecurity/p16662)DH
"[T]he crux of the food price challenge is about price volatility,
AND
wheat and wheat prices more than doubled, according to the World Bank.

Russia and the Ukraine are non-unique
Terazono 4/18—Financial Times online commodities editor. (Emiko, “Russian crop damage worries lift wheat”, The Financial Times, March 18th, 2012, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6a612434-a0f8-11e1-aac1-00144feabdc0.html#ixzz20G8H6QDr)/chm
Fears of crop damage in Russia due to dry weather supported wheat prices, with
AND
will become a lot looser towards the end of 2012,” he said.

Russia’s previous export ban means there’s zero investor confidence – their agricultural sector will inevitably collapse
Blas et al. 10- International Economy Editor at Expansion, Economics Reporter at Expansion, Commodities Correspondent at Financial Times (Javier, 8/05/10, Financial Times, “Russia grain export ban sparks price fears” http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/485c93ae-a06f-11df-a669-00144feabdc0.html#axzz203FXauvy)GP
The prices of everyday staples such as bread, flour and beer are set to
AND
would use its grain stores for distribution without auction to regions in need.

==Counterplans== 
===2AC Lopez CP=== 
Broad federal powers on commerce clause key to federal response to terrorism
Brook, ’05 [Rebruary 2005, Brain C. "Federalizing the First Responders to Acts of Terrorism Via the Militia Clauses" Duke Law Journal 54 Duke L.J. 999, Lexis Nexis]
The Supreme Court's Tenth Amendment 8 jurisprudence, construing the limits of the Commerce Clause
AND
by the states and therefore cannot be reached by the federal government. 11

Minimizing the impact key to prevent retaliation
CONLEY ‘3 (Lt Col Harry W. is chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, Headquarters Air Combat Command (ACC), Langley AFB, Virginia. Air & Space Power Journal – Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)
The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be
AND
be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made.”48

Escalates
IRC ‘1 (11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC, http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html)
Nuclear deterrence is a leading U.S. strategy to counter threats of
AND
Using nuclear weapons would make the U.S. a pariah state.

===2AC States CP=== 
Information distortion means the CP links to politics
Kiely, ‘12 [2/17/12, Eugene Kiely, Washington assignment editor USA today, “Did Obama ‘Approve’ Bridge Work for Chinese Firms?” http://www.factcheck.org/2012/02/did-obama-approve-bridge-work-for-chinese-firms/]
Who’s to blame, if that’s the right word, if the project ends up
AND
spending taxpayer money on Chinese firms to build U.S. bridges.

Coordination DA—CP fiats states do it within their borders, doesn’t fiat coordination and if they do its impossible—disagreements over jurisdictions and laws—that’s Smith—means they can’t solve the aff—interoperability is key
BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]
Addresses System as a Whole.
AND
flooding in adjacent areas with otherwise adequate protection.

The impact is the aff—lack of effective planning means CP fails
Paulse, ’11 [Caroline Paulse, Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “State Departments of Transportation: Working to Adapt to a Changing Climate”, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf, pp. 27-36]
Even in states that are addressing adaptation, obtaining reliable data is a challenge.
AND
also is needed on increasing storm intensities so that structures can be protected.

Technical Support DA—states lack adequate qualified data and planners for implementing the CP—fiat doesn’t solve because they can’t fiat the information infrastructure and systems the NOAA uses for federal policy planning—that’s Smith—federal interagency data coordination is key to effective implementation at the national level
BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]
Federal action on climate change impacts and adaptation is urgently needed and should be a
AND
our nation’s multimodal transportation systems, and the communities and businesses they serve.

====AT Interstate Compacts==== 
Compacts take an average of five years
CSG, ‘03 [2003, Council of State Governmens is a nonpartisan organization that brings state leaders together to share ideas, advocates the interests of the states, https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:XodKT3ZyjLgJ:ssl.csg.org/compactlaws/Introoverview.doc+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESiNcV1zWAJGONKIJRrz0EZd-4bv_JNCJ7NM1teMUO2WKPME-RUTlAulqZWzHTyKZGoIg3YqX-HlOJQ0-Vj4XT9r08BpXP5mjLY4LPjupwmMhIx7pKZFHL05vXXZj52XPp4V6ItK&sig=AHIEtbQVB7kbD5DGcl6ri0CQT1C4RBf8Vg]
Compacts are not always complicated, but they take time, especially if their subject
AND
eligible to participate. Just 13 months later, the compact became effective.


====AT P3’s Mechanism==== 

States won’t implement P3’s effectively
Puentes 11- Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute (Robert, "Moving Forward on Public-Private Partnerships: U.S. and International Experience with PPP Units." Brookings. December 2011. [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/12/08%20transportation%20istrate%20puentes/1208_transportation_istrate_puentes.pdf)/TD|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/12/08%20transportation%20istrate%20puentes/1208_transportation_istrate_puentes.pdf)//TD]]
First and foremost, there is little expertise with respect to PPPs in most state
AND
for any ¶ significant PPP road project to take place in Minnesota.¶ 98
===2AC Carbon Sequestration CP=== 
Leaks prevent solvency
Johnson et al. 10 – PhD in Atmospheric Science
Andrew Simms, policy director of New Economics Foundation, UK think tank, and head of NEF's Climate Change Programme, Dr. Victoria Johnson, researcher for the climate change and energy programme at NEF, MSc with distinction in Climate Change from the University of East Anglia and PhD in Atmospheric Physics at Imperial College, London and Peter Chowla, Policy and Advocacy Officer at the Bretton Woods Project. “Growth isn’t possible”. New Economics Foundation, January 25,2010. http://www.neweconomics.org/sites/neweconomics.org/files/Growth_Isnt_Possible.pdf
As journalist Jeff Goodell writes in his book Big Coal, tens of thousands of
AND
gas extracted is lost in the process of extraction, distribution and storage.

CO2 Removal technologies causes unpredictable damage, affects mostly marginalized peoples, and is not a long term solution
ETC Group ’10 [10/2010, The Action Group on Erosion, Technology and Concentration is an organization dedicated to addressing the socioeconomic and ecological issues surrounding new technologies that could have an impact on the world’s porrest and most vulnerable. It compromises of 10 staff and board members internationally. “Geopiracy: The Case against geoengineering,” [[https://www.cbd.int/doc/emerging-issues/etcgroup-geopiracy-2011-013-en.pdf]]]
Carbon dioxide removal and sequestration are geoengineering technologies that attempt to remove carbon dioxide from
AND
is no way to ensure safe and affordable long-term carbon sequestration.

Carbon capture and storage fails – too inefficient and risk of leakages
Klass and Wilson, 2008
[Alexandra B. Klass (Resident fellow of Minnesota Institute on the Environment, Solly Robins Distinguished Research Fellow, and Professor of Law, all at University of Minnesota) and Elizabeth J. Wilson (Associate Professor of Energy and Environmental Policy and Law at Humphrey School of Public Affairs at University of Minnesota, doctorate degree in Engineering and Public Policy from Carnegie Mellon), “Climate Chance and Carbon Sequestration: Assessing a liability regime for long-term storage of carbon dioxide”, Emory Law Journal, Vol. 58 2008, [[http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/elj/58/58.1/Klass_Wilson.pdf]]]
CCS, of course, is not free of risk. For CCS to have
AND
must be managed through site selection, operation, monitoring, and remediation.

Solvency Deficit – either takes thousands of years or produce more CO2 than sequestered
Kornell, 09 (Sam Kornell, “A Rock that helps out in a Hard Place,” Environment Science & Environment. 11/10/09 Mkoo 08/28/11 [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:7_bPtuiTFm0J:www.miller-mccune.com/science-environment/a-rock-that-helps-out-in-a-hard-place-10909/+peridotite+political+backlash&cd=4&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&source=www.google.com]]
The problem Krevor and other researchers must surmount is that ultramafic rock sequesters CO2 very
AND
so much energy to enact that they produced more CO2 than they sequestered.


===2AC China FDI CP=== 
Say no – pro investment policies deter FDI – alt causes outweigh and pro investment policies reduce the positive effects of FDI
Bhattacharya et al ‘4 [Dr. Debapriya Bhattacharya is an economist from the
AND
. “Foreign Direct Investment: High Risk, Low Reward for Development,
While it is true that ever more developing countries have tried to attract FDI by
AND
, the smaller are the benefits from FDI for society as a whole.

B. Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy
Atlas Collaboration ‘99
“Use of shall, should, may can,” http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html
'shall' describes something that is mandatory. If a requirement uses 'shall', then that
AND
to be stated anywhere (to say nothing of defining what 'thoroughly' means).

C. Its means associated with
Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])
its
Entry from World dictionary
Pronunciation:/ɪts/
possessive determiner
belonging to or associated with a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: turn the camera on its side
he chose the area for its atmosphere

Turn – FDI kills the economy in the long run
Economy Watch ’10 [Economy Watch is a prominent website for economic observations and studies. “Disadvantages of Foreign Direct Investment,: 6/30/10, [[http://www.economywatch.com/foreign-direct-investment/disadvantages.html]]]
One pertinent reason for this sentiment is that many developing countries, or at least
AND
labour market. Job matching stops being efficient and may even create unemployment.

Doesn’t solve manufacturing – Chinese investment uses Chinese jobs
WSJ 6/25/12 (Dinny Mcmahon and Robbie Whelan, “China in Talks With U.S. Home Builder State Bank in Talks to Provide Lennar $1.7 Billion for Two Long-Stalled Projects”, The Wall Street Journal, June 25, 2012, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304458604577489062449154168.html)
In recent years, Chinese state money—in large part provided by CDB and
AND
for its ability to put together complex financial deals, usually involving land.

===2AC Climate PIC=== 
Data on climate change is key
Paulse, ’11 [Caroline Paulse, Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “State Departments of Transportation: Working to Adapt to a Changing Climate”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]

Even in states that are addressing adaptation, obtaining reliable data is a challenge.
AND
also is needed on increasing storm intensities so that structures can be protected.

Uncertainty deters CP solvency – only an immediate certain investment can solve
Neumann and Price ’09 [June 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues. Jason C. Price is the principal and senior associate of Industrial Economics Incorporated. “Adapting to Climate Change: The Public Policy Response, Public infrastructure,” http://www.rff.org/rff/documents/RFF-Rpt-Adaptation-NeumannPrice.pdf]
Differences in planning horizons: Although climate scientists describe the future in terms of outcomes
AND
at the finest level of geographic detail because infrastructure is regional and local.
===2AC Cost Overruns CP=== 
Predictable funding solves cost overruns – the uncertainty of the cp kills solvency
Steenhoek, 12 – Executive Director, Soy Transportation Coalition (4/18/2012, Mike Steenhoek, “HOW RELIABILITY OF THE INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM IMPACTS ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS”, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1609]]</span>)
One of the arguments our ongoing analysis is
AND
I would be pleased to answer any questions. Read this original document at: http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2012-04-18-Steenhoek.pdf The United States Congress Document CONGDP0020120419e84i00098

B. Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy
Atlas Collaboration ‘99
“Use of shall, should, may can,” http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html
'shall' describes something that is mandatory. If a requirement uses 'shall', then that
AND
to be stated anywhere (to say nothing of defining what 'thoroughly' means).

C. And “resolved” doesn’t sever immediacy
Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9 (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
Resolve: “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.”

D. Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:
Merriam Webster ‘9 (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

Cost overruns are inevitable – government oversight empirically fails
Clemente 9 — Matthew Clemente, Researcher at FreedomWorks Foundation—a conservative non-profit think tank, 2009 (“How Reliable are the CBO Cost Estimates for Healthcare Reform?,” FreedomWorks Foundation Capitol Comment #432, December 14th, Available Online at http://www.freedomworks.org/files/capitol_comment_CBO_scores_PDF_2.pdf, Accessed 01-27-2012, p. 1-2)
When considering a piece of legislation, Congress often stresses the importance of the "
AND
price of reform may be as high as $14.4 trillion.

====1AR Perm do CP==== 

"Substantial" means considerable in amount or value
Words and Phrases 2 (Volume 40A) p. 453

N.D.Ala. 1957. The word “substantial” means considerable in amount, value, or the like, large, as a substantial gain

“Increase” means to become larger or greater in quantity
Encarta 6 – Encarta Online Dictionary. 2006. ("Increase" http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741)

in·crease [ in krss ]

transitive and intransitive verb (past and past participle in·creased, present participle in·creas·ing, 3rd person present singular in·creas·es)Definition: make or become larger or greater: to become, or make something become, larger in number, quantity, or degree

noun (plural in·creas·es)

. “Should” is distinct from “must”– should means achieving the objectives of a presumptively mandatory requirement, perm do the CP is acceptably within the range of “should”
GAO 8 [Government Accounting Office, Exposure Draft of Proposed Changes to the International Standards for theProfessional Practice of Internal Auditing, http://www.gao.gov/govaud/cl_iia080331.pdf]
The second sentence of the “must” definition used in the exposure draft instructions
AND
the procedure; if so, “should” is the appropriate word.

“Resolved” doesn’t require certainty
Webster’s 9 – Merriam Webster 2009
(http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)

# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\# Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): re·solved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

Colon is meaningless --- everything after it is what’s important
Webster’s 00 (Guide to Grammar and Writing, [[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]])

Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… If the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

Should doesn’t mean immediate
Dictionary.com – Copyright © 2010 – http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/should

should   /ʃʊd/ Show Spelled[shood] Show IPA –auxiliary verb
AND
to, intend to, or expect to: I shall go later.

====AT Cost Overruns NB==== 
Cost underestimation inevitable—economic reasons
Flyvbjerg et al 02 [Bent Flyvbjerg, Mette Skamris Holm, and Søren Buhl. Flyvbjerg is a professor of planning with the Department of Development and Plan- ning, Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s re- search program on transportation infra- structure planning and was twice a Visiting Fulbright Scholar to the U.S. His latest books are Rationality and Power (University of Chicago Press, 1998) and Making Social Science Matter (Cambridge University Press, 2001). He is currently working on a book about megaprojects and risk (Cambridge University Press). Holm is an assistant pro- fessor of planning with the Department of Development and Planning, Aalborg Uni- versity, and a research associate with the university’s research program on transpor- tation infrastructure planning. Her main in- terest is economic appraisal of projects. Buhl is an associate professor with the De- partment of Mathematics, Aalborg Univer- sity, and an associate statistician with the university’s research program on transpor- tation infrastructure planning. “Underestimating Costs in Public Works Projects: Error or Lie?” Journal of the American Planning Association, Vol. 68, No. 3, Summer 2002, http://www.industrializedcyclist.com/Flyvbjerg02.pdf, accessed 7/17/12]
Economic Explanations Economic explanations conceive of cost underesti- mation in terms of economic rationality
AND
is more im- portant than estimating costs correctly” (p. 280


====AT CCS NB==== 

No CCS now
Handwerk 12 – National Geographic Analyst
Brian, “Amid Economic Concerns, Carbon Capture Faces a Hazy Future,” http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/energy/2012/05/120522-carbon-capture-and-storage-economic-hurdles/
For a world dependent on fossil fuels, carbon capture and storage (CCS)
AND
this doesn't signal significant growth of the CCS industry in the near future."


Leaks prevent solvency
Johnson et al. 10 – PhD in Atmospheric Science
Andrew Simms, policy director of New Economics Foundation, UK think tank, and head of NEF's Climate Change Programme, Dr. Victoria Johnson, researcher for the climate change and energy programme at NEF, MSc with distinction in Climate Change from the University of East Anglia and PhD in Atmospheric Physics at Imperial College, London and Peter Chowla, Policy and Advocacy Officer at the Bretton Woods Project. “Growth isn’t possible”. New Economics Foundation, January 25,2010. http://www.neweconomics.org/sites/neweconomics.org/files/Growth_Isnt_Possible.pdf
As journalist Jeff Goodell writes in his book Big Coal, tens of thousands of
AND
gas extracted is lost in the process of extraction, distribution and storage.

Even stopping emissions won’t stop warming
AP ‘9 [9/24/09, The Associated Press. “Six Degree Temperature Rise by 2011 is Inevitable: UNEP,” <span class="Underline">[[http://www.speedy-fit.co.uk/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=168]]</span>]
WASHINGTON - Earth's temperature is likely to jump six degrees between now and the end
AND
allows heat-trapping pollution to continue to spew unchecked into the atmosphere."
===2AC EB Visas CP=== 
B. Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy
Atlas Collaboration ‘99
“Use of shall, should, may can,” http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html
'shall' describes something that is mandatory. If a requirement uses 'shall', then that
AND
to be stated anywhere (to say nothing of defining what 'thoroughly' means).

C. Its means associated with
Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])
its
Entry from World dictionary
Pronunciation:/ɪts/
possessive determiner
belonging to or associated with a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: turn the camera on its side
he chose the area for its atmosphere


Not enough immigrants to pay for it
Evan Nolan, JD Candidate Georgetown University Law Center, Fall 2009, “Picking Up After The Baby Boomers: Can Immigrants Carry The Load?,” 24 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 77, Lexis
The general suggestion recently put forth by social scientists promotes liberalization of immigration laws as
AND
is likely little support for waiving many of these self-imposed restrictions.

Can’t solve backlogs – 8 year delay
EAH Immigration, 6-17-2010, “Visa Bulletin for July,” http://eahimmigrationblog.com/?p=46
The U.S. Department of State’s (DOS) Visa Bulletin for July
AND
cut-off date for religious worker immigrant visas may appear in September.

Expanding EB visa’s is enormously unpopular- democrats can’t find single republican senator to support it
Chichoni, Lawyer at EBG, 10
(4/23, A controversial immigration reform bill could help the nanotechnology industry, http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=30722a03-770c-4257-895f-3c9907d48966)
Senators Schumer and Graham's comprehensive immigration reform bill provides some hope by proposing to allow
AND
it does not seem to have the support necessary to ensure its passage.


Turn STEM

Expanding visas creates the perception of poor future opportunities – deters students from going into STEM fields
Harold Salzman, PHD, Senior Research Associate, the Urban Institute, 11-6-2007, “Globalization of R&D and Innovation: Implications for U.S. STEM Workforce and Policy,” Submitted to the Subcommittee on Technology and Innovation of the Committee on Science and Technology, http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/901129_salzman_stem_workforce.pdf
If, as we argue, there is a sufficient potential workforce and any shortages
AND
, affect the career choices of current workers and future generations as well.

Dependence on foreign workers guarantees economic failure
Edward Gordon 12-08-2009, President of Imperial Consulting Corporation, Unemployment numbers don’t tell the real jobs crisis story,” Employee Benefit News, http://ebn.benefitnews.com/news/unemployment-numbers-dont-tell-the-real-jobs-crisis-story-2682607-1.html)
Over the past several decades, the United States has muddled through these skilled people
AND
begin equipping more Americans with the education and skills to fill these jobs

===2AC Executive Order CP=== 
XOs are net worse for political capital and prez powers
Scheir 2011
Steven E., Professor of Political Science at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota The Contemporary Presidency: The Presidential Authority Problem and the Political Power Trap Presidential Studies Quarterly [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/doi/10.1111/psq.2011.41.issue-4/issuetoc|Volume 41, Issue 4, ]]pages 793–808, December 2011
So the “presidential authority problem” has several parts. Authority among elites faces
AND
the authority is not. So why not use the power—via unilat
ral decisions, signing statements and executive orders—while you have it, if
AND
the central political challenge confronted by modern presidents, and now by Obama. e
B. The government’s not monolithic

Chicago Manual No Date (University of Chicago Manual of Style, “Capitalization, Titles”,[[http://web.archive.org/web/20061125021652/]][[http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/CMS_FAQ/CapitalizationTitles/CapitalizationTitles29.html]])
A. The government of the United States is not a single official entity. Nor is it when it is referred to as the federal government or the U.S. government or the U.S. federal government. It’s just a government, which, like those in all countries, has some official bodies that act and operate in the name of government: the Congress, the Senate, the Department of State, etc.

B. “Resolved” isn’t in the resolution

DOD 6 – US Department of Defense (6/28, The Colon, [[http://64.233.167.104/search?q=cache:CRkgc8Pi1TsJ:www.dod.state.hi.us/HIARNG/298rti/298rti/l230is_app_d.pdf]],
The colon introduces the following: [continues] g. A formal resolution, after the word "resolved:" Resolved: (colon) That this council petition the mayor.

C. ‘The’ means unique, as in there is one USFG
Merriam-Webster's Online Collegiate Dictionary 8[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary]
b -- used as a function word to indicate that a following noun or noun equivalent is a unique or a particular member of its class<the President><the Lord>

Solvency Deficit - Congressional Funding Key
Howell 2005 William G. (Professor at Harvard University) September “Unilateral Powers: A Brief Overview,” Presidential Studies Quarterly
If it has one, the power to appropriate money for unilaterally created programs is
AND
orders written on paper may not translate into action taken on the ground.

Prez power kills democracy model worldwide
Biskupic, ’04 (Joan, USA Today, July 2, p. 4A, l/n)
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States' reputation as a guarantor of
AND
States has an "interest in demonstrating to the world how democracy works."

Democracy solves every impact
Diamond Hoover Institute Senior Fellow ‘95 (Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution senior fellow, co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, December 1995, A Report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” [[http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm]])
OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-
AND
their own citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments.

.
===2AC Guidelines CP=== 
Certainty is key – organizational behavior means that agencies won’t adapt or adapt reactively
Repetto ‘8 [Fall 2008, Robert Repetto is a Professor in the Practice of Economics in the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “The Climate Crisis and the Adaptation Myth,” http://environment.research.yale.edu/documents/downloads/v-z/WorkingPaper13.pdf]
Organizations are inherently sluggish in responding to new conditions. In organizational decision-making
AND
, it will be seen that all these obstacles have played their roles.

Adaptation must be immediate and certain – reactive adaptation is a cost killer and results in destruction of goods
Repetto ‘8 [Fall 2008, Robert Repetto is a Professor in the Practice of Economics in the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “The Climate Crisis and the Adaptation Myth,” http://environment.research.yale.edu/documents/downloads/v-z/WorkingPaper13.pdf]
However, saying that the U.S. can adapt does not imply that
AND
of climate change and the less effective reactive adaptation is likely to be.

===2AC Health Impact Statement CP=== 
Massive delays --- their evidence’s based on outdated wishful thinking
Daniel Selmi 5, Prof Law at Loyola, 35 Envtl. L. 415, lexis
1. Time as a False Indicator
An ongoing point of contention in the literature is
AND
parties must expect that negotiations will lengthen substantially.

Every citizen’s a stakeholder --- notification consumes resources
Alejandro Camacho 5, Associate Prof of Law at Notre Dame, 24 Stan. Envtl. L.J. 269, lexis
Though achieving collaboration and consensus is certainly possible in administrative regulatory contexts, the prospect
AND
, [*324] making agreement formation and implementation that much more difficult.


Uncertainty, no immediate benefits, and companies won’t incur the costs
Tompkins and Eakin, ’12 [February 2012, Emma L. Tompkins works at the School of Geography & Environment, University of Southampton and Hallie Eakin is at the School of Sustainability, Arizona State University, “Managing private and public adaptation to climate change”, Global Environmental Change, Volume 22, Issue 1, Pages 3-11]
Climate change adaptation as an explicit policy process is a new area of intervention and
AND
these three characteristics make the delivery of this intangible public good extremely challenging.

===2AC Microbubbles CP=== 
CP links to politics – majority of Americans think it will fail
Borick and Rabe ’12 [5/30/2012, Christopher Borick is an Associate Professor and Director of the Muhlenbeg College Institute of Public Opinion. Barry G. Rabe is aBarry G. Rabe is a nonresident senior fellow in Governance Studies at The Brookings Institution and the J. Ira and Nikki Harris Family Professor at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. “Americans Cool on Geoengineering Approaches to Climate Change” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/30%20geo%20engineering%20rabe%20borick/30%20geo%20engineering%20rabe%20borick.pdf]]]
Geoengineering Geoengineering options are increasingly being examined as a way to address global warming.
AND
26% Somewhat Disagree 25% Strongly Disagree 35% Not Sure 10%

Conservative opposition to geoengineering
Terra Daily ’11 (Staff Writers, “ Survey finds public support for geoengineering research,” October 26th, http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Survey_finds_public_support_for_geoengineering_research_999.html)
"We found that geoengineering divides people along unusual lines. Support for geoengineering is
AND
months in order to explore and discuss the social aspects associated with geoengineering.

CP does more harm than good- multiple warrants
Robock, ’10 [Novemeber 5 2010, Alan Robock is a professor at Department of Environmental Sciences in Rutgers University, Bubble, bubble, toil and trouble, An editorial comment[[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/Bubble2.pdf]]]
Seitz (2011) has proposed using micron-size bubbles in water to increase
AND
, with potential benefits, but also potential for use as a weapon?

Geoengineering is perceived as a weapon – leads to war
Schneider 10 – Professor of Climatology @ Stanford
Stephen Schneider, Professor of Climatology @ Stanford, “Geo-engineering: could we or should we make it work?,” pg. 7
We went on to argue that some people could even consider use of climate modification
AND
probably leave reasonable doubts in the public's mind...(Keilogg & Schneider 1974)

CP would have to cover large area to solve- if so kills Biodiversity
CBD, ’12 [January 2012, Convention on Biodiversity is a global agreement addressing all aspects of biological diversity: genetic resources, species, and ecosystems, “Impacts of Climate Related Geo-engineering on Biological Diversity”,[[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=6&cad=rja&ved=0CEAQFjAF&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbd.int%2Fclimate%2Fdoc%2Fdraft-study-impacts-geoengineering-second-review-en.doc&ei=YH9fUMeFBe2-0QHr5YD4Ag&usg=AFQjCNHsdSSOpqZzKaLmzbp9ZzTnIJSZVQ]]]
The specific impacts of surface albedo enhancement on biodiversity and ecosystem services, over and
AND
possible impacts on currents and further knock-on impacts on local ecosystems.

Ocean destruction causes extinction.
Craig, ‘3 [Associate professor of law, Indiana University School of Law, Indianapolis, IN., 2003 (Robin Kundis, "Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection?" 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Winter]
The world's oceans contain many resources and provide many services that humans consider valuable.
AND
biodiversity can be traced not to natural events but to inadequate policies. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?tokenKey=rsh-20.421067.4895423235&target=results_DocumentContent&reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1221341403899&returnToKey=20_T4555594133&parent=docview#n24|n24]]

CP causes ozone depletion and food scarcity
Vivian Warkentin, VP Agriculture Defense Coalition, 2-4-2010, “Solar Radiation Management,” Berkeley Daily Planet, http://www.berkeleydailyplanet.com/issue/2010-02-04/article/34608?headline=Solar-Radiation-Management-Dr.-Strangelove-s-Fix-for-Global-Warming
In his testimony before Congress, Professor Robock lists seventeen risks that apparently he and
AND
would be less than the costs associated with the potential damages of geoengineering.

Food scarcity leads to global war
Calvin, ’98-- a professor at the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle, is the author of 16 popular books on science, mostly about brains, evolution, and climate change (William H., A Brain for All Seasons: Human Evolution and Abrupt Climate Chang)
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields would
AND
longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

Ozone loss leads to extinction
Smith and Daniel 99 (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]] )
The ozone layer is critical to life on Earth because it absorbs biologically damaging
AND
aquatic ecosystems also may occur (Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).

===2AC Private Sector CP=== 
Uncertainty, no immediate benefits, and companies won’t incur the costs
Tompkins and Eakin, ’12 [February 2012, Emma L. Tompkins works at the School of Geography & Environment, University of Southampton and Hallie Eakin is at the School of Sustainability, Arizona State University, “Managing private and public adaptation to climate change”, Global Environmental Change, Volume 22, Issue 1, Pages 3-11]
Climate change adaptation as an explicit policy process is a new area of intervention and
AND
these three characteristics make the delivery of this intangible public good extremely challenging.

b. Profit motive irrelevant—lack of awareness, lack of data, uncertainty in planning, expectations of government action, competing priorities, short term thinking, and functional constraints mean adaptation won’t happen—star this card
PWC, ’10 [December 2010, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in collaboration with The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Nairobi Work Programme and with support from UK Department for International Development World Business Council for Sustainable Development, “Business leadership on climate change adaptation”, http://www.pwcwebcast.co.uk/encouraging-engagement-and-action-full-report.pdf]
Why is business under-engaged on managing the risks and maximising the opportunities?
AND
resilience of their operations, whereas those with weaker buying powers may not.

===2AC P3 Unit CP=== 
B. Should is not immediate or certain
GAO 8 [Government Accounting Office, Exposure Draft of Proposed Changes to the International Standards for theProfessional Practice of Internal Auditing, http://www.gao.gov/govaud/cl_iia080331.pdf]
The second sentence of the “must” definition used in the exposure draft instructions
AND
the procedure; if so, “should” is the appropriate word.

C. Its means associated with
Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])
its
Entry from World dictionary
Pronunciation:/ɪts/
possessive determiner
belonging to or associated with a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: turn the camera on its side
he chose the area for its atmosphere

D. Investment includes public private partnerships.
Heller 9 (Peter S., Former Deputy Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department – International Monetary Fund and Currently Senior Adjunct Professor of International Economics – Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at The Johns Hopkins University, “Public Investment: Vital for Growth and Renewal, But Should it be a Countercyclical Weapon?”, http://www.unctad.org/en/Docs/webdiae20091_en.pdf)
While any capital outlay of a government would be defined as “public investment”
AND
leads to underspending on goods vital for the realization of public policy objectives.

Private companies won’t get on board
a. Uncertainty, no immediate benefits, and companies won’t incur the costs
Tompkins and Eakin, ’12 [February 2012, Emma L. Tompkins works at the School of Geography & Environment, University of Southampton and Hallie Eakin is at the School of Sustainability, Arizona State University, “Managing private and public adaptation to climate change”, Global Environmental Change, Volume 22, Issue 1, Pages 3-11]
Climate change adaptation as an explicit policy process is a new area of intervention and
AND
these three characteristics make the delivery of this intangible public good extremely challenging.

b. Profit motive irrelevant—lack of awareness, lack of data, uncertainty in planning, expectations of government action, competing priorities, short term thinking, and functional constraints mean adaptation won’t happen—star this card
PWC, ’10 [December 2010, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in collaboration with The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Nairobi Work Programme and with support from UK Department for International Development World Business Council for Sustainable Development, “Business leadership on climate change adaptation”, http://www.pwcwebcast.co.uk/encouraging-engagement-and-action-full-report.pdf]
Why is business under-engaged on managing the risks and maximising the opportunities?
AND
resilience of their operations, whereas those with weaker buying powers may not.

Federal Government data is key – multi agency information structures are key to effective adaptation
BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, [[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]]]
Federal action on climate change impacts and adaptation is urgently needed and should be a
AND
our nation’s multimodal transportation systems, and the communities and businesses they serve.

The impact is the aff—lack of effective planning means CP fails
Paulse, ’11 [Caroline Paulse, Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “State Departments of Transportation: Working to Adapt to a Changing Climate”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]

Even in states that are addressing adaptation, obtaining reliable data is a challenge.
AND
also is needed on increasing storm intensities so that structures can be protected.

====AT Cost Overruns NB==== 

Conflicts of interest make cost effectiveness impossible
CBO 12- Congressional Budget Office ("Using Public-Private Partnerships to Carry Out Highway Projects." CBO. 1/9/12www.cbo.gov/publication/42685)//TD
A drawback of a partnership arrangement for the public sector, however, can be
AND
years—or even decades—earlier and still protect the public’s interests.

===2AC Referendum CP=== 
Public doesn’t participate and lack of expert participation undermines the aff
Lindstrom and Nie 97 – Research Consultants for the Arizona Department of Transportation
Matthew and Martin, “HOW DO YOU COLLECT AND USE PUBLIC INFORMATION IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PLANS AND PROGRAMS?,” ADOT, REPORT NUMBER: FHWA-AZ97-452, http://www.azdot.gov/TPD/ATRC/publications/project_reports/PDF/AZ452.pdf
Daniel Barber (1981) classifies the case against citizen participation in four main points
AND
community resources is given to the interests which have exerted the most influence.

Expert participation is critical – only the federal government can make the necessary decisions with the right data
BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, [[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]]]
Federal action on climate change impacts and adaptation is urgently needed and should be a
AND
our nation’s multimodal transportation systems, and the communities and businesses they serve.

The impact is the aff—lack of effective planning means CP fails
Paulse, ’11 [Caroline Paulse, Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “State Departments of Transportation: Working to Adapt to a Changing Climate”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]
Even in states that are addressing adaptation, obtaining reliable data is a challenge.
AND
also is needed on increasing storm intensities so that structures can be protected.


B. Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy
Atlas Collaboration ‘99
“Use of shall, should, may can,” http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html
'shall' describes something that is mandatory. If a requirement uses 'shall', then that
AND
to be stated anywhere (to say nothing of defining what 'thoroughly' means).

C. And “resolved” doesn’t sever immediacy
Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9 (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
Resolve: “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.”

D. Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:
Merriam Webster ‘9 (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

Governments will circumvent the net benefit
Qvortrup 00 (Mads, Professor of Political Science, University of Copenhagen; “Is Referendum A Constitutional Safeguard?”http://www.iandrinstitute.org/New%20IRI%20Website%20Info/I&R%20Research%20and%20History/I&R%20Studies/Qvortrup%20-%20Is%20the%20Referendum%20a%20Constitutional%20Safeguard%20IRI.pdf)
Yet we have no guarantee that the referendum does provide the voters with a check
AND
will tend to use it only when they expect to win”4.

===2AC SBMD CP=== 
Plan sparks asymmetric balancing causing global space weaponization, accidental nuclear wars and proliferation, debris that collapses the economy and space commerce – it also kills US-Sino relations, US-Russian relations
Krepon, ’04 [2004, Michael Krepon is a researcher for Stimson Center in Space Security and South Asia Programs “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf, SM]
If Rumsfeld’s plans to weaponize space are carried to fruition, America’s armed forces,
AND
as by trailing expensive US space weapons and satellites with cheap space mines.

Weaponizing space devastates US influence and legitimacy – collapses leadership and outweighs hard power
Brown, ‘09 [Trevor Brown has a BA, Indiana University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal, Spring 2009, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/121733/.../Section+11.pdf, SM]

Russia and China believe that they must respond to this strategic challenge by taking measures
AND
difficult politically for the Air Force to make plans to offer such protection.

Space weapons will fail – can’t intercept
Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)

Basing weapons in orbit also pre­sents difficult technical obstacles. They would be just as
AND
time, keeping one of them constantly in range would require many weapons.

TURN – ASYMMETRIC BALANCING
A. Plan causes it – neutralizes the advantage of missile defense
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 7 - Independent policy research center (5/16, “China’s Nuclear Arms Posture Examined in New Book from the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,” http://www.amacad.org/news/nuclear_china.aspx)
Yet United States military policy to develop and deploy space-based missile defense systems
AND
than to space-based weapons and defense systems that undermine China’s security.

B. Faster and more probable internal link to their impact – causes miscalculation
Martel and Yoshihara, ‘3 (William C., professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College in Rhode Island, Toshi, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts, “Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race,” http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html#authbio1)
If leaders in Beijing and Washington were to position themselves to preempt each other,
AND
given that many states depend on satellites for their economic well-being.

===2AC Sunsets CP=== 
Lead to uncertainty—cant solve
Dewey 11 – JD, Editor of the Boston College Law Review

Erin, “SUNDOWN AND YOU BETTER TAKE CARE: WHY SUNSET PROVISIONS HARM THE RENEWABLE ENERGY INDUSTRY AND VIOLATE TAX PRINCIPLES,” BC Law Review, Lexis
Many scholars argue that sunset provisions, and the implicit risk of expiration that they
AND
motivating factor for the investment activity, and the credit becomes a windfall.

Uncertainty in the impacts inhibit the incentive for the private sector to adapt
Agrawala et a. ’11 [11/30/11, Shardul Agrawala. “Private Sector Engagement in Adaptation to Climate Change: Approaches to Managing Climate Risks,” OECD Environment Working Papers, No. 39 OECD Publishing,
Several common factors affect companies’ incentives to adapt to climate change. Uncertainties around climate
AND
low uncertainty, such as increasing temperatures and increasing frequency of heat waves.

Permutation do the CP
A. “Should” is distinct from “must”– should means achieving the objectives of a presumptively mandatory requirement, perm do the CP is acceptably within the range of “should”
GAO 8 [Government Accounting Office, Exposure Draft of Proposed Changes to the International Standards for theProfessional Practice of Internal Auditing, http://www.gao.gov/govaud/cl_iia080331.pdf]
The second sentence of the “must” definition used in the exposure draft instructions
AND
the procedure; if so, “should” is the appropriate word.

C. And “resolved” doesn’t sever immediacy
Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9 (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
Resolve: “To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.”

D. Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:
Merriam Webster ‘9 (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

Empirically sunsets fail
Dewey 11 – JD, Editor of the Boston College Law Review

Erin, “SUNDOWN AND YOU BETTER TAKE CARE: WHY SUNSET PROVISIONS HARM THE RENEWABLE ENERGY INDUSTRY AND VIOLATE TAX PRINCIPLES,” BC Law Review, Lexis
Over the past forty years Congress has increasingly used sunset provisions, particularly in tax
AND
the tax code on the federal level, rather than for agency legislation.

Focus on process undermines real world education
Clark et al 07 Director of Maritime Security Projects at the California Maritime Academy
(Bruce G., Dr. Donna J. Nincic, Associate Professor and Chair of Global and Maritime Studies at the The California Maritime Academy, and Nevin Fidler, Intelligence Coordinator of the Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning at the The California Maritime Academy, “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?”, October, Product of the Port and Maritime Security Working Group, U.S. Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation, prepared for by THE CALIFORNIA MARITIME ACADEMY, [[http://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=24892|www.hsdl.org/?view&did=24892]] SW)

10. The regulatory enforcement regimen
AND
"real security" over the long term.

===2AC Sunshades CP=== 
Turn – CP increases warming and causes massive debris
Vergano ’11 [2/25/11, Dan Vergano is a science reporter. “Can Geo-engineering put the freeze on global warming” [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/environment/2011-02-25-geoengineering25_CV_N.htm]]]
•Space mirrors. Hundreds of thousands of thin reflective yard-long disks fired
AND
the air, which may affect marine life underlying the ocean food web.

Debris destroys the CP and makes space unusable
Taylor, 7 – Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command; B.A, Berry College; J.D. University of Georgia; LL.M. (Air and Space Law), McGill University (Michael W. “Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth’s Orbital Debris Problem,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 2007, Gale)
<Estimates of the future levels of risk are even more speculative than estimates of
AND
increase the costs by requiring more mitigation measures or through increased insurance premiums.

Also causes US Russia accidental war
Lewis 4 (Jeffrey, fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM). Graduaged magma cum laude from Augustana College with degrees in Philosophy and Political Science “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios” Center for Defense Information. July, 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)
This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space
AND
is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.

When sunshades are hit – rapid warming causes extinction
Olson ’11 [11/2011, Robert L. Olson is a Senior Fellow at the Institute for Alternative Futures. He was previously the Institute’s Director of Research and a member of its founding Board of Directors. Much of his recent work has focused on the environmental future, including projects with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to bring greater foresight into the Agency’s planning. He is a member of the National Advisory Council for Environmental Technology and Policy (NACETP) and the primary author of the NACEPT report The Environmental Future. He is the author of Exploring the Future, editor of Mending the Earth and co-editor with David Rejeski of Environmentalism and the Technologies of Tomorrow. Formerly he served as a consultant to the Director and a Project Director at the Office of Technology Assessment of the U.S. Congress. He was for several years a Fellow of the Center for Cooperative Global Development at the American University and has been a Resident Fellow at the University of Illinois Center for Advanced Study. “Geoengineering for Decision Makers,” Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, [[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/Geoengineering_for_Decision_Makers_0.pdf]]]
This concern stems directly from the possibility that of the prospect of successful SRM geoengineering
AND
to transition to Carbon free energy sources, would pose much lower risks.
===2AC Word PIC=== 
B. Our discourse/ontology doesn’t affect politics
Tuathail, 96
(Tuathail, Associate Professor of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, ’96 Gearoid, July-September, “The patterned mess of history and the writing of critical geopolitics: a reply to Dalby” Critical Geopolitics, Vol 15 Issue 6-7, p 661-665, Science Direct)
While theoretical debates at academic conferences are important to academics, the discourse and concerns
AND
needs to always be open to the patterned mess that is human history.

Sanitizing language backfires—renaming neutralizes language, reifying the harm.
Schram, 95 [Sanford F. Schram, Associate Professor of Political Science at
AND
University of Minnesota Press, ISBN 0816625778, p. 24-25]
Renaming not only loses credibility but also corrupts the terms used. This danger is
AND
to include people with such attributes in all avenues of contemporary life.24

Censorship Turn trades off with substantive focus of political issues
Brown ‘1(Professor Political Science, Cal-Berkeley, 2K1 Wendy, Politics Out of History, pg. 35-37)
“Speech codes kill critique,”Henry Louis Gates remarked in a 1993 essay on
AND
what they once grasped as a contingent effect of historically specific social powers.

Impact is extinction
Boggs 1997(Carl, Professor of Political Sience – National University, Theory & Society 26, December, p. 773-4)
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series
AND
of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75
==Kritiks== 

===2AC Framework=== 
Action oriented civic participation requires youth education about transportation policy—
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007). Educating young
AND
with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

Changing transportation policy requires a more active citizenry
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

====AT Kappeler==== 
Turn—Kappeler’s critique crushes individual agency
Gelber 95 [Kath Gelber, Lecturer in Australian Politics and Human Rights at the University of New South Wales, 1995, “The Will To Oversimplify,” Green Left Weekly, Issue 198, August 16, Available Online at http://www.greenleft.org.au/back/1995/198/198p26b.htm]
The Will to Violence presents a powerful and one-sided critique of the forces
AND
ourselves”. A worthy endeavour, but hardly sufficient to change the world.

===2AC Adaptation K=== 
Framework – debate is a policy simulation – view the laternative as a CP = The 1AC’s epistemological/methodological presentation is good—risk assessment and worst case scenario planning is necessary for best policymaking in the context of climate adaptation and avoids serial policy failure—the alternative to this is decisions based on individual impulses of anxiety—education on these issues is specifically key to galvanize political support
Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
In the context of climate adaptation, assessing risk means identifying specific (climaterelated)
AND
Fischhoff, 1996; NRC, 1996b; Patt and Dessai, 2005).

Treating the environment as a security issue challenges realist assumptions and solves national security – turns their impact
Barnett ‘1 [Jon, Research Council Fellow In The School Of Social And Environmental Enquiry At The University Of Melbourne, The Meaning Of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics And Policy In The New Security Era, Chapter 9, 137-41]
The question of whether it is valid to understand environmental problems as security problems recurs
AND
real failure that is likely to ensue from the project of environmental security.

Under this order, global violence is decreasing
Steven Pinker, 9-24-2011, Harvard College Professor of Psychology at Harvard University, “Violence Vanquished,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html
On the day this article appears, you will read about a shocking act of
AND
impetus to cherish the forces of civilization and enlightenment that made it possible.

===2AC Bataille K=== 
Even if there’s no objective reason to preserve life there is unique value in fulfilling the narrative shape of human life – truncating life before it can be fully lived is uniquely bad.
James Lenman, Lecturer in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Glasgow, 2002 (“On Becoming Extinct," Pacific Philosophical Quarterly, Volume 83, p. 253-254)
Everybody dies. Perhaps, though there are grounds for doubt1, this is a
AND
this progress in ways it makes great sense for us not to welcome.

Death may be inevitable but dying from extreme suffering should be rejected
Edelglass ‘6 [William Edelglass works for the Department of Philosophy, Colby College in Maine, “Levinas on Suffering and Compassion,” SpringerLink, pdf]
According to Levinas's phenomenology, mild discomfort can be mastered by consciousness. But,
AND
consider suffering to be evil only when it is both severe and unjustified.

Fear of death is critical to activism
Sandman and Valenti, 86 [Peter M. Sandman, Professor of Human Ecology at Rutgers University, and JoAnn M. Valenti, Associate Chair of the Department of Communications at Brigham Young University, 1986, “Scared stiff — or scared into action,” Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, January, Available Online at http://www.psandman.com/articles/scarstif.htm, Accessed 10-16-2004]
“The main obstacle to action,” writes Frank, “is neither apathy
AND
measure their efficacy. Constructing it should be a top-priority task.
===2AC Biopower K=== 
Economic ties and democracy prevent genocide
O’Kane 97[“Modernity, the Holocaust, and politics”, Economy and Society, February, ebsco]
Chosen policies cannot be relegated to the position of immediate condition (Nazis in power
AND
and common attributes of modernity which stand in the way of modern genocides.

Empirics disprove the impact – increasing biopower is checking totalitarianism
Edward Ross, History Professor, Berkeley, CENTRAL EUROPEAN HISTORY, March 2004, pp. 39-40
All of these questions, however, still address primarily the activities of technocrats and
AND
politics; the opposite seems in fact to be at least equally true.

The perm allows a system of benign engineering that takes both safety and social aspects into account
Neluheni, 01 – Professor of Urban Transportation Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee (Malindi, “Changing Identities in Transportation: Definition and Measurement of Cultural Exclusion in Innovative Design,” http://www.msas.maliwatch.org/msas2002/pdf/msas_pp048_56.pdf)//HK
5. DISSEMINATION AND APPLICATION Knowledge, information and culture are increasingly becoming borderless as
AND
engineering standards would be based on shared ideals among the community or subgroup.

The net benefit is democratic biopower which turns the impact
Dickinson 4 - Associate Professor, History Ph.D., U.C. Berkeley - 2004 (Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse About “Modernity,” Central European History, vol. 37, no. 1, 1–48)
In the Weimar model, then, the rights of the individual, guaranteed formally
AND
, and its rhetorical structure was too heavily slanted toward inclusion and tolerance.

No impact to biopower – only totalitarianism can cause it
O’Kane ’97 – U. of Keele, Rosemary, “Modernity, the Holocaust and politics”, Economy and Society, 26:1, 43 - 61
Persuasive though Bauman's theory appears, there are problems contained within his arguments which are
AND
systems he offered two solutions for the problem of keeping bureaucracy under control.

Liberal democracy checks back the impact
Dickinson, 2004
(Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some reflections on our discourse about ‘modernity’,” Central European History, Vol. 37, Issue 1)
In an important programmatic statement of 1996 Geoff Eley celebrated the fact that Foucault’s ideas
AND
not develop the dynamic of constant radicalization and escalation that characterized Nazi policies.
===2AC Buddhism K=== 
Action is ALWAYS before ontology – substantive changes are better than the paralysis an ontological focus causes
Owen ‘02
David Owen, Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7
Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a]
AND
the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

Perm do the plan and shed the ego– only method – social action must be utilized to solve
Snyder, 1985 [Gary, “Buddhism and the Possibilities of a Planetary Culture,” Deep Ecology, eds. Devall and Sessions]
The mercy of the West has been social revolution; the mercy of the East
AND
"-the I.W.W. slogan of seventy years ago.

Death is real and must be avoided
Paul Harrison, freelance writer, consultant on population, environment and development, M.A. in European literature languages from Cambridge University, M.A. in sociology from the London School of Economics, and Ph.D. in environmental science from Cambridge University, 1997 (“The Afterlife: false promises, real problems,” Scientific Pantheism, March 13, Available Online at http://members.aol.com/pantheism0/afterlif.htm, Accessed 02-23-2006)
Other than scripture, there is no reliable evidence for survival after death. There
AND
claim survival after death to prove it conclusively. No-one has.

Buddhism justifies inaction and ceding the entire government
Snyder, 1985 [Gary, “Buddhism and the Possibilities of a Planetary Culture,” Deep Ecology, eds. Devall and Sessions]
No one can afford to be innocent, or to indulge himself [or herself
AND
; the air and water of the planet is being fouled by them.

Impact is extinction
Boggs 1997(Carl, Professor of Political Sience – National University, Theory & Society 26, December, p. 773-4)
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series
AND
of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75

===2AC Burke K=== 
Deterrence theory creates a mutual vulnerability and respect that ushers in a paradigm of onto-security
Lupovici, 2008 (Amir, Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto,
“Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”
http://cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf)

Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in
AND
it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence.

You can’t solve the root cause of war – deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Action is ALWAYS before ontology – substantive changes are better than the paralysis an ontological focus causes
Owen ‘02
David Owen, Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7
Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a]
AND
the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.
===2AC Climate Catastrophe K=== 
Just because economics was part of the problem of environmental destruction does not mean economic rationality should be disavowed – holds the keys to all environmental solutions
Scorse 8 – Professor of International Studies
Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book
Environmental problems exist at varying scales-local, regional, national, and international
AND
which I will discuss independently, even though some of their features overlap.

Applying economic value to the environment is the only way to internalize and combat environmental destruction
Scorse 8 – Professor of International Studies
Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book
The atmosphere is a much different type of resource, one that is not actively
AND
, or not enforced; as a result we observe massive deforestation.9


Portraying eco-damage as ‘extinction-level’ is a crucial communication act that forestalls complete extinction – it solves their turn because it sparks a new social ethic
Epstein and Zhao 9 – Lab of Medicine @ Hong Kong
Richard J. Epstein and Y. Zhao ‘9 – Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name; Human Extinction, Perspectives in Biology and Medicine Volume 52, Number 1, Winter 2009, Muse
Final ends for all species are the same, but the journeys will be different
AND
as “human nature” (Tudge 1989). [End Page 122]

Environmental securitization is necessary to accurately represent the link between climate and conflict
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 12-13
The expected consequences of climate change include rising sea levels and population displacement, increasing
AND
different societies respond to climate change is one way of making that possible.

The 1AC is necessary discourse – combating complacency is crucial to halting certain and inevitable extinction
Epstein and Zhao 9 – Lab of Medicine @ Hong Kong
Richard J. Epstein and Y. Zhao ‘9 – Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name; Human Extinction, Perspectives in Biology and Medicine Volume 52, Number 1, Winter 2009, Muse
We shall not speculate here as to the “how and when” of human
AND
and newsworthy than the roller-coaster booms and busts of stock markets.

Already passed the tipping point – 400ppm is the critical threshold
Michael McCarthy, Environment Editor of The Independent, Global warming: passing the 'tipping point', 2006 http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/global-warming-passing-the-tipping-point-466187.html
A crucial global warming "tipping point" for the Earth, highlighted only last
AND
tipping point warned about last week by the Government is already behind us.

Rational choice theory is accurate
Camerer 6 - American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology (Colin, “Neuroeconomics:
Using neuroscience to make economic predictions”, May 2 of 2006, http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf)//AW
In many simple choice domains, evolution has had a long time to sculpt pan
AND
, obeying the GARP axiom, when exchanging tokens for different food rewards.

War turns structural violence
Goldstein 1—Prof PoliSci @ American University, Joshua, War and Gender , P. 412
First, peace activists face a dilemma in thinking about causes of war and working
AND
on injustice as the main cause of war seems to be empirically inadequate.

===2AC Death Cult K=== 
The 1ac is a positive vision for the future that inspires hope – regardless of fear, this is absolutely critical to activism.
Sandman and Valenti, 86 [Peter M. Sandman, Professor of Human Ecology at Rutgers University, and JoAnn M. Valenti, Associate Chair of the Department of Communications at Brigham Young University, 1986, “Scared stiff — or scared into action,” Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, January, Available Online at http://www.psandman.com/articles/scarstif.htm, Accessed 10-16-2004]
“The main obstacle to action,” writes Frank, “is neither apathy
AND
measure their efficacy. Constructing it should be a top-priority task.

Should avoid preventable death – contemplating it gives meaning to our life
Kelsang 99 - internationally renowned teacher of Buddhism
Geshe, [[http://dealingwithfear.org/fear-of-death.htm]]
Preparing for Death Generally, our fear of death is an unhealthy and unrealistic fear
AND
is one of the kindest and wisest things we can do both for ourself

Even if there’s no objective reason to preserve life there is unique value in fulfilling the narrative shape of human life – truncating life before it can be fully lived is uniquely bad.
James Lenman, Lecturer in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Glasgow, 2002 (“On Becoming Extinct," Pacific Philosophical Quarterly, Volume 83, p. 253-254)
Everybody dies. Perhaps, though there are grounds for doubt1, this is a
AND
this progress in ways it makes great sense for us not to welcome.

Some suffering may be inevitable – but extreme suffering is unjustified
Edelglass, 6 (William, Department of Philosophy, Colby College in Maine, “Levinas on Suffering and Compassion,” Sophia, Volume 45, Issue 2, October 2006, pg. 43-59, SpringerLink, pdf, Tashma)
According to Levinas's phenomenology, mild discomfort can be mastered by consciousness. But,
AND
consider suffering to be evil only when it is both severe and unjustified.
===2AC Deterrence K=== 
Deterrence theory creates a mutual vulnerability and respect that ushers in a paradigm of onto-security
Lupovici, 2008 (Amir, Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto,
“Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”
http://cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf)

Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in
AND
it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence.

You can’t solve the root cause of war – deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Accurate and verifiable scholarship shows low deterrence is the most important factor causing war
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)

As so broadly conceived, there is strong evidence that deterrence - that is,
AND
totality of external factors, that is, deterrence, that become crucial.
===2AC Economic Rationality K=== 
Our economic predictions based on empirics are true
DOUGLAS W. HANDS 84 Department of Economics University of Puget Sound What Economics Is Not: An Economist's Response to Rosenberg Source: Philosophy of Science, Vol. 51, No. 3 (Sep., 1984), pp. 495-503 http://www.jstor.org/stable/187496
1. Economic Predictions. Much of Rosenberg's discussion is directed toward explaining the "
AND
its predictive failings are not as great as Rosenberg would have us believe.

Predictions are invetiable – rejection turns your war machine arguments because then it will do things without democratic decisionmaking
Fitzsimmons, Defence Analyst, ‘7 (Michael, Winter, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning” Survival)
In defence of prediction Uncertainty is not a new phenomenon for strategists. Clausewitz knew
AND
reinvigorate their efforts in the messy but indispensable business of predicting the future.

Predictions solve extinction
Kurasawa, 2004
Associate Professor of Sociology at York University (Fuyuki, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight”, Constellations Volume 11, Issue 4, December 2004)
Although farsightedness has a long history in world affairs, we can trace back the
AND
case of the spiraling African and Asian AIDS pandemics, appear particularly glaring,

Rational choice theory is accurate
Camerer 6 - American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology (Colin, “Neuroeconomics:
Using neuroscience to make economic predictions”, May 2 of 2006, http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf)//AW
In many simple choice domains, evolution has had a long time to sculpt pan
AND
, obeying the GARP axiom, when exchanging tokens for different food rewards.

Alternatives to rational choice theory are non-falsifiable, which is worse
Vanberg 02 – Professor of Economics at the University of Freiburg (Viktor, “Rational Choice vs. Program-based Behavior: Alternative Theoretical Approaches and their Relevance for the Study of Institutions,” Sage, 2/02/02, http://rss.sagepub.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/14/1/7.full.pdf, )
The notion that human behavior is "˜subjectively rational' does per se impose no restrictions
AND
, or his 'knowledge of the relation between actions and consequences' (ibid.).

Empirical validity is a prerequisite to argumentation
Benson and Stangroom 06 [Ophelia and Jeremy, authors of many philosophy books, Why truth matters, 63-64]
Science and other forms of empirical enquiry such as history and forensic investigation do have
AND
reason to want to live by lies and mistakes than anyone else has.

Rejection of empirical validity causes extinction
Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)
Supernatural forces and events, essential aspects of most religions, play no role in
AND
politics and religion, we desperately need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.

Economics are inherently mutualists – everybody benefits
Camagni 02 (Roberto, 12/1/02, “On the Concept of Territorial Competitiveness: Sound or Misleading?”, Sage Publications on behalf of the Urban Studies Journal Foundation, p. 2407, http://usj.sagepub.com/content/39/13/2395. Roberto Camagni works at the Polytechnic of Milan - Department BEST (Buildings, Environment, Science, and Technology)) RYS
Hopefully, the way towards territorial competitiveness, engaging public administrations and local communities in
AND
at the very base of economic development, in its ‘generative’ sense.

US model is key – alternative is mercantilism which destroys cooperation and risks protectionist wars
Posen 9 – Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)
In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might
AND
rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.

===2AC Hegemony Bad K=== 
Thompson ‘3
(Michael J., Founder and Editor of Logos and Teaches Political Theory @ Hunter College, CUNY, Fall, "Iraq, Hegemony, and the Question of American Empire" - Logos, Vol. 2, Issue 4, http://www.logosjournal.com/thompson~iraq.htm)
Hegemony in international terms without some kind of competing force, such as the Soviets
AND
where poverty, oppression and dictatorships are the norm and remain stubbornly intact.

Under this order, global violence is decreasing
Steven Pinker, 9-24-2011, Harvard College Professor of Psychology at Harvard University, “Violence Vanquished,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html
On the day this article appears, you will read about a shocking act of
AND
impetus to cherish the forces of civilization and enlightenment that made it possible.

Under this order, every measure of life is statistically improving
Goklany, 1
(Indur Goklany, fmr Manager, EPA Emissions Trading; Science & Technology Analyst, Department of the Interior; US Representative, IPCC & UNFCC; Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, 2001, “Economic Growth and the State of Humanity,” PERC Policy Series, google)
Since 1800, global population has increased about sixfold (FAO 2000; McEvedy and
AND
, typhoid, diarrhea, dysentery, and other water-related illnesses.

Heg solves the impact to your k
Gitlin 3. Todd Gitlin, Writer for Mother Jones, an Investigative Activist Organization, 7/14/2003 ("Goodbye, New World Order: Keep the Global Ideal Alive" - MotherJones.Com) [[http://www.motherjones.com/commentary/gitlin/2003/07/we_478_01.html]]
The point is that this would be a terrible time to give up on internationalism
AND
international law with enforcers; not empire, but human rights with guns.


===2AC Heidegger K=== 
Ontological focus is bad—it’s subjective, non-falsifiable, and authoritarian
Graham, ’99 Phil Graham, Graduate School of Management , University of Queensland, Heidegger’s Hippies: A dissenting voice on the “problem of the subject” in cyberspace, Identities in Action! 1999, http://www.philgraham.net/HH_conf.pdf
Of course, “the problem of the subject” is not specific to
AND
become both lingua franca and world currency (Adorno 1964/1973 1973)

Ethics before ontology – our ethic is utilitarianism
Bulley 04 (Dan, PhD Candidate @ Department of Politics and International Studies--University of Warwick, "Ethics and Negotiation," www.lancs.ac.uk/fss/politics/events/aber/ethics%20and%20negotiation%20-%20bulley.doc)
Crucially an openness to justice cannot be an a priori good thing. Indeed,
AND
), but it nevertheless remains a closure. And every closure is problematic.
====1AR Environmental Pragmatism Good==== 

Environmental pragmatism is best. Alternatives like anarchy, localism, spirituality, and eco-centrism will get squashed and worsen current destruction
Taylor 2k – Professor of Social Ethics
Bron, Professor of Religion & Social Ethics, Director of Environmental Studies, University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh, BENENEATH THE SURFACE: CRITICAL ESSAYS IN THE PHILOSOPHY OF DEEP ECOLOGY, P. 282-284
A more trenchant problem is how bioregionalists (and the anarchists who influenced their most
AND
, the most beautiful bioregional experiments and models will be overwhelmed and futile.
===2AC Inevitability K=== 
The discourse of inevitability is accurate and NECESSARY for accurate communication and action on climate change
Risbey ‘7 [1/15/7, James S. Risbey. “The new climate discourse: Alarmist or alarming?” Science Direct, http://cstpr.colorado.edu/students/envs_4800/risbey_2008.pdf]
Hulme (2006) says that the ‘‘language of catastrophe is not the language
AND
also be rendered ‘unscientific’, and there is no scope for communication.

Public advocacy of climate solutions key to change governmental policy---individual change insufficient
CAG 10—Climate Change Communication Advisory Group. Dr Adam Corner School of Psychology, Cardiff University - Dr Tom Crompton Change Strategist, WWF-UK - Scott Davidson Programme Manager, Global Action Plan - Richard Hawkins Senior Researcher, Public Interest Research Centre - Professor Tim Kasser, Psychology department, Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois, USA. - Dr Renee Lertzman, Center for Sustainable Processes & Practices, Portland State University, US. - Peter Lipman, Policy Director, Sustrans. - Dr Irene Lorenzoni, Centre for Environmental Risk, University of East Anglia. - George Marshall, Founding Director, Climate Outreach , Information Network - Dr Ciaran Mundy, Director, Transition Bristol - Dr Saffron O’Neil, Department of Resource Management and Geography, University of Melbourne, Australia. - Professor Nick Pidgeon, Director, Understanding Risk Research Group, School of Psychology, Cardiff University. - Dr Anna Rabinovich, School of Psychology, University of Exeter - Rosemary Randall, Founder and director of Cambridge Carbon Footprint - Dr Lorraine Whitmarsh, School of Psychology, Cardiff University & Visiting Fellow at the, Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research. (Communicating climate change to mass public audience, http://pirc.info/downloads/communicating_climate_mass_audiences.pdf)
This short advisory paper collates a set of recommendations about how best to shape mass
AND
they would like structural barriers to behavioural/societal change to be removed.

Framework – the debate is a policy simuluation - view the alternative as a CP
The 1AC’s epistemological/methodological presentation is good—risk assessment and worst case scenario planning is necessary for best policymaking in the context of climate adaptation and avoids serial policy failure—the alternative to this is decisions based on individual impulses of anxiety—education on these issues is specifically key to galvanize political support
Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
In the context of climate adaptation, assessing risk means identifying specific (climaterelated)
AND
Fischhoff, 1996; NRC, 1996b; Patt and Dessai, 2005).

-Relying on a value shift to less consumption can’t prevent climate change—others will consume even if large parts of the population adopt a sufficiency lifestyle.
Blake ALCOTT Ecological Economist Masters from Cambridge in Land Economy ‘8 The sufficiency strategy: Would rich-world frugality lower environmental impact? Ecological Economics 64 (4) p. Science Direct

The environmental sufficiency strategy of greater consumer frugality has become popular in ecological economics,
AND
to stem climate change and the loss of vital species and natural resources.
===2AC Introna K=== 
Alt fails – human values are inevitable
Grey 93 — William Grey, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Queensland, 1993 (“Anthropocentrism and Deep Ecology,” Australiasian Journal of Philosophy, Volume 71, Number 4, Available Online at http://www.uq.edu.au/~pdwgrey/pubs/anthropocentrism.html, Accessed 07-27-2011)
The attempt to provide a genuinely non-anthropocentric set of values, or preferences
AND
, and ourselves, going for a few more cosmic seconds [10].

Extinction is bad – ethics should be grounded in direct experience – pain and consciousness should be our moral guidlines
Phelps 2009
Norm, Author of The Great Compassion: Buddhism and Animal Rights. In The Great Compassion, “The Quest for a Boundless Ethic: A Reassessment of Albert Schweitzer” Journal for Critical Animal Studies, VII.1
Here, Schweitzer makes no distinction between the way we should treat sentient and insentient
AND
an ethic based on love and compassion by trying to reach beyond it.

We are more than matter – experiments prove
Bladon 2007
[Lee, creator of esoteric science, "6a - The Multidimensional Human," September 6, Author of
The Science of Spirituality: Integrating Science, Psychology, Philosophy, Spirituality & Religion, http://www.esotericscience.org/article6a.htm]
Dr Evan Harris Walker, author of The Physics of Consciousness, is regarded as
AND
awake, "dead" or "alive" – it is eternal.
===2AC KATO K=== 
Fear of nuclear weapons is key to space, solves extinction
Bainbridge 1985
(William, phd national science foundation, “beyond bureaucratic policy,” people in space mysite.verizon.net/william.bainbridge/dl/beyond.htm)
At present, the public spaceflight organizations are inoffensive and practically impotent. The profusion
AND
those cataclysmic social conditions which might be exploited in a new rush forward.

Depicting scenarios for nuclear war creates a fear that drives people to action and arouses anger at injustices – the alternative creates irresponsibility and inaction
Grinspoon 1986 [Lester, Professor of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, (The Long Darkness: Psychological and Moral Perspectives on Nuclear Winter) p. 3-4]
The late Archibald MacLeish wrote, "Knowledge without feelings is not knowledge, and
AND
out of numbness or self-delusion and into confrontation of the reality.

Nuclear use is genocidal and escalates to further genocide - billions could die
Weeramantry '96 (Christopher Gregory, Law Pf - Monash U & International Court of Justice Judge, "Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons," July 8, http:/iwww.dfat.gov.au/intorgs/icj-nuc/w)
Nuclear weapons used in response to a nuclear attack, especially in the event of
AND
a crime against humanity. This is precisely what a nuclear weapon achieves.

Nuclear war IS genocide - our case operates within their own framework
Lang'86
(Beret, Professor of philosophy and hu~nanistics tudies - SUNY,N UCLEAR WEAPONS AND THE FUTURE OF HUMANITY: THE FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS, Eds: Avner Cohen & Steven Lee, p. 122-123)
The question still remains whether genocide and omnicide are related to each other other than
AND
that of omnicide is now entailed in the willed consideration of nuclear war.

Moral absolutism is complicity with violence – it allows people to die for the sake of clean hands
Isaac, 2002
(Jeffrey C., James H. Rudy professor of Political Science and director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life at Indiana University, Bloomington, “Ends, Means and politics,” Dissent, Spring)
As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah
AND
not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.

1. Extinction of the species is the most horrible impact imaginable, putting rights or ontology first is putting a part of society before the whole
Schell, 82 (Jonathan, Professor at Wesleyan University, The Fate of the Earth, pages 136-137)
Implicit in everything that I have said so far about the nuclear predicament there has
AND
about, coloring our thoughts and moods with its presence throughout our lives.

2. Because of the advent of nuclear omnicide, ethics should not be held absolute
Joseph Nye, Director of the Center for Science and International Affairs @ Harvard University, Nuclear Ethics, 1986
The significance and the limits of the two broad traditions can be captured by contemplating
AND
bear a heavier burden of proof in the nuclear age than ever before.

3. Utilitarianism is inevitable it will indefinitely permeate human thought
Allison, Professor of Political Philosophy at University of Warwick, 1990 (Lincoln, “The Utilitarianism Response”)
And yet if an idea can be compared to a castle, though we find
AND
Bentham and to judge actions on there consequences for people's well-being.

===2AC Presumption K=== 
Life is the highest value because it makes possible all other values – the demand that we prove that life is valuable is nonsensical because the concept of “valuable” presupposes the primacy of life. [We apologize for the gendered language]
Paul St. F. Blair, Xavier University, 1985 (“The Randian Argument Reconsidered: A Reply to Charles King,” Reason Papers: A Journal of Interdisciplinary Normative Studies, Issue 10, Spring, p. 95-96, Available Online at http://www.mises.org/reasonpapers/pdf/10/rp_10_7.pdf, Accessed 02-22-2006)
The demonstration that life is the ultimate value has not yet been accomplished, however
AND
The very meaning of "valuable" presupposes the value of life.18

===2AC Race K=== 
Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equality
Cummiskey ‘90
David, Professor of Philosophy, Bates, Kantian Consequentialism, Ethics 100.3, p 601-2, p 606, jstor
We must not obscure the issue by characterizing this type of case as the sacrifice
AND
consideration of conduct, one's own subjective concerns do not have overriding importance.

Moral absolutism is complicity with violence – it allows people to die for the sake of clean hands
Isaac, 2002
(Jeffrey C., James H. Rudy professor of Political Science and director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life at Indiana University, Bloomington, “Ends, Means and politics,” Dissent, Spring)
As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah
AND
not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.

Racism is not the individual cause of violence – evolution demonstrates violence is more complex
Gat 9 —Ezer Weitzman Professor for National Security in the Department of Political Science at Tel Aviv [Azar, “So Why Do People Fight? Evolutionary Theory and the Causes of War” European Journal of International Relations 15]
Bradley Thayer’s excellent article (2000) and book (2004) are the most
AND
motivational mechanisms, directly linked to the first, that we now turn.


You can’t solve the root cause of war – deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Economic decline turns the imapct
Friedman 5 – Professor of Economics @ Harvard
Ben, professor of economics at Harvard, Meltdown: A Case Study, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200507/friedman
Would it really be so bad if living standards in the United States stagnated—
AND
in practically every aspect of daily life, together with appalling racial violence.

Leadership solves the impact
Gitlin 3. Todd Gitlin, Writer for Mother Jones, an Investigative Activist Organization, 7/14/2003 ("Goodbye, New World Order: Keep the Global Ideal Alive" - MotherJones.Com) [[http://www.motherjones.com/commentary/gitlin/2003/07/we_478_01.html]]
The point is that this would be a terrible time to give up on internationalism
AND
international law with enforcers; not empire, but human rights with guns.

===2AC Roleplaying K=== 
A. Debating transportation policy is the only way to create youth agency
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007). Educating young
AND
with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

B. The impact is real change
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

Political simulation grants us agency over our plan
Coverstone 05—MBA coach (Alan, Acting on Activism, http://home.montgomerybell.edu/~coversa/Acting%20on%20Activism%20(Nov%2017-2005).doc, AG)
An important concern emerges when Mitchell describes reflexive fiat as a contest strategy capable of
AND
middle ground that preserves the American tradition of debate and deliberation within government.
===2AC Security K=== 
Accurate and verifiable scholarship shows low deterrence is the most important factor causing war
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
As so broadly conceived, there is strong evidence that deterrence - that is,
AND
totality of external factors, that is, deterrence, that become crucial.

You can’t solve the root cause of war – deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Deterrence is not a self-fulfilling prophecy—it creates huge incentives for collective security.
Lupovici, 8 – Post-Doctoral Fellow @ Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto (Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse,” http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf )
Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in
AND
it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence.

Threats are real and changing discursive practices domestically reinforces the worst aspects of a security approach
Copeland 2k
Associate Professor in the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs University of Virginia, Fall 2000 (International Security)
Social Theory of International Politics provides an important starting point for further debate and constructivist
AND
cannot be talked away through better discursive practices. It must be faced.

Alt fails - evolution
Pyszczynski et al 6
Tom, Prof. Psych. – U. Colorado, Sheldon Solomon, Prof. Psych. – Skidmore College, Jeff Greenberg, Prof. Psych. – U. Arizona, and Molly Maxfield, U. Colorado, Psychological Inquiry, “On the Unique Psychological Import of the Human Awareness of Mortality: Theme and Variations” 17:4, Ebsco
Kirkpatrick and Navarette’s (this issue) first specific complaint with TMT is that it
AND
didn’t have the ability to instigate fear reactions in response to such threats?

Real world affects discourse – attempts to just change the security mindset is wishful thinking that increases violent fascism
Mearsheimer 95
Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, 1995 (International Security)
FLAWS IN THE CAUSAL LOGIC. The main goal of critical theorists is to change
AND
far more violent than realism will not emerge as the new hegemonic discourse.

====AT Gendered Discourse K==== 

Patriarchy doesn’t cause war.
Jack S. Levy, Governors' Professor of Political Science at Rutgers University, 1998 (“The Causes Of War And The Conditions Of Peace,” Annual Review of Political Science, Volume 1, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Annual Reviews Full Text)
Another exception to the focus on variations in war and peace can be found in
AND
a constant—and consequently it cannot explain variations in war and peace.


===2AC Taoism K=== 
Endorsing attempts to change the world is key to life’s value – this evidence is an internal link turn to all of their impacts.
Todd May, Professor of Philosophy at Clemson University, 2005 (“To change the world, to celebrate life: Merleau-Ponty and Foucault on the body,” Philosophy & Social Criticism, Volume 31, Numbers 5/6, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Sage Publications, p. 527-529)
IXAnd what happens from there? From the meetings, from the rallies, from
AND
acknowledge the chiasm of body and world that is the wellspring of both.

The plan and Taoism are not contradictory—perm do both
Ralph Pettman, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, 2005 (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72)
We are still faced with fundamental uncertainty about the ground on which we stand (
AND
a task with normative implications considerably more extensive than those rationalists would valorize.

Death is real and must be avoided
Paul Harrison, freelance writer, consultant on population, environment and development, M.A. in European literature languages from Cambridge University, M.A. in sociology from the London School of Economics, and Ph.D. in environmental science from Cambridge University, 1997 (“The Afterlife: false promises, real problems,” Scientific Pantheism, March 13, Available Online at http://members.aol.com/pantheism0/afterlif.htm, Accessed 02-23-2006)
Other than scripture, there is no reliable evidence for survival after death. There
AND
claim survival after death to prove it conclusively. No-one has.

===2AC Transportation Rationality K=== 
Economic ties and democracy prevent genocide
O’Kane 97[“Modernity, the Holocaust, and politics”, Economy and Society, February, ebsco]
Chosen policies cannot be relegated to the position of immediate condition (Nazis in power
AND
and common attributes of modernity which stand in the way of modern genocides.

Liberal democracy checks back the impact
Dickinson, 2004
(Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some reflections on our discourse about ‘modernity’,” Central European History, Vol. 37, Issue 1)
In an important programmatic statement of 1996 Geoff Eley celebrated the fact that Foucault’s ideas
AND
not develop the dynamic of constant radicalization and escalation that characterized Nazi policies.

Framework – debate is a policy simulation – view the laternative as a CP = The 1AC’s epistemological/methodological presentation is good—risk assessment and worst case scenario planning is necessary for best policymaking in the context of climate adaptation and avoids serial policy failure—the alternative to this is decisions based on individual impulses of anxiety—education on these issues is specifically key to galvanize political support
Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
In the context of climate adaptation, assessing risk means identifying specific (climaterelated)
AND
Fischhoff, 1996; NRC, 1996b; Patt and Dessai, 2005).


Alt fails – no participation
Svensson ‘8
(Dr. Jakob Svensson, Department of Communication Studies, Lund University, 25108 Helsingborg, Sweden – Communication, Culture & CritiqueVolume 1, Issue 2, Article first published online: 29 JUL 2008 – available via Wiley database)
The old conflict between instrumental and communicative rationality is thus embodied under these new circumstances
AND
taken part in the activity and how ‘‘good’’ the dialogue had been.

===2AC Virilibic K=== 
My answers all suck and will lose to Virilio anytime that sick 2N from umich goes for it

No impact to speed.
Thrift 5 — Nigel Thrift, Head of the Division of Life and Environmental Sciences and Professor of Geography at the University of Oxford, 2005 (“Panicsville: Paul Virilio and the Esthetic of Disaster,” Cultural Politics, Volume 1, Issue 3, November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via SocINDEX, p. 357)
Than take speed. I have shown in numerous papers, as have many commentators
AND
dislodgeable—but that doesn't mean that philosophers have to power it up.

Fast is good – it creates an inclusive community for more democratic deliberation
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
But while there are still threats to world peace and even human survival from the
AND
road to a computopia of information, entertainment, affluence, and democracy.

Alt fails – no method for being implemented into society and it condemns technology
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
Virilio misses a key component of the drama of technology in the present age and
AND
proliferating and changing every aspect of society and culture in the present era.

The alt causes fascism—the permutation doesn’t.
Connolly 2k — William E. Connolly, Professor and Chair of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, 2000 (“Speed, Concentric Cultures, and Cosmopolitanism,” Political Theory, Volume 28, Number 5, October, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 598)
Speed can be dangerous. At a certain point of acceleration, it jeopardizes freedom
AND
the positive potentialities of speed while working to attenuate its most dangerous effects.

The impact is scapegoating and violence.
Connolly 2 — William E. Connolly, Professor and Chair of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, 2002 (“Democracy and Time,” Neuropolitics: Thinking, Culture, Speed, Published by the University of Minnesota Press, ISBN0816640211, p. 161-162)
My wager is that it is more possible to negotiate a democratic ethos congruent with
AND
the best orientation to adopt toward the contemporary nexus between speed and democracy.

Speeding Tech is good – only way to solve transhumanism
Bostrom 5[Nick, Oxford University, Faculty of Philosophy, “Transhumanist Values,” Last Mod Sept 17, http://www.nickbostrom.com/ethics/values.html]
Wide access. It is not enough that the posthuman realm be explored by someone
AND
they are made available as soon as possible, preferably within our lifetime.

And even if not explicit – Virilio’s criticism of technology crushes progress
Raman, ‘09 Masters in Math from University of Calcutta, quantum mechanics doctorate from University of Paris (Varadarajara, 1/23/09, “Global Spiral”, http://www.metanexus.net/Magazine/ArticleDetail/tabid/68/id/10678/Default.aspx)
Next there are philosophical reasons for the anti-science movements, formulated by thinkers
AND
this sense philosophical anti-science is perhaps the most dangerous of all.

Transhumanism solves disease, aging, rape, and violence
Bostrom 9 PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2/5/2009, “IN DEFENSE OF POSTHUMAN DIGNITY”, http://www.psy.vanderbilt.edu/courses/hon182/Posthuman_dignity_Bostrom.pdf)
The prospect of posthumanity is feared for at least two reasons. One is that
AND
reform ourselves and our natures in accordance with humane values and personal aspirations.

Accidents are inevitable and the only way to mitigate them is with technology
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
With the collapse of the Soviet Union and end of the Cold War, we
AND
are aware of objects and events in a highly discontinuous and fragmented mode.
===2AC Zizek K=== 
Capitalism is the only moral economic system – morality only thrives in a state of freedom
Billings, 83
(Donald B., Professor of Economics at Boise State University, The Freeman: Ideas on Liberty, “The Moral Case for Competitive Capitalism”, July, http://www.fee.org/vnews.php?nid=1277)
<Following the lead of the economist Benjamin Rogge, it is in fact the
AND
other systems in varying degrees treat men as less than this.[12]>

Portraying eco-damage as ‘extinction-level’ is a crucial communication act that forestalls complete extinction – it solves their turn because it sparks a new social ethic
Epstein and Zhao 9 – Lab of Medicine @ Hong Kong
Richard J. Epstein and Y. Zhao ‘9 – Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name; Human Extinction, Perspectives in Biology and Medicine Volume 52, Number 1, Winter 2009, Muse
Final ends for all species are the same, but the journeys will be different
AND
as “human nature” (Tudge 1989). [End Page 122]


Their arguments are tautological and have no empirical basis
Andrew Robinson, Ph.D. in Political Theory at the University of Nottingham, 2005 (“The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique,” Theory & Event, Volume 8, Issue 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)
The theoretical underpinnings of political Lacanianism typically rely on a "postmodern" disdain for
AND
he is committed to euphoric investments generated through the repetition of the same.

Empirical validity is a prerequisite to argumentation
Benson and Stangroom 06 [Ophelia and Jeremy, authors of many philosophy books, Why truth matters, 63-64]
Science and other forms of empirical enquiry such as history and forensic investigation do have
AND
reason to want to live by lies and mistakes than anyone else has.

Deterrence theory creates a mutual vulnerability and respect that ushers in a paradigm of onto-security
Lupovici, 2008 (Amir, Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto,
“Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”
http://cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf)

Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in
AND
it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence.

You can’t solve the root cause of war – deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)
If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic
AND
in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Action is ALWAYS before ontology – substantive changes are better than the paralysis an ontological focus causes
Owen ‘02
David Owen, Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7
Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a]
AND
the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

Economic interdependence is the only way to avoid conflict – our epistemology is true and good
Weede 2004 (Erich, professor of sociology at the University of Bonn, Germany, In Winter 1986-87, he was Visiting Professor of International Relations at the Bologna Center of The Johns Hopkins University, “BALANCE OF POWER, GLOBALIZATION, AND THE CAPITALIST PEACE,” [[http://www.fnf.org.ph/downloadables/Balance%20of%20Power,%20Globalization%20and%20Capitalist%20Peace.pdf]])
If one does research or summarize the research of others – of course, most
AND
hodgepodge of ambiguous hunches, contradictory thinking, and unsystematically evaluated empirical evidence.


There is no justification for psychoanalytic theory
Robinson 5 — Andrew Robinson, Ph.D. in Political Theory at the University of Nottingham, 2005 (“The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique,” Theory & Event, Volume 8, Issue 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)
Lacanian analysis consists mainly of an exercise in projection. As a result, Lacanian
AND
hypostases'. Instead of actual social forces, there are 'shadows and spectres'57.

=Race Aff= 
==Case== 
===2AC AT Warming Not Real=== 

Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.
Mooney ’11, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)
They’re the conservative white men (CWM) of climate change denial, and we’ve
AND
radio show, and various climate denial blogs serve to fan the flames.

===2AC AT Util=== 

You should prioritize the effects of racial discrimination in the face of their utility calculus—utilitarianism’s attempt at neutrality guarantees the annihilation of minority interests in the United States—colorblind impact frameworks are problematic when the individuals making decisions are not race neutral—star this card
Byrnes, ’99 [Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535]
A functionalist critique of utilitarianism could also be employed in this context to advocate the
AND
competition with societal goals, individual rights will be annihilated every time. 296

Utilitarianism makes any resolution to the question of racism impossible—moral rights can never be understood as positive obligations
Byrnes, ’99 [Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535]
Utilitarianism conceives of rights as being cognizable only when they are legally recognized. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=fdfc372535b1591e66a5c7fa67382eb8&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzV-zSkAz&_md5=d1b4b9252176f702e06e3482411531fb#n236|236]]</span>
AND
converge with legal rights. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=fdfc372535b1591e66a5c7fa67382eb8&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzV-zSkAz&_md5=d1b4b9252176f702e06e3482411531fb#n250|250]]</span> This may not necessarily be the case.

Their defenses of utilitarianism are rigged—whites are positioned to maintain utilitarianism because failure to do so would require recognition of their privilege
Byrnes, ’99 [Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535]
Not only is the aforementioned distinction between moral and legal semantic in nature, but
AND
compel a recognition of the duties bound up in the exercise of rights.

Utilitarianism is most effective through a racial lens.
The attempted impartiality of utilitarianism devalues the interests of certain groups – makes inequality inevitable.
Odell ‘4 [2004, Jack, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Philosophy @ University of Illinois, “On Consequentialist Ethics,” Wadsworth, Thomson Learning, Inc., pp. 98-103]
A classic objection to both act and rule utilitarianism has to do with inequity,
AND
year to be sacrificed to the Gods for the welfare of the group.

Good decision-making requires you to reject their fixation on worst-case scenarios
Rescher ’83 [1983, Nicholas, Risk Analysis Man, Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]
The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of
AND
satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.

Value-neutral impact analysis cannot account for the day to day impact of racism – default to our systemic impacts
Mohan, ’93 [1993, Brij, Professor at LSU, “Eclipse Of Freedom,” p. 3-4]
The ordeal of existence transcends the thermonuclear fever because the latter does not directly impact
AND
-neutral assessment cannot be a politically correct statement on the human condition.

1AR AT Util
Try or Die – Isolation of racially oppressed groups leads to the TERMINATION OF HUMANITY.
Marable Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies 1984
Manning-Professor of History @ Columbia University; “Speaking Truth to Power: Essays on Race, Resistance and Radicalism; p. 198-199.
Black Americans also comprehend that peace is not the absence of conflict. As long
AND
the electoral mainstream, the results may be the termination of humanity itself.



==Topicality== 
===2AC T Substantial=== 
C/I - Substantially means to a great or significant extent:
Christine Lindberg, 2007 (Managing Editor), OXFORD COLLEGE DICTIONARY, 2nd Ed., 07, 1369. (NY: Sparks Publishing)
Substantially: to a great or significant extent.

==Disadvantages== 
===2AC China War DA=== 

Discursive constructions of China as a threat ensures endless violence
Pan 2k4 Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, 2004, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives (29) 2004
Having examined how the "China threat" literature is enabled by and serves the
AND
Bush repeatedly said that "the enemy [of America] is unpredictability.

Impacts of nuclear war only seek to mask the oppression and exploitation of white supremacy and institutionally racist practices
Omalade 1984 (Barbara-a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements City College Center for Worker Education in New York City Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, Summer, p. 12;http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305)
In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
AND
cultural integrity, and nuclear arsenals and housing? Who will stand up?

Nuclear war claims are exaggerated by the white elites as a global issue when most of the damage would only effect first world countries. The REAL starvation, poverty, disease, and torture of third world countries OUTWEIGH their improbable impact.
Martin 84 (Brian, research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA; SANA Update (Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter), number 16, May 1984, pp. 5-6. <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html]]</span>)
Most of the continuing large-scale suffering in the world - caused by poverty
AND
western 'civilisation' - although nuclear war is hardly the way to achieve this.

===2AC Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
Reject the DA, it is an attempt to deny racial equality on the altar of political expediency
Cook, Professor of Law Georgetown University Law Center, 2000 (Anthony E., “RACE AND RELIGION: REVISING 'AMERICA'S MOST SEGREGATED HOUR': King and the Beloved Community: A Communitarian Defense of Black Reparations”, The George Washington Law Review)
If private confession is good for the individual's soul, societal confession is equally important
AND
humiliation have led to the historic atrocities committed against black people in America.

Economics is infiltrated with racist politics. A rising tide doesn’t raise all ships – economic growth differentially affects racial populations and leaves marginalized groups in the dust
Gabriel and Todorova ’2 [2002, Satyananda J., Evgenia O., “Racism and Capitalist Accumulation: An Overdetermined Nexus,” Journal of Critical Sociology]
The pervasiveness of racial consciousness cannot help but shape the economic relationships in contemporary capitalist
AND
been critical to the rapidity with which labor markets were established and expanded.


Ideology Outweighs

A) a presidential centered approach to politics is inaccurate, congressional factors determine legislative success – Obama proves
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]]</span>]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.


==Counterplans== 
===2AC Generic=== 
Permutation do the CP – the policy product begs a different question than the discussion of the 1AC – their arguments breed interpassivity – even if the plan is competitive with the counterplan – the performance of the 1AC and the discussion of racism is not
Gijs Van Oenen, Professor of Philosophy at the Erasmus University Rotterdam (Netherlands), 2006
["A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life," Theory & Event, Volume 9, Issue 2, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE //BATMAN]//
//But more importantly, the official view or 'ideology' underwriting interactivity denies that a shift//
//AND//
//process now mainly realizes, its main 'product', is involvement with itself.//

//The impact to that is political alienation – focusing on specific policies destroys our roles as agents that can change the way we critically examine the state//
//Gijs Van Oenen, Professor of Philosophy at the Erasmus University Rotterdam (Netherlands), 2006//
//["A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life," Theory & Event, Volume 9, Issue 2, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE// BATMAN]
Although interpassivity was first situated in the domain of the arts, the concept also
AND
3 The VCR, as it were, watches TV on our behalf.


===2AC Warming CP=== 

Our framing and motivation manners – how we communicate the justification the policy behind advocacies matter – they frame the CP through technical justifications based on the net benefit that kill discussions of warming while hiding racism, that’s Moser and Dilling More evidence
Moser and Dilling 2007 (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center
AND
Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 129 Mkoo)
It is precisely the unethical and unjust lack
AND
but muchreduced per capita emission standard (Global Commons Institute, 2001; Meyer, 2000).

Addressing racism is key to take a stance against warming.
Mandell ‘8 [4/1/08, Bekah Mandell is an A.B. from Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School; Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project; Father Robert Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow. “Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046&context=twlj]]</span>]
Abstract: Scientists have warned of the dangers of climate change for decades, yet
AND
, a consensus of inaction has developed to prevent meaningful reductions in emissions.

===2AC States CP=== 
Relegating the problem of racism to the states is disastrous – they reinforce the legacy of oppression and retrenches the problem
Stanford Journal of Civil Rights & Civil Liberties 6
[Aug 2006, "Arizona's Proposition 200 and the Supremacy of Federal Law: Elements of Law, Politics, and Faith"]
Though not a major problem given the political legitimacy and responsiveness of state government vis
AND
the states cannot be disregarded as historically contingent. Such harms persist today.

Permutation do both, the both racism should be the only question

Couterplan has a HUGE solvency deficit – States and Local governments are EXEMPT from CERD provisions allowing institutional racism to go unchecked.
Themba-Nixon, ‘1 [Makani Themba-Nixon, Editor of the Transnational Racial Justice Initiative ; The Persistence of White Privilege and Institutional Racism in US Policy; A Report on US Government Compliance with the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, compiled by Transnational Racial Justice Initiative; March; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thepraxisproject.org/tools/White_Privilege.pdf]]</span>]
I. Introduction 1. As a national collaborative of non governmental organizations dedicated to
AND
governance, will move the US toward more effective implementation of the CERD.

Racism’s global scope demands US incorporation of CERD.
Domestic rights groups MUST incorporate the provisions of CERD as the growing trend for U.S. courts to indirectly apply international human rights standards. U.S. activists attach ADDITIONAL meaning and content to civil rights statutes and the U.S. constitution as accepted under the ICCPR and CERD, this ESPECIALLY true to the WIDE ARRAY of problems that Blacks face. The color line is INTERNATIONAL and the INTERNATIONAL COLOR LINE is dependent on U.S. participation.
McDougall, ’97 [1997, Gay J. McDougall, Executive Director of the
AND
The Domestic Relevance of International Efforts to Eliminate All Forms of Racial Discrimination”]
Domestic rights groups must also seek, at minimum, to incorporate the provisions of
AND
, to the wide array of economic, social, political and cultural problems

CERD is key to eradicating global racial discrimination.
CERD embodies the WORLD’S expression that a UNIVERSAL international standard against race discrimination is NECESSARY. The U.S. is CHALLENGED to uphold CERD as domestic law has proven INADEQUATE. The application of international human rights law could be PIVOTAL to eradicating RACISM and its DELETERIOUS effects.
Taifa, ‘97 [1997, Nkechi Taifa, Dir. Of Howard Clinical Law Center’s Public Service Program, clinical instructor at Howard University School of Law and Director of Howard Clinical Law Center's Public Service Program, “Codification or Castration? The Applicability of the International Convention to Eliminate All Forms of Racial Discrimination to the U.S. Criminal Justice System” 40 How. L.J. 641]
The Race Convention embodies the world community's expression that a universal, international standard against
AND
for the Convention and a seriousness of purpose in eliminating racial discrimination. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=2999ba8b5b3ab2736e2b241260843f49&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=03010527e2fe01ed137d6ce0d4d8a97d#n267|267]]</span>



==Kritiks== 
===2AC State Bad K=== 
Policy simulation over transportation is best for learning the skills necessary for developing agency—this answers the Schlag card they will read in the block
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007). Educating young
AND
with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

Our framework arguments allow us to change transportation policy—
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]
Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

Their framework arguments is marginalizing to minorities—
a. Technocracy—current transportation policy is overly reliant on expertism, the “white male” perspective—the process of debates about specific policy is the only way to inject lived experience into the discussion—their aff reaches too far
Quick and Zhao, ’11 [October 2011, Kathryn S. Quick and Zhirong Jerry Zhao @ The Humphrey School of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota, “Suggested Design and Management Techniques for Enhancing Public Engagement in Transportation Policymaking”]
The technical complexity inherent in transportation service planning, financing, and infrastructure development presents
AND
credibility of the agency or policy decisions [64,65,34].

b. Their discourse as White supremacy being incapable of change mirrors actions taken by White Supremacy
WOODSON founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 1933
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.83-84
Not long ago a measure was introduced in a certain State Legislature to have the
AND
to conform to the policy of “keeping the Negro in his place.”

And, they limit the discussion of minorities over White Supremacy to focus solely on special issues of segregation and not the ways in which racism manifests in other issues
WOODSON founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 1933
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.94-95
Even the few Negroes who are elected to office are often similarly uninformed and show
AND
internal improvements, labor arbitration, the tariff, and the merchant marine.

c. Racial Pragmatism—The state is the only thing that can effectively solve racism
Franklin 1993
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 45
Neither the courts nor the Congress nor the president can declare by fiat, resolution
AND
it and, indeed, would be horrified if we even approached it.

And, the aim of liberation should focus on the state
Franklin 1993
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p.73-74
We now live in an age when the role of government is inevitably important whether
AND
of nation about which so many of us have dreamed but never realized.

Yes, the nation-state is not perfect, but refusal to reform ignores our best tools for resistance – abandonment of the state is naïve and dangerous.
Dussel, ‘11 [2011, Enrique Dussel, Professor of Philosophy at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, “From Critical Theory to the Philosophy of Liberation: Some Themes for Dialogue”, Transmodernity: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production, http://escholarship.org/uc/item/59m869d2]
We should proceed in politics in the very same manner that Marx proceeded in economics
AND
state” is a strategic orienting principle that functions as a regulative horizon.

All their reasons the state is bad are a reason to vote affirmative—engaging means we know the tactics of the oppressor
Williams, ’70 [1970, Robert F. Williams, interviewed by The Black Scholar, “Interviews,”, Vol. 1, No. 7, BLACK REVOLUTION (May 1970), pp. 2-14, http://www.jstor.org/stable/41163455]
Williams: It is erroneous to think that one can isolate oneself completely from institutions
AND
people enter the vital organs of the establishment. Infiltrate the man's institutions.

Specifically – anything other than pragmatic engagement fails
Grossberg, 92 (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389)
The demand for moral and ideological purity often results in the rejection of any hierarchy
AND
reasonably democratic structures of institutionalization, even if they are impure and compromised.

===2AC Ableism K=== 
Rhetoric doesn’t solve – the inevitability of linguistic slips make rejection have no impact
Rose '04 Damon Rose "Don't call me handicapped!"Editor of BBC disability website Ouch! Monday, 4 October, 2004 http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/magazine/3708576.stm
Due to popular rubbishing of what is referred to as "political correctness', many
AND
Clearly, language in this field is a hotch-potch of confusion.

Whiteness is the root cause of ableism – technologies of violence and surveillance used against people with disabilities originated in Eurocentric thought
Smith ‘4 [Phil, Executive Director, Vermont Developmental Disabilities Council, “Whiteness, Normal Theory, and Disability Studies”, Disability Studies Quarterly Spring 2004, Volume 24, No. 2, http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/491/668]

This point, that ableism is created by those who define themselves as able-
AND
broad disability studies approach if either whiteness or ability is to be reconceptualized.

=ITS Aff= 
==Add Ons== 

===2AC Cloud Computing=== 
ITS and IT are key to cloud computing improvements – server farms.
Waltz and King, ‘9 [7/29/09, David L. Waltz is a Director of the Center for Computational Learning Systems (CCLS) at Columbia University since 2003. He was formerly President of the NEC Research Institute in Princeton, John L. King works at the School of Information at the University of Michigan, “Information Technology and America’s Energy Future”, Version 8: July 29, 2009]
ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems) can leverage IT for VII in which vehicles and
AND
and tokomak fusion energy projects Climate modeling Climate engineering (potential emergency interventions).

Cloud computing is key to solve asteroid strikes – space situational awareness.
Johnston et al 9-Steven Johnston, Associate professor at University of South Florida, Kenji Takeda, Solutions Architect and Technical Manager for the Microsoft Research Connections EMEA team, Hugh Lewis, Phd, Professor at Southampton, Simon Cox Director of the Microsoft Institute of High Performance Computing at the University of Southampton and Graham Swinerd PhDm“Cloud Computing for Planetary Defense” October 2009 http://www.mendeley.com/research/cloud-computing-for-planetary-defense/)
In this paper we demonstrate how a cloud-based computing architecture
AND
and impact analysis to help improve planetary defencs capability for all.

Asteroids are an existential threat – ignorance of the inevitable leads to extinction.
Brownfield ‘4 - (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)
Once upon a time there was a Big Bang... Cause/Effect - Cause
AND
” in favor of rational random inevitable expectation... and its attendant fear.

===2AC Cyber Terror=== 
Cyber attacks are coming – upgrading our infrastructure is key
Clark and Levin 9 – valedictorian at West Point, awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to
United States' Electronic Defenses, November/Decmber 2009. Foreign Affairs)//DHirsch
Adversaries planning cyberattacks on the United States enjoy two other advantages. The first,
AND
approach to cybersecurity will require rebalancing fixed systems with dynamic, responsive infrastructure.

Cyber attacks cause escalatory great power nuclear war – independently causes accidental launch
Fritz, 9 – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

===2AC Food Prices=== 
Will be passed on in food prices – razor thin margins.
Plungis 2011
Jeff, Food Prices Would Rise With U.S. Truck Rule, Executive Says, Bloomberg, November 30, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-30/food-prices-would-rise-with-u-s-truck-hour-rule-executive-says.html
U.S. consumers would pay higher food prices under a proposed regulation limiting
AND
have to be passed on to customers in the form of higher prices.”

US prices matter globally – major exporter. Drought proves.
Smith 2012
Aaron, CNN Money, U.S. drought drives up food prices worldwide, August 9 2012, http://money.cnn.com/2012/08/09/news/economy/food-prices-index/index.htm
Food is a major U.S. export, so the drought affects prices
AND
analyst at financial information firm Sageworks. "Corn is in almost everything."

The impact is nuclear war---diplomacy can’t solve
Vatikiotis 8 Michael Vatikiotis is Asia regional director for the Geneva-based Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, “A hungry world tests
skills of peacemakers,” May, http://fr.hdcentre.org/files/A%20hungry%20world%20tests%20skills%20of%20peacemakers.pdf
WAR and hunger are inseparable: Experience has shown the close relationship between economic distress
AND
, and solutions must be found that address both elite and popular grievances.

===2AC Slow Growth=== 
Slow growth makes the US uncooperative and desperate – leads lashout
Goldstein 7 - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for
AND
the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

==Topicality== 
===2AC T Maintenance=== 
Investment involves maintaining or increasing transportation
CBO 8 (Federal Congressional Budget Office Primary congressional agency charged with reviewing congressional budgets and other legislative initiatives with budgetary implications, Federal Capital Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, 5/08, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/91xx/doc9135/05-16-infrastructure.pdf)//EM
For mass transit and water transportation, the best estimate of investment to maintain current
AND
, future increases in investment might or might not be targeted to that purpose

===2AC T Transportation Infrastructure=== 
We meet – the plan invests in transportation infrastructure.
Map-21, ‘12 [Committee Reports, 112th Congress (2011-2012), House Report 112-557, “House Report 112-557 - MAP-21 CONFERENCE REPORT TO ACCOMPANY H.R. 4348” http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/cpquery/ &dbname=cp112&sid=cp112X92ov&refer=&r_n=hr557.112&item=&&&sel=TOC_1554942&]
SEC. 52001. RESEARCH, TECHNOLOGY, AND EDUCATION. Section 501 of title
AND
; and `(D) the communications requirements associated with the information flows.

C/I Transportation Infrastructure means investment in assets that facilitate transit
AJA, ’11 [“American Jobs Act”, 9/12/11, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]
(9) INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- (A) IN GENERAL- The term `
AND
, including high-speed rail. (ix) Freight rail systems.

==Disadvantages== 
===2AC Generic Spending DA=== 

Weak industrial output means double dip coming now
Spicer, 9/4 [Sep 4 2012, Jonathan Spicer, “Manufacturing another headache for U.S. economy”, http://www.reuters.com/assets/print?aid=USBRE8830MA20120904]
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Manufacturing in the United States shrank at its sharpest
AND
halting numbers, and we're not seeing just a strong indicator of growth."

ITS would trade off with other funding
GAO, ’05 [September 2005, Government Accountability Office, “HIGHWAY CONGESTION: Intelligent Transportation Systems’ Promise for Managing Congestion Falls Short, and DOT Could Better Facilitate Their Strategic Use”, September 2005. http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d05943.pdf]
According to transportation officials we spoke with, one barrier to ITS deployment is that
AND
decision makers are increasingly giving priority to highway investments that preserve the existing infrastructure

ITS pays for itself— Congestion reduction is key to business productivity—allows greater accessibility and generates tax revenue
Hartgen and Fields ‘9 [David T. Hartgen, Ph.D., P.E. is Emeritus Professor of Transportation Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The author of more than 300 studies on transportation policy and planning, he established UNC Charlotte’s Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in 1989 and now conducts research in transportation policy and planning. M. Gregory Fields is a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte pursuing a Ph.D. in georgraphy and urban-regional analysis. He earned his B.S. from the U.S. Military Academy and M.A. from Webster University in St. Louis and UNC Charlotte. “Gridlock and Growth: The Effect of Traffic Congestion on Regional Economic Performance,” Reason Foundation 2009 http://www.hartgengroup.net/Projects/National/USA/cong_region_performance/2009-06-22_Final_Summary_PS371.pdf]
The study also found that a 10 percent worsening in CBD accessibility would decrease regional
AND
people come to malls and universities from work sites, not from home.

===2AC Inflation DA=== 
No impact to inflation—Federal Reverse solves
Meyer 11-- an economic consultant, was a governor of the Federal Reserve from 1996 to 2002 (Lawrence H., 3/25, “Inflated Worries”, The New York Times, LexisNexis Academic) EL
There are two fundamental measures of inflation: overall (or ''headline'') inflation and
AND
maintain its credibility on inflation. You can take that to the bank.

===2AC Private Crowd Out DA=== 
More efficient infrastructure generates greater private sector investment—weak infrastructure means that private sector activity can’t be utilized—leads to crowding in that outweighs crowding out
Han, ’12 [February 2012, Xue Han is a Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html]
The one most important reason for the tremendous benefits that infrastructure investment would bring along
AND
reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and thus the environmental barriers to economic growth.

===2AC Downgrade DA=== 
Downgrades don’t matter- isn’t perceived
Khimm 6/21 [6/21/12, Suzy Khimm is Reporter for the Washington Post, covering the intersection of people, politics, and economic policy, “Do credit downgrades matter? Flip a coin”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/06/21/do-credit-downgrades-matter-flip-a-coin/]
The threat of a credit downgrade to a country typically spurs panic and dire warnings
AND
have largely fallen in the U.K. since the February downgrade:

Investor confidence is resilient
Tymoigne, ’10 [7/30/10, Eric Tymoigne, Ph.D. is Assistant Professor of Economics at Lewis and Clark College and Research Associate at The Levy Economics Institute, “The CBO’s Misplaced Fear of a Looming Fiscal Crisis,” Wall Street Pit, http://wallstreetpit.com/37891-the-cbos-misplaced-fear-of-a-looming-fiscal-crisis]
A government with a sovereign currency (i.e. one that creates its
AND
than the one currently proposed by the CBO (see Randy’s post here).

Cuts cause downgrade – falling exports – and credit ratings are unreliable anyway
Malcolm Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Economics at Leeds University Business School, May 2012, “Fiscal austerity: the cure that makes the patient worse,” http://classonline.org.uk/docs/2012.05.20_Malcolm_Sawyer_-_the_cure_that_makes_the_patient_worse.pdf
The ‘fear of the credit rating agencies’ argument is a convenient scare tactic and
AND
made, and what actions by a government would lead to a downgrade.

No one trusts them – downgrade wouldn’t be perceived
Bloomberg News 6-18, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/austerity-doesn-t-pay-as-debt-markets-ignore-rating-cuts.html
Moody’s and S&P were already controversial after they helped fuel a global housing
AND
have any faith in them given they were part problem?” Blanchflower said.

===2AC Bond Markets DA=== 
Aff solves—Economic growth ensures that deficits decline—it’s counter-cyclical.
Wray, ’10 [3/22/10, L. Randall Wray, Professor of Economics at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, Research Director with the Center for Full Employment and Price Stability, and Senior Research Scholar at The Levy Economics Institute, with Yeva Nersisyan, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics and Math and Statistics at the University of Missouri–Kansas City, 2010 (“Neoliberal Deficit Hysteria Strikes Again,” New Economic Perspectives, March http://neweconomicperspectives.blogspot.com/2010/03/neoliberal-deficit-hysteria-strikes.html, 2010]
Indeed, robust growth reduces budget deficits by raising tax revenue and reducing
AND
The budget deficit is highly counter-cyclical, and will come down automatically when the economy recovers.

Investor confidence is resilient
Tymoigne, ’10 [7/30/10, Eric Tymoigne, Ph.D. is Assistant Professor of Economics at Lewis and Clark College and Research Associate at The Levy Economics Institute, “The CBO’s Misplaced Fear of a Looming Fiscal Crisis,” Wall Street Pit, http://wallstreetpit.com/37891-the-cbos-misplaced-fear-of-a-looming-fiscal-crisis]
A government with a sovereign currency (i.e. one that creates its
AND
than the one currently proposed by the CBO (see Randy’s post here).

All measures of business confidence go negative—leading poll proves
Tysiac, ’12 [9/6/12, Ken Tysiac, “CPAs sour on U.S. economy as election nears”, http://www.journalofaccountancy.com/News/20126363.htm]
After rising significantly at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012, CPA
AND
capital than needed and 44% said their liquidity level was about right.

===2AC Data Cooking DA=== 
Flyjberg is wrong – major methodological flaws
Osland and Strand, 10 - Institute of Transport Economics, Norway (Oddgeir and Arvid, “The Politics and Institutions of Project Approval - a Critical-Constructive Comment on the Theory of Strategic Misrepresentation”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, March, http://www.ejtir.tbm.tudelft.nl/issues/2010_01/pdf/2010_01_06.pdf)//DH

The paragraph above includes several claims that Flyvbjerg does not have the necessary empirical data
AND
should be sufficient support for the thesis that misrepresentation is the major explanation.


===2AC AT Negative Multiplier=== 
ITS is uniquely a positive 25 to 1 multiplier – empirically proven
Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]
Overall, the benefit-cost ratio of systems-operations measures (enabled by
AND
, hydrocarbon, and nitrous oxide emissions between 10 and 16 percent.73

===2AC Obama Win Bad DA=== 
Perception of transportation infrastructure spending is unpopular with the independents
Ken Orski, editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford, and JD @ Harvard Law, 2-5-2012, NewGeography, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

Specifically voters in Florida and Ohio
Jasinowski, 12
(Jerry Jasinowski, an economist and author, served as President of the National Association of Manufacturers for 14 years and later The Manufacturing Institute, Political Machine, 6/8, lexis)
Second, the attempt to recall Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, in which the Democrats
AND
deficits reduced. This will spread to other states like Ohio and Florida.

Independents key to win the Florida Election. Romney can’t win without Florida.
McMurry 6/21
Evan, Political Editor, Obama Regains Lead Over Romney In Florida Thanks To Independent Voters, On Jun 21, 2012, http://www.ology.com/post/111651/obama-regains-lead-over-romney-in-florida-thanks-to-independent-voters, Access 8/13/12
And yet still Florida voters have swung over to Obama. A new Quinnipiac poll
AND
Virginia and North Carolina. But without Florida, all this is moot.

Predicting is impossible – too many Black Swans.
Greensfield 5/1 (Jeff, 5/1/12, “Why 2012 election predictions are rubbish: Fear the Black Swan!”, Yahoo News, http://news.yahoo.com/why-2012-predictions-are-rubbish--fear-the-black-swan-.html. Mr. Greensfield is a political correspondent for Yahoo News)
You want to know who’s going to be the next president of the United States
AND
and tell me how Ohio’s going to vote, I’ll say no sooth.

====AT ObamaCare Impact==== 
Romney wont’ be able to repeal – congressional barriers
Politico ’12 (“The Republican Recipe for Repeal”, 6/29/12, Retrieved from http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0612/78002.html. Accessed 7/13/12.)
“I’ve already heard discussions that it can be done through 51 votes in the
AND
major portions, including the individual mandate, could be targeted by reconciliation.¶

===2AC Obama Win Good DA=== 
Plan won’t effect voters – minds already made up
Hellling 7/22, reporter for The Kansas City Star
(Dave, multi-media reporter for The Kansas City Star, providing videos for web, as well as regular contributions to the print edition, “People's minds are made up, unlikely to change”, Bradenton Herald, 7/22/12, accessed 7/22/12 http://www.bradenton.com/2012/07/22/4123483/peoples-minds-are-made-up-unlikely.html)
But a growing number of political scientists and campaign consultants - backed by the latest
AND
Even the 2008 economic meltdown, he noted, didn't move many voters.

Romney winning Ohio now
Sink 9/5
Poll: Romney up 3 in Ohio, best showing since June
By Justin Sink - 09/05/12 08:25 PM ET
http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/247805-poll-romney-up-three-in-ohio-best-showing-since-june
Mitt Romney has opened a 3-point lead in the pivotal swing state of
AND
than a percentage point in a public head-to-head poll.

Plan is not perceived – ONLY thing that matters is the Debate.
Granderson 2012 [LZ Granderson is a contributor to CNN; 6/22/2012; One night will decide Obama's fate; http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/22/opinion/granderson-campaign-key/index.html?c=politics]
President Barack Obama will not lose his re-election bid because of Eric Holder
AND
that would erase an image of him struggling to defend his own record?

Predicting is impossible – too many Black Swans.
Greensfield 5/1 (Jeff, 5/1/12, “Why 2012 election predictions are rubbish: Fear the Black Swan!”, Yahoo News, http://news.yahoo.com/why-2012-predictions-are-rubbish--fear-the-black-swan-.html. Mr. Greensfield is a political correspondent for Yahoo News)
You want to know who’s going to be the next president of the United States
AND
and tell me how Ohio’s going to vote, I’ll say no sooth.

Plan won’t effect voters – minds already made up
Hellling 7/22, reporter for The Kansas City Star
(Dave, multi-media reporter for The Kansas City Star, providing videos for web, as well as regular contributions to the print edition, “People's minds are made up, unlikely to change”, Bradenton Herald, 7/22/12, accessed 7/22/12 http://www.bradenton.com/2012/07/22/4123483/peoples-minds-are-made-up-unlikely.html)
But a growing number of political scientists and campaign consultants - backed by the latest
AND
Even the 2008 economic meltdown, he noted, didn't move many voters.

Obama’s Global Zero initiative destroys nuclear deterrence.
Washington Times, ‘8/24 [August 24, 2012, Oliver North, “NORTH: The Obama administration plan to disarm America”, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/aug/24/the-obama-administration-plan-to-disarm-america-nu/]
Americans following this year’s presidential campaign would never know it from mainstream media coverage,
AND
, too, is rehiring a commander in chief hellbent on unilateral disarmament.

Nuclear deterrent solves all war – this answers all their turns.
Thayer, ‘12 [February 17, 2012, Bradley A. Thayer served as a consultant to the Department of Defense and is professor of political science at Baylor University, “THAYER: Preserving our nuclear deterrence - Obama proposal for force reduction is foolhardy” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/feb/17/preserving-our-nuclear-deterrence/]
Last week’s leak from the Pentagon that the United States is considering reducing its nuclear
AND
weapons it and its allies need now and will need in the future.

Romney wins – leading in polls, wins current undecided voters – will have 320 electoral votes with large popular vote, Romney wins 9 swing states – Obama win impossible
Chambers 9/1
Mitt Romney's likely win indicated by national and swing state polls MITT ROMNEYSEPTEMBER 1, 2012BY: DEAN CHAMBERS http://www.examiner.com/article/mitt-romney-s-likely-win-indicated-by-national-and-swing-state-polls
Rasmussen Reports released both national and swing state tracking polls today that are good news
AND
today, the election of Mitt Romney as our next president looks likely.

Romney winning Ohio now
Sink 9/5
Poll: Romney up 3 in Ohio, best showing since June
By Justin Sink - 09/05/12 08:25 PM ET
http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/247805-poll-romney-up-three-in-ohio-best-showing-since-june
Mitt Romney has opened a 3-point lead in the pivotal swing state of
AND
than a percentage point in a public head-to-head poll.

Ohio key – determines the election
Schroeder 5-16
Robert, Swing county in swing state that picks presidents, MarketWatch
http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-05-16/economy/31717811_1_ohio-town-obama-credit-buckeye-state, Accessed 8/7/12
How Henline — and thousands of Ohio independents like him — ultimately vote is of
AND
class voters Obama and Romney will need to win across Ohio and beyond.

====AT Russia Relations Impact==== 
Financial crisis strengthens Russian hardliners—makes war more likely
Gjelten, NPR, ‘9 (Tom, February 19, “Downturn Raises Risk of Global Financial Warfare” http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=100832254)
Worries About Eastern Europe. Another critical area is Eastern Europe. Governments from Poland
AND
I think it's reinforced a reflexive anti-American view," Gordon said

====AT Iran Strikes Impact==== 
If Romney is elected, Israel will still not strike Iran
Haaretz 6/19 (the world's leading English-language Website for real-time news and analysis of Israel and the Middle East, 6/19/12, “Romney could prevail on Israel not to attack Iran”, http://www.haaretz.com/opinion/romney-could-prevail-on-israel-not-to-attack-iran.premium-1.437226)
Benjamin Netanyahu acts, first and foremost, like a member of the right-
AND
interest in inheriting an America that has been sucked into an Israeli war.

No retaliation, war, or regional conflict
Bronner, ‘12 (Ethan, NYT staff reporter, 1/26/12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/27/world/middleeast/israelis-see-irans-threats-of-retaliation-as-bluff.html?_r=1&hp, JD)
JERUSALEM — Israeli intelligence estimates, backed by academic studies, have cast doubt on
AND
Qaddafi or Saddam Hussein if they had a nuclear capability? No way.”

===2AC Jackson Vanik DA=== 
Won’t pass – gridlock and human rights violations
Guvovsky 9/3 [2012, Dina, Reporter for the Examiner, “Russia joins the WTO: Now what for U.S.-Russia trade relations?” Examiner, WTO, http://www.examiner.com/article/russia-joins-the-wto-now-what-for-u-s-russia-trade-relations]
On the American side, Congress has yet to act leaving companies like Deere,
AND
option in the context of US-Russia relations as they are today.

No agenda before the election.
Ichniowski 9/10 Tom Ichniowski, Pre-Election Capitol Hill Agenda Is Thin, 09/10/2012
http://enr.construction.com/policy/washington_observer/2012/0910-pre-election-hill-agenda-is-thin.asp
As the House and Senate return from their August recess, little action is expected
AND
"They can see they need to be home campaigning," he says.

Plan is biapartisan.
The Hill 11 (Keith Laing, journalist who has covered government and politics at the local, state and national levels. He currently works for The Hill newspaper in Washington, D.C., where he covers transportation policy in Congress, “Smart technologies will improve transportation, save money, lawmakers say”, 3/29/11, http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/highways-bridges-and-roads/152529-smart-technologies-will-improve-transportation-save-money-lawmakers-say)
A bipartisan pair of lawmakers on Tuesday announced a bill to create six pilot "
AND
congressmen said the bill was supported by transportation, business and environmental groups.

Polcap doesn’t affect Jackson Vanik
Van Susteren 7/9 [Greta Van Susteren, writer for Fox News Insider “Does this bother you? Am I wrong?” July 9th, 2012 http://gretawire.foxnewsinsider.com/2012/07/09/does-this-bother-you-am-i-wrong/ SMerchant]
Are you aware of the fact that the Members of the House, the Senate
AND
lame duck session. Will they? Should they? Am I wrong?
Hegemony prevents US-Russia war.
Kagan 7 – Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10
In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene —
AND
which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.

Political Capital theory is false – congressional factors determine legislative success
Andres, ’10 [Gary Andres, prominent conservative columnist, industry lobbyist and former White House aide for the Bush Administration, July 22, 2010, “Obama and Legislative Power”, http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/obama-and-legislative-power?page=2,SM]
The news media hailed President Obama’s victory on the Wall Street reform bill signed into
AND
from now, no one is going to be making analogies to LBJ.

===2AC Russia Econ Food Prices DA=== 
Russia and the Ukraine are non-unique
Terazono 4/18—Financial Times online commodities editor. (Emiko, “Russian crop damage worries lift wheat”, The Financial Times, March 18th, 2012, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6a612434-a0f8-11e1-aac1-00144feabdc0.html#ixzz20G8H6QDr)/chm
Fears of crop damage in Russia due to dry weather supported wheat prices, with
AND
will become a lot looser towards the end of 2012,” he said.

==Counterplans== 
===2AC States CP=== 
Cant solve – multiple local control points cause conflicting priorities that undermine coordination.
GAO ’12 - US Government Accountability Office (March 2012. “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS Improved DOT Collaboration and Communication Could Enhance the Use of Technology to Manage Congestion”, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589430.pdf)
As mentioned earlier, in highly congested metropolitan areas, ITS systems tend to be
AND
, cities operating the traffic lights could not afford to modify their systems.

Perm solves – States need federal involvement.
ITIF No Date [Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (non-partisan research and educational institute – a think tank – whose mission is to formulate and promote public policies to advance technological innovation and productivity internationally) “Congress should repurpose transportation funds to intelligent transportation systems, in part by tying federal surface transportation funding to states’ actual improvements in transportation system performance.” http://www.itif.org/content/congress-should-repurpose-transportation-funds-intelligent-transportation-systems-part-tying]
Given intelligent transportation systems’ (ITS) ability to maximize the capacity of existing highway
AND
to deploy the intelligent transportation systems delivering the greatest bang for the buck.

Solvency Deficit – States don’t share data – undermines cohesion of program and
Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]
The picture was not much better with regard to the dissemination of real-time
AND
common Web site on traffic conditions and travel time on I-95.)

Congestion DA – jurisdictional boundaries cause conflicting priorities
GAO ’12 - US Government Accountability Office (March 2012. “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS Improved DOT Collaboration and Communication Could Enhance the Use of Technology to Manage Congestion”, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589430.pdf)
As mentioned earlier, in highly congested metropolitan areas, ITS systems tend to be
AND
, cities operating the traffic lights could not afford to modify their systems.

RELEGATING POWER TO THE STATES TO CHECK INSTITUTIONAL RACISM IS DISATROUS
Historical legacy of OPPRESSION and DISCRIMINATION at state level has not been RELEGATED to the annals of ancient history PARTICULARLY in Welfare Reform cases.
Stanford Journal of Civil Rights & Civil Liberties 6
[Aug 2006, "Arizona's Proposition 200 and the Supremacy of Federal Law: Elements of Law, Politics, and Faith"]
Though not a major problem given the political legitimacy and responsiveness of state government vis
AND
The civic harms associated with returning power to the states cannot be disregarded as historically contingent. Such harms persist today.

===2AC R&D Tax Credit CP=== 
CP kills the economy
Bhidé 10, Professor at Tuffts university, 2010 (Amar, 9/11/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704644404575481534193344088.html, “ Don't Expect Much From the R&D Tax Credit” TG)
President Barack Obama has called for making the on-again, off-again
AND
provide evenhanded incentives for all to pursue the opportunities they find most promising.

Congestion is inevitable and will drag our economy – congestion relief measures are the only way to create sustainable growth
Stahley ’12 [Samuel R Staley is a PhD senior research fellow at Reason Foundation. “Traffic Congestion and the Economic Decline of Cities,” 1/5/12, http://reason.org/news/show/traffic-congestion-and-the-economic]
As the economic recovery continues to lag, one of the nation's job killers,
AND
shouldn't lose sight of this when creating jobs and keeping America's cities productive.

==Kritiks== 
===2AC Synoptic Delusion K=== 
Individuals can’t always make rational calculations, and the free market won’t be able to sustain order without government oversight.
Koopman 09- Professor of Philosophy at the University of Oregon (Colin, "Morals and Markets: Liberal Democracy Through Dewey and Hayek." The Journal of Speculative Philosophy. 1/1/09. Project Muse.)//TD
Their claim is that the pursuit of rightly understood self-interest within a free
AND
and many others in between has yet to fully reckon with this problem.

===2AC Positive Peace K=== 
War turns structural violence
Goldstein 1—Prof PoliSci @ American University, Joshua, War and Gender , P. 412
First, peace activists face a dilemma in thinking about causes of war and working
AND
on injustice as the main cause of war seems to be empirically inadequate.

Preventing nuclear war is the absolute prerequisite to positive peace
Folk 78, Professor of Religious and Peace Studies at Bethany College, [Jerry, “Peace Educations—Peace Studies : Towards an Integrated Approach,” Peace & Change, volume V, number 1, Spring, p. 58]
Those proponents of the positive peace approach who reject out of hand the work of
AND
who view the field essentially from the point of view of negative peace.

Action oriented civic participation requires youth education about transportation policy—
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]

Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007).
AND
associated with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

===2AC Race K=== 
Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equality
Cummiskey ‘90
David, Professor of Philosophy, Bates, Kantian Consequentialism, Ethics 100.3, p 601-2, p 606, jstor
We must not obscure the issue by characterizing this type of case as the sacrifice
AND
consideration of conduct, one's own subjective concerns do not have overriding importance.

Moral absolutism is complicity with violence – it allows people to die for the sake of clean hands
Isaac, 2002
(Jeffrey C., James H. Rudy professor of Political Science and director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life at Indiana University, Bloomington, “Ends, Means and politics,” Dissent, Spring)
As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah
AND
not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.

Heg solves the impact to your k
Gitlin 3. Todd Gitlin, Writer for Mother Jones, an Investigative Activist Organization, 7/14/2003 ("Goodbye, New World Order: Keep the Global Ideal Alive" - MotherJones.Com) http://www.motherjones.com/commentary/gitlin/2003/07/we_478_01.html
The point is that this would be a terrible time to give up on internationalism
AND
international law with enforcers; not empire, but human rights with guns.

Framework – Action oriented civic participation requires youth education about transportation policy—
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]

Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007).
associated with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

Changing transportation policy requires a more active citizenry
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]

Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

Turn Racial Pragmatism
A. Their discourse as the state being racist justifies the exclusion of blacks from institutional engagement
WOODSON founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 1933
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.83-84
Not long ago a measure was introduced in a certain State Legislature to have the
AND
to conform to the policy of “keeping the Negro in his place.”

B. This is discussion is necessary for effective black engagement in politics
WOODSON founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 1933
Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.94-95
Even the few Negroes who are elected to office are often similarly uninformed and show
AND
internal improvements, labor arbitration, the tariff, and the merchant marine.

The state is the only thing that can effectively solve racism
Franklin 1993
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 45
Neither the courts nor the Congress nor the president can declare by fiat, resolution
AND
it and, indeed, would be horrified if we even approached it.

THE AIM OF LIBERATION MUST BE POLITICAL SEEKING CONTROL OF THE STATE
Franklin 1993
John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p.73-74
We now live in an age when the role of government is inevitably important whether
AND
of nation about which so many of us have dreamed but never realized.

Turn: The affirmative presents a discourse of white supremacy and then attempts to use it as a tool to counter the very thing. It is these CONTRADICTIONS which give racist ideology its FLEXIBILITY and power.
NAKAYAMA Asst Prof, Dept of Communication @ Arizona State Univ. & KRIZEK Asst Prof, Dept of Communication @ St. Louis Univ. 1995 Thomas K. -& Robert L.-; “WHITENESS: A Strategic Rhetoric”; QUATERLY JOURNAL OF SPEECHn81, 291-309
Whether or not one discursively positions oneself as “white,” there is little
AND
yet resilient as ever. This also has significant implications for communication researchers.

Economic decline turns the imapct
Friedman 5 – Professor of Economics @ Harvard
Ben, professor of economics at Harvard, Meltdown: A Case Study, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200507/friedman
Would it really be so bad if living standards in the United States stagnated—
AND
in practically every aspect of daily life, together with appalling racial violence.

===2AC Cap K=== 
Cap is inevitable – crisis cements it
Zakaria , B.A. from Yale and a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard , managing editor of Foreign Affairs, the widely circulated journal of international politics and economics at newsweek , 6-15-‘9 (Fareed , “The Return of Capitalism” , http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/06/15/AR2009061502733.html , )
Yet recently, even though we've nationalized no banks and undergone no grand reinvention of
AND
, this will prove to be not a recovery but a brief reprieve.

Framework – Action oriented civic participation requires youth education about transportation policy—
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]

Education is essential to the development of engaged citizens (O’Neill 2007).
AND
bike rack or petitioning for a bus shelter in front of their school.
These examples show that educating young people about the political processes associated with transportation can change their perceptions and encourage action-oriented civic participation.

Changing transportation policy requires a more active citizenry
Thomas, ’08 [Summer 2008, Critical Planning, Ren Thomas is a doctoral student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning”, http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf]

Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

Growth is sustainable and resilient – capitalism finds new ways to survive and grow
Flood 2005 (Andrew Flood, “Civilisation, Primitivism, and anarchism, libcom.org, http://anarchistnews.org/?q=node/200)
Primitivists are not the only ones to use the rhetoric of catastrophe to panic people
AND
it flourished as starvation allowed wages to be driven down and profits soared.

Cap solves war—causes economic, not military competition
Gartzke 5—Former associate prof of pol sci, Columbia. Former associate prof of pol sci, USCD. PhD in International Relations, Formal/Quantitative Methods from U Iowa (Erik, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 1 October 2005, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133)
With terrorism achieving "global reach" and conflict raging in Africa and the Middle
AND
anti-market activists may distract the developed nations from this historic opportunity.

Cap is critical to space development
Ashworth, 10
(Stephen, academic publishing at Oxford, December 18, http://www.astronist.demon.co.uk/space-age/essays/Sociology2.html)
However, in order for interplanetary growth to occur in the first place, an
AND
, however, has a vested interest in preserving and extending gains made.

Constructive development of space solves their war impacts – the AFF is key
Collins and Autino, ‘10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)
The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been
AND
been taught that they cannot travel in space are another enormous wasted resource.

====1AR AT Environment==== 
Capitalism shields the environment – 8 warrants
Norberg 3 – MA in History
Johan Norberg, Fellow at Timbro, MA with a focus in economics and philosophy, In Defense of Global Capitalism, p. 225-237
All over the world, economic progress and growth are moving hand in hand with
AND
construction and heating of cattle pens for the purpose of native meat production.

Resource scarcity is self correcting
Haynes 2008 (Beth Haynes, Professor of Economics at Brigham Young University-Hawaii, “Finite Resources vs. Infinite Resourcefulness”, 8/19/08 http://wealthisnottheproblem.blogspot.com/2008/08/finite-resources-vs-infinite.html)
Our consumption is excessive. If we continue to consume our natural resources, there
AND
been with us since ancient times and they have consistently been proven wrong.

====1AR AT Cap Morals Bad==== 
Our epistemology is best.
Weede 2004 (Erich, professor of sociology at the University of Bonn, Germany, In Winter 1986-87, he was Visiting Professor of International Relations at the Bologna Center of The Johns Hopkins University, “BALANCE OF POWER, GLOBALIZATION, AND THE CAPITALIST PEACE,” http://www.fnf.org.ph/downloadables/Balance%20of%20Power,%20Globalization%20and%20Capitalist%20Peace.pdf)
If one does research or summarize the research of others – of course, most
AND
hodgepodge of ambiguous hunches, contradictory thinking, and unsystematically evaluated empirical evidence.

That’s the best way to make economic predictions
DOUGLAS W. HANDS 84 Department of Economics University of Puget Sound What Economics Is Not: An Economist's Response to Rosenberg Source: Philosophy of Science, Vol. 51, No. 3 (Sep., 1984), pp. 495-503 http://www.jstor.org/stable/187496
1. Economic Predictions. Much of Rosenberg's discussion is directed toward explaining the "
AND
its predictive failings are not as great as Rosenberg would have us believe.

Capitalism is the only moral economic system – morality only thrives in a state of freedom
Billings, 83
(Donald B., Professor of Economics at Boise State University, The Freeman: Ideas on Liberty, “The Moral Case for Competitive Capitalism”, July, http://www.fee.org/vnews.php?nid=1277)
<Following the lead of the economist Benjamin Rogge, it is in fact the
AND
other systems in varying degrees treat men as less than this.[12]>


===2AC Virilio K=== 
No impact to speed.
Thrift 5 — Nigel Thrift, Head of the Division of Life and Environmental Sciences and Professor of Geography at the University of Oxford, 2005 (“Panicsville: Paul Virilio and the Esthetic of Disaster,” Cultural Politics, Volume 1, Issue 3, November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via SocINDEX, p. 357)
Than take speed. I have shown in numerous papers, as have many commentators
AND
dislodgeable—but that doesn't mean that philosophers have to power it up.

Fast is good – it creates an inclusive community for more democratic deliberation
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
But while there are still threats to world peace and even human survival from the
AND
road to a computopia of information, entertainment, affluence, and democracy.

Alt fails – no method for being implemented into society and it condemns technology
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
Virilio misses a key component of the drama of technology in the present age and
AND
proliferating and changing every aspect of society and culture in the present era.

The alt causes fascism—the permutation doesn’t.
Connolly 2k — William E. Connolly, Professor and Chair of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, 2000 (“Speed, Concentric Cultures, and Cosmopolitanism,” Political Theory, Volume 28, Number 5, October, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 598)
Speed can be dangerous. At a certain point of acceleration, it jeopardizes freedom
AND
the positive potentialities of speed while working to attenuate its most dangerous effects.

The impact is scapegoating and violence.
Connolly 2 — William E. Connolly, Professor and Chair of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, 2002 (“Democracy and Time,” Neuropolitics: Thinking, Culture, Speed, Published by the University of Minnesota Press, ISBN0816640211, p. 161-162)
My wager is that it is more possible to negotiate a democratic ethos congruent with
AND
the best orientation to adopt toward the contemporary nexus between speed and democracy.

We can check expert epistemology
Quick and Zhao, ’11 [October 2011, Kathryn S. Quick and Zhirong Jerry Zhao @ The Humphrey School of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota, “Suggested Design and Management Techniques for Enhancing Public Engagement in Transportation Policymaking”]
The technical complexity inherent in transportation service planning, financing, and infrastructure development presents
AND
credibility of the agency or policy decisions [64,65,34].

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]