= = 
[[toc]]
=Immigration Reform= 


=Oil= 
**Oil prices are high as of now** 
**Nasdaq 1/8**/13-- [[http://www.nasdaq.com/article/oil-prices-hit-threemonth-high-cm205305#.UQZhi781nQg|http://www.nasdaq.com/article/oil-prices-hit-threemonth-high-cm205305#.UQZhi781nQg]])
Have you noticed prices ...coming months. 

**INSERT LINK** 

**High prices cause a shift to renewable energy.** 
**Yetiv 6** (Steven A., Professor of political science and international studies at Old Dominion University, America benefits from high oil prices, February 6th, <span style="line-height: 1.5;">http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060206/news_mz1e6yetiv.html)</span>
From Wall Street to Main Street, people hate high oil prices because they cause economic pain. But like coffee, red wine, and perhaps even chocolate, high oil prices can do some good too. Current energy legislation... when oil starts to dwindle in the future. 

**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**
**Deibel ‘7** (Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, there is one major existential threat ... existence of life on this planet.

=Fiscal Cliff= 
**Grand bargain on the fiscal cliff now – political capital k2 compromise**
**CBS 11/30** -- Brian Montopoli, senior political reporter at CBSNews.com (2012, "Obama taking "fiscal cliff" fight to the public," http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57556312/obama-taking-fiscal-cliff-fight-to-the-public/)

Mr. Obama's trip is an attempt... required to agree with us."

**Plan costs capital --- it’s massively unpopular.**
**[insert link]**

**Sequestration kills the Asian pivot --- it creates the perception that the U.S. is weak.**
**Domenici, et. al, June 2012** (Pete – Former Chairman, U.S. Senate Budget Committee; Co-Chair, BPC’s Debt Reduction Task Force; Senior Fellow, BPC, Secretary Dan Glickman – Former U.S. Agriculture Secretary; Former Chairman, U.S. House Select Intelligence Committee; Senior Fellow, BPC, General James Jones – Former National Security Advisor; Former Commander, U.S. European Command; Senior Fellow, BPC, Indefensible: The Sequester’s Mechanics and the Adverse Effects on National and Economic Security, Task Force on Defense Budget and Strategy, Bipartisan Policy Center, p. 20-24)
The FY 2013 sequester... feel pressured to accommodate China’s growing ambitions.

**Engagement in Asia prevents multiple scenarios of nuclear war.**
**Colby, 8/10/2011** (Elbridge – research analyst at the Center for Naval Analysis, Why US Needs its Liberal Empire, The Diplomat, Why US needs its Liberal Empire, p. http://the-diplomat.com/2011/08/10/why-us-needs-its-liberal-empire/?all=true)
But the pendulum shouldn’t... light of rising regional security challenges.
=Hagel= 
**Hagel will get confirmed now, but it’s close – new controversy derails passage**
**Reuters 1-15** (“Chuck Hagel's Chances of Confirmation Improve,” Jewish Daily Forward, 2013, http://forward.com/articles/169341/chuck-hagels-chances-of-confirmation-improve/)
Former Republican Senator Chuck ...members to win confirmation.

**Plan costs political capital - partisanship, competing priorities, and no neccessity**
**Bowman 13** “Transport Funding 2: Gridlock on the Congressional Gridiron” Robert J. Bowman; SupplyChainBrain; January 02, 2013 [[http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/]]
The holidays are supposed... the endless appropriations battle.

**Capital is key to get the confirmation through**
**Politico, 1/6**/2013 (Chuck Hagel takes fire from Capitol Hill, p. [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/01/chuck-hagel-takes-fire-from-capitol-hill-85805.html]])
Senate Democrats and... the finish line. Dems will hate this.”

**Hagel bolsters Obama’s foreign policy --- prevents war with Iran.**
**McGovern, 1/2**/2013 (Ray – former Army officer and veteran of the CIA’s analysis division, Obama needs Hagel in the Pentagon, Baltimore Sun, p. http://articles.baltimoresun.com/2013-01-02/news/bs-ed-hagel-20130102_1_pentagon-generals-robert-mcnamara)
During his first year,.... two purple hearts to prove it.

**Iran strikes escalates to a nuclear world war.**
**Chossudovsky**, 12/26/2011 (Michel, Preparing to attack Iran with Nuclear Weapons, Global Research, p. http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=28355)
An attack on ... the Middle East.
=Nanotech= 
**NNI is funded under the Fiscal Year 2013 budget**
**Roco 12** [M.C., “National Nanotechnology Investment in the FY 2013 Budget”, American Society of Mechanical Engineers. [[http://www.aaas.org/spp/rd/rdreport2013/13pch23.pdf]], 8/19] Eu-Chae
The FY 2013 President’s Request ... 2020” (M.C. Roco, C. Mirkin, M. Hersam, eds.).

**R&D budgets cannot expand- it requires direct trade-off**
**CRS** Congressional Research Service **6/21** “Federal Research and Development Funding: FY2012,” John F. Sargent, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy, June 21 2012
President Obama ...s to address priorities.

**Nanotech solve for biggest priority-asteroids**
**Burch 7** (John Burch is an engineer, owning the website nanofuture2030. He has proposed many projects dealing with the future of nanotech [[http://www.nanofuture2030.com/?p=39]]) EuChae
Let’s assume we have limited nanofactory ... in a short time.

**The impact is extinction**
**McGUIRE 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance ... little about a new comet heading in our direction.
=Coercion= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coercively funded policies tradeoff with more productive voluntary solutions and must be rejected</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Younkins, 2000** (Dr. Edward W. Younkins, Professor of Accountancy and Business Administration at Wheeling Jesuit University in West Virginia, “Civil Society: The Realm of Freedom,” No 63, 6-10-2000, [[http://www.quebecoislibre.org/000610-11.htm]], )</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recently (and ironically), government... and politicians « solve » our problems and run our lives.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Every instance of coercion brings us closer to tyranny and must be rejected</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Browne 95**, former Libertarian presidential candidate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Harry, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, Why Government Doesn’t Work, pg 66-67) *edited for gendered language</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The reformers of the Cambodian... of all the failed government programs that came before.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freedom comes before all other impacts</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sylvester **Petro**, professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring **1974**, Toledo Law Review, p480</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, one may still insist... with undying spirit.</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cyberattacks </span>= 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Status quo radars are resistant to jamming and spoofing, but NextGen technology is uniquely vulnerable – attacks cause miscalc which escalates – independently turns case</span>**

Andy **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Greenberg</span>**, July 25th, **20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>** (Forbes Staff, “Next-Gen Air Traffic Control Vulnerable to Hackers Spoofing Planes Out of Thin Air,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/andygreenberg/2012/07/25/next-gen-air-traffic-control-vulnerable-to-hackers-spoofing-planes-out-of-thin-air/ >:)



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Next-Gen Air Traffic Control …</span> surprised no one has done it yet.”



**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">And cyberterrorism independently causes nuclear use through accident or miscalculation</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fritz, 9</span>** – researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University (Jason, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)



This paper will … control centres directly.

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elections </span>= 
**Obama wins now**
**Silver 9-5 [**Nate Silver – graduated from U Chicago, an AUTHORITY on election analysis for the New York Times and overall badass, “The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite”, September 5th, 2012, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/05/sept-4-the-simple-case-for-why-obama-is-the-favorite/]]]
But since Mr. Romney’s ... that Mr. Obama is the favorite.
**[INSERT LINK]**
**Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations**
**Weir, 3/27**/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])
Russian experts say there's ... the reset will continue."
**US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war**
**Allison & Blackwill 11**
[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]]
That central point is that ... transnational terrorist groups.