= = 
[[toc]]
=**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biopower K</span>**= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Inf. is a means to control the means and ends of the entire population** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Duvall and Havercroft 8** (Raymond Duvall, PhD and Master’s from Northwestern in IR, Professor of Critical International Relations at the University of Minnesota, Jonathan Havercroft, PhD from University of Minnesota, Professor in Political Science at the University of Oklahoma, “Taking sovereignty out of this world: space weapons and empire of the future.”, in Review of International Studies, vol 34)Social structures of domination have substantial reproductive capacities that can be examined to draw probabilistic conclusions regarding the future </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In examining constitutive … state’s ‘hard shell’.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That constitutes a state in which legal order is indistinguishable from bare life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dean, 04** – professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle (Mitchell, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, [[http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)//HK]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fourth thesis: Bio-politics… and systems of justice.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to vote negative in favor of critique before action—we accept power as inevitable and potentially productive but only powerful analysis of domination can challenge current discourses and act as a pre-requisite to action</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Flyvbjerg and Richardson 2**—Aalborg University, Department of Development and Planning AND Department of Town and Regional Planning(Bent Flyvbjerg and Tim Richardson, “Planning and Foucault In Search of the Dark Side of Planning Theory” [[http://flyvbjerg.plan.aau.dk/DarkSide2.pdf]], nkj)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Towards Foucault Instead… conflict versus consensus.</span>


=**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security K</span>**= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Framing governmental support for infrastructure in terms of security authorizes violent mechanisms of disciplinary control, framing humanity in terms of logistical life while destroying the quality of life and instantiating the wholesale destruction of entire populations.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Reid 8** (Julian – lecturer in International Relations at King’s College, visiting professor in International Relations at the University of Lapland, “Conclusion: The Biopolitics of Critical Infrastructure Protection,” Securing ‘the Homeland:’ Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (In)Security, Ed. Myriam Dunn Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, p. 178-179)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Therefore, the contemporary reification... for the further exploration of such a line of questioning.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Enframing of national security is a pre-requisite to macropolitical violence</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Burke 7** (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My argument here... Will our thought?</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Introna K</span>= 
**Transportation infrastructure separates us from technology and nature – this division makes anthropocentric value systems possible and ensures a control-oriented approach to the world.**
**Edwards, 2002** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">(Paul N., Professor of Information @ University of Michigan Department of History, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, Eds. Philip Brey, Arie Rip, and Andrew Feenberg, MIT Press, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems”)</span>
**Their framing of existence in terms of human value creates the world as standing reserve and legitimizes endless genocide – the only way to escape this cycle is to vote negative to affirm the infinite value of all forms of Alterity**
**Introna 9** – Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” Theory, Culture & Society 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46)
In the ethics of hybrids ... ethos of letting-be of all beings.

=Guilt K= 
**Anti-Western rhetoric stems from an ontology of guilt – it is not objective and trivializes atrocities committed by non-Western peoples**
**Bruckner, 10** (Pascal, French writer and public intellectual, maître de conférences at the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and collaborator at the Nouvel Observateur. “The Tyranny of Guilt: An Essay on Western Masochism” p. 1-3)
A great city in northern Europe ...meddles in everything.

**The ontology of guilt causes us to hate ourselves – the world becomes a morality play where the Exploitative Westerner preys upon the Helpless and Innocent Other. This self-hatred replicates racism and makes progressive reform impossible**
**Bruckner, 10** (Pascal, French writer and public intellectual, maître de conférences at the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and collaborator at the Nouvel Observateur. “The Tyranny of Guilt: An Essay on Western Masochism” p. 102)
One part of the world... the human family?

**Western guilt causes genocide – our obsession with atoning for past wrongs prevents us from intervening in massacres**
**Bruckner, 10** (Pascal, French writer and public intellectual, maître de conférences at the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and collaborator at the Nouvel Observateur. “The Tyranny of Guilt: An Essay on Western Masochism” p. 96)
All these ancient stones, in ...feel obliged to justify ourselves to anyone.

**The alternative is pride in Western values – we should view history as a source of moral progress rather than an invocation to atone for past wrongs – the impact is extinction**
**Bruckner, 10** (Pascal, French writer and public intellectual, maître de conférences at the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and collaborator at the Nouvel Observateur. “The Tyranny of Guilt: An Essay on Western Masochism” p. 219)
No power can destroy ...one that is indispensable for the survival of humanity.