[[toc]]
=Bering Strait Negative= 
==ACRL PIC== 
===1NC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should issue land grants for the development of a rail corridor for a rail link to Eurasia.**

**Solves the aff**
**Barry 11** (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, D, “M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">West Coast American and Canadian ports are highly congested</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span>//a rail// 
//AND//
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Yakutsk to the Bering Strait would invigorate (and populate) this region.</span>

**Alaska is distinct – the plan involves that**
**Barry 11** (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, D, “M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)

//An Alaska Canada Rail Link as the First Stage in a Bering Strait Crossing////<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>//
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">in net public benefits such as increased employment over the next five decades.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 7pt;">2NC Competition (we also have pictures)</span>=== 

**The term “Bering strait” however INCLUDES the ACRL**

**Dr. Cooper and Freeman 2k7** (Richard Freeman and Dr. Hal Cooper, an engineer and infrastructure specialist, “Infrastructure Corridors Will Transform Economy,” pg online @ http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n37-20070921/26-31_737.pdf ghs-ef)



//A critical feature of the overall Bering Strait project,////<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> would be the development of// 

//AND//

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">aluminum wire, power</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> plants, locomotives, and other necessary components.</span>


===1NC Keystone Net benefit=== 
**ACRL creates Canadian Oil Dependence by increasing demand for Tar Sand – also substitutes for the Keystone XL**
**Francis 11/16/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Diane, Financial Post, Alaska-bound rail project could solve Canada’s oil sands problems, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://opinion.financialpost.com/2012/11/16/alaska-bound-rail-project-could-solve-canadas-oil-sands-problems/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is truly a nation-building project that must be seriously evaluated by all </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Canadian living standards. It’s an idea that deserves immediate and serious consideration.</span>
**Increased Demand for Oil Sands causes Warming**
**Schmidt 3/13/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jake, Switchboard – Natural Resource Defense Council, -- citing -- Oil sands mining and reclamation cause massive</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">loss of peatland and stored carbon</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rebecca C. Rooney, Suzanne E. Bayley, and David W. Schindler</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada T6G 2E9</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contributed by David W. Schindler, November 3, 2011 (sent for review August 30, 2011) “More Signs that Tar Sands is a Bad Investment - Global Warming Damage Rises”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jschmidt/more_signs_that_tar_sands_is_a.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Tar sands oil mining causes<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> more carbon pollution than previously estimated</span>//– according to a// 
//AND//
would equal around 60-492,000 tons of CO2 per year.


**Extinction** 
**Flournoy 12** – Citing Feng Hsu, PhdD NASA Scientist @ the Goddard Space Flight Center, Don FLournoy, PhD and MA from UT, former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, former Associate Dean at SUNY and Case Institute of Technology, Former Manager for Unviersity/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications, Ohio University, “Solar Power Satellites,” January 2012, Springer Briefs in Space Development, p. 10-11
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the Online Journal of Space Communication , Dr. Feng Hsu, a NASA </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">simply too high for us to take any chances” (Hsu 2010 ) </span>


===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Terror NB</span>=== 

**No offense thorium transition now**

**Halper 10/16/12** (Mark, Weinberg Foundation, “Tomorrow’s uranium story: Think thorium today” [[http://www.the-weinberg-foundation.org/2012/10/16/tomorrows-uranium-story-think-thorium-today/]])



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I think you see the punch line coming</span>//. With uranium such a tough busines//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for a new way. A thorium way – for the big tomorrow.</span>



**Increased Uranium -> terror** 

**Stockton 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( has thirty years of experience investigating waste and fraud throughout the federal government. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Stockton served as Special Assistant to Department of Energy Secretary Bill Richardson as his personal troubleshooter on physical and cyber security in the nuclear weapons complex. Prior to that, for twenty-two years, Mr. Stockton was the senior investigator on the House Energy and Power and the House Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees of the Energy and Commerce Committee. During the 1970s, he investigated most of the major defense contractors and oil companies, the diversion of bomb-grade uranium to Israel, and the death of Karen Silkwood. In the 1980's and early 1990's, he investigated the security and effectiveness of the nuclear weapons production program and defense contractor fraud.)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When President Barack Obama took office, he acknowledged that securing </span>//nuclear materials is critical// 

//AND//

//estimates; the exact amount of US-owned HEU is classified//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.8</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And – Nuclear terrorism causes extinction</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hellman, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Martin E., Emeritus Professor at Stanford, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence”, Spring, http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf)</span>



**__The threat of nuclear terrorism looms__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> much larger in the public’s mind than the threat </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">assume that </span>**__preventing World War III is a necessity—not an option.__** 


===**2NC Kazakhstan NB**=== 
**Plan decreases Uranium prices and hurts hurts Kazakhstan’s revenue**
**McDermott 11** (Roger, Senior Fellow, Foreign Military Studies Office, Fort Leavenworth, “Kazakhstan: Countering nuclear proliferation, Action to develop a nuclear and terrorist-free world,” in Kazakhstan 2011: Twenty Years of Peace and Creation, //First: The Forum for Global Decision Makers//, 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.firstmagazine.com/Publishing/SpecialReportsDetail.aspx?RegionId=4&SpecialReportId=96]]</span>)

Kazakhstan’s ambitions are likely to be realized if //uranium prices stay high//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and Kazatomprom is </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
increased //gross domestic product//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and status on the world stage </span>will be profound<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Prevents diversification of Kazakhstan’s economy**
**Pleitgen 12** (Frederick, CNN, “Kazakhstan hopes uranium, oil and gas will fuel its future,” 7-18-12,
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://articles.cnn.com/2012-07-18/asia/world_asia_kazakhstan-natural-resources-economy_1_vladimir-shkolnik-kazakhstan-uranium]]</span>)

Kazakhstan's mineral wealth will be a //major source of income//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for decades to come, </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">into place a plan for industrial and technological development to diversify the economy.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>

**Destroys stability**
**Hamm 12**(Nathan, founder and Principal Analyst for Registan, MA in Central Asian Studies from the University of Washington, “Kazakhstan’s Stability, Central Asia’s Stability,” 1-31-12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://registan.net/2012/01/31/kazakhstans-stability-central-asias-stability/]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I’m paraphrasing, but on the first two items, Dr. Roberts argues that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a better idea of when serious risks to stability are likely to arise.</span>

**Spreads throughout the region**
**Assenova 08** (Margarita Assenova, IND Director; Natalie Zajicova, Program Officer (IND); Janusz Bugajski, CSIS NEDP Director; Ilona Teleki, Deputy Director and Fellow (CSIS); Besian Bocka, Program Coordinator and Research Assistant (CSIS), “Kazakhstan’s Strategic Significance,” 2008, CSIS-IND Taskforce Policy Brief team, European Dialogue, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://eurodialogue.org/Kazakhstan-Strategic-Significance]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decision by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">objective while strengthening the role and prestige of the OSCE throughout Central Asia.</span>

**Nuclear war**
**Ahrari 01** (M. Ehsan, Professor of National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College, August 2001, “Jihadi Groups, Nuclear Pakistan and the New Great Game,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub112.pdf)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">South and </span>//Central Asia// constitute a part of the world where a well-designed 
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">partners for the United States, thus representing a gain for all concerned.</span>



=NIB= 
==Ex-Im CP== 
===1NC=== 
**Text: the United States federal government should repurpose the Export-Import Bank of the United States into a National Infrastructure Bank for the purposes of transportation infrastructure.**

**CP solves the case and doesn’t spend any money**
**Schweitzer et al. 11** (Howard Schweitzer; Mark L Alderman; Evan Bayh, First chief operating officer of the Treasury Department's Troubled Assets Relief Program and was senior vice president and general counsel of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 2005 to 2008, The Washington Post, “A bank for infrastructure? We have that.” 30 September 2011, http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P2-29764964.html)

In the American Jobs Act, President Obama reiterated his call for a national infrastructure
AND
green light is all that's needed to begin rebuilding America and creating jobs.

===2NC CP Solves=== 
**Export Import bank is organized to do the plan—only needs to be expanded**
**Snyder 11** (Tanya, Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio, DC Streetsblog, “Does the Elusive Infrastructure Bank Already Exist?” October 7, 2011, http://dc.streetsblog.org/2011/10/07/does-the-infrastructure-bank-of-our-dreams-already-exist/)

Mark Alderman of the Obama-Biden transition team, former U.S.
AND
create jobs over the next ten years – and infrastructure can do it.”


**Bank will be politically independent**
**Skidelsky and Martin 11** (Robert--professor of political economy at Warwick University. He is the co-author, with Edward Skidelsky, of How Much Is Enough: The Love of Money and the Case for the Good Life, AND Felix-- worked at the World Bank, was executive board member of and analyst for the European Stability Initiative, macroeconomist and strategist for the London-based investment manager, Thames River Capital, doctorate in economics from Oxford, "For a National Investment Bank," New York Review of Books, March 30, 2011, http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/)
As for the details of the bank’s operations and governance, there is a wealth
AND
complex, and new regulatory regimes in particular take time to become established.
==Inflation DA== 
===1NC=== 
**Inflation remains low but further spending will increase it—investor perception is on the brink.**
**Time Business 12** — Time Business, 2012 (“Fed Inflation Hawks Warn More Stimulus Could Fuel Prices,” Byline Sam Gustin, April 11th, Available Online at http://business.time.com/2012/04/11/fed-inflation-hawks-warn-more-stimulus-could-fuel-prices/, Accessed 06-30-2012)

Are inflation hawks preparing to take flight? That’s the sense one gets reading comments
AND
. Hopefully, they won’t end up being canaries in the coal mine.

**Stimulus increases inflation—erodes the dollar and floods the economy.**
**Zupan 11** — Mark Zupan, Dean of the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester, 2011 (“Stimulus Is a Recipe for Inflation,” Kiplinger, March 30th, Available Online at http://www.kiplinger.com/printstory.php?pid=21057, Accessed 06-30-2012)

Our nation is flirting with resurrecting inflation to levels that are reminiscent of the grim
AND
and this money hits the economy, it will add to inflationary pressures.

**Inflation tanks growth—investor perception negates stimulus benefits.**
**Volcker 11** — Paul A. Volcker, served as Chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1979 to 1987, worked for the federal government for over 30 years serving under John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter, and Ronald Reagan, 2011 (“A Little Inflation Can Be a Dangerous Thing,” New York Times, September 18th, Available Online at http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/19/opinion/a-little-inflation-can-be-a-dangerous-thing.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print, Accessed 06-30-2012)

So now we are beginning to hear murmurings about the possible invigorating effects of “
AND
, taking on the risks of deliberately promoting inflation would be simply irresponsible.

===2NC Overview=== 
**B. Inflation – Higher inflation will destroy consumer and investor confidence, undermining the economy—empirically proven.**
**Samuelson 11** (Robert J. Samuelson, Economics Columnist for The Washington Post, 2011 “Inflation is not the answer,” The Washington Post, August 24th, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/inflation-is-not-the-answer/2011/08/24/gIQAHh3ebJ_print.html)
It’s a sign of desperation that the latest cure being suggested for the ailing economy
AND
.5 percent in the 1950s), and accelerating price increases spooked Americans.

**That takes out and turns their internal links—empirically proven.**
**Samuelson 11** (Robert J. Samuelson, Economics Columnist for The Washington Post, 2011 “Inflation is not the answer,” The Washington Post, August 24th, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/inflation-is-not-the-answer/2011/08/24/gIQAHh3ebJ_print.html)

All this explains why higher inflation appeals to economists across ideological lines. While Rogoff
AND
the opposite of today’s goal — more, not less, consumer spending.

**Confidence is the crucial internal link.**
**Samuelson 11** (Robert J. Samuelson, Economics Columnist for The Washington Post, 2011 “Inflation is not the answer,” The Washington Post, August 24th, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/inflation-is-not-the-answer/2011/08/24/gIQAHh3ebJ_print.html]])

Inflation is not the answer. Remember: The economy’s basic problem is poor confidence spawned by pervasive uncertainties. The Fed shouldn’t make the problem worse by embracing policies that, whatever their theoretical attractions, will create more uncertainties in the real world.
===2NC China Impact=== 

**Inflation causes dollar flight**
**Samuelson 11** — Robert J. Samuelson, Economics Columnist for The Washington Post, 2011 (“Inflation is not the answer,” The Washington Post, August 24th, Available Online at http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/inflation-is-not-the-answer/2011/08/24/gIQAHh3ebJ_print.html, Accessed 06-30-2012)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There might be other unpleasant surprises. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If retail prices rose faster than wages</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span>//panicky flight away from the dollar//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on financial and foreign exchange markets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Dollar Dump Cuases Trade wars**
**Tsur 2009** [By Doron Tsur, CEO of Compass Map Mutual Funds, “Economic world war ahead? Let's learn the lesson of Pearl Harbor” Israel News, 6/23 [[http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/1094917.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last week </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">representatives of the BRIC nations</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Russia, China, India and Brazil </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">seen, that is not enough to prevent it from coming to be.</span>__**

**Causes a China war-outweighs other internals**
**Landy 2007** [Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines April 3, 2007, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]],]

The greatest threat for the 21st century is that these economic flare-ups between
AND
–far more than increases in military budgets and anti-satellite tests.

**That escalates**
**Scobell 2009** (Dr. Andrew, Professor of International Affairs and Director of the China Certificate Program – Texas A&M University, “Is There a Civil-Military Gap in China’s Peaceful Rise?”, Parameters, Summer, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/09summer/scobell.pdf]])

The actions suggest a lack of civilian control, although after the fact they have
AND
linking the Pentagon with the Central Military Commission was established in early 2008.
===2NC Link Magnifier=== 
**The impact is magnified: higher inflation breaches investor trust, undermining overall confidence.**
**Watson 11** (William Watson, Professor of Economics at McGill University, 2011, “The inflation swindle,” Financial Post, August 10th, [[http://opinion.financialpost.com/2011/08/10/william-watson-the-inflation-swindle/]])

The real fairness problem is that inflation is a swindle. It improves the balance
AND
breach of trust and a callous and costly way to solve the problem.

**Err neg—inflation will quickly accelerate out of control.**
**Sivy 12** (Michael Sivy, Chartered Financial Analyst and former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm, former investment columnist at Money, has appeared as a stock-market commentator on ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC, 2012, “Is It Time to Start Worrying About Inflation Again?,” Time Business, February 20th, [[http://business.time.com/2012/02/20/is-it-time-to-start-worrying-about-inflation-again/]])

The other problem, though, is actually more serious – and a bit more
AND
think that gas could go as high as $5 a gallon this summer
===2NC Heg Impact=== 
**Heres the impact –**
**High deficits threaten U.S. global leadership—this magnifies the risk of every major impact and turns the case.**
**Lieberthal and O’Hanlon 12** — Kenneth G. Lieberthal, Director of the John L. Thornton China Center and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, former Professor at the University of Michigan, served as special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Asia on the National Security Council, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, and Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, Visiting Lecturer at Princeton University, Adjunct Professor at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Ph.D. from Princeton University, 2012 (“The Real National Security Threat: America's Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 10th, Available Online at http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/07/10-economy-foreign-policy-lieberthal-ohanlon, Accessed 07-12-2012)
Drones, kill lists, computer viruses and administration leaks are all the rage in
AND
really possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not reestablished.
===2NC Uniqueness=== 
**the status quo is the best option—government action can only harm the recovery.**
**Foster 11** —J. D. Foster, Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Georgetown University, 2011 (“Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Unemployment in the U.S.,” Congressional Testimony, September 21st, Available Online at http://www.heritage.org/Research/Testimony/2011/09/Promoting-Job-Creation-in-the-US, Accessed 11-07-2011)
The federal government should adopt a very simple guiding principle for deciding what to do
AND
procedure or a new nostrum. Let it heal. Do less harm.

**The economy is resilient absent more stimulus.**
**Scissors and Foster 11** — Derek Scissors, Research Fellow in Asia Economic Policy in the Asian Studies Center, Adjunct Professor at George Washington University, holds an M.A. in Economics from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. in International Political Economy from Stanford University, and J. D. Foster, Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Georgetown University, 2011 (“Avoiding America’s Lost Decades,” Heritage Foundation WebMemo #3398, October 18th, Available Online at http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/10/Avoiding-Americas-Lost-Decades, Accessed 11-07-2011)
Though much damage has already been done, the American economy is still fundamentally flexible
AND
less harm in Japan—each country would enjoy a more prosperous future.
===AT: Jobs=== 
**Stimulus empirically fails—our evidence cites a 110-year study.**
**Cox and Alm 12** — W. Michael Cox, Director of the William J. O’Neil Center for Global Markets and Freedom at Southern Methodist University, former Chief Economist and Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and Richard Alm, Writer in Residence at the O’Neil Center for Global Markets and Freedom at Southern Methodist University, formerly covered the national economy for //U.S. News & World Report//, 2012 (“Sorry, Keynesians, More Spending Doesn't Boost Jobs,” //Investors.com//—the website of //Investor’s Business Daily//, July 6th, Available Online at http://news.investors.com/article/617318/201207061734/government-stimulus-doesnt-creat-more-jobs.htm?p=full, Accessed 07-20-2012)
Political leaders continue to peddle the snake oil that we can spend our way back
AND
truth — Keynesian stimulus doesn't work the way its adherents say it does.

**2. No job creation—poaching.**
**De Rugy and Mitchell 11** — Veronique de Rugy, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, former resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, and research fellow at the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, holds an M.A. in Economics from the University of Paris IX-Dauphine and a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Paris Pantheon-Sorbonne, and Matthew Mitchell, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, holds an M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics from George Mason University, 2011 (“Would More Infrastructure Spending Stimulate the Economy?,” Mercatus Center Working Paper Number 11-36, September, Available Online at http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf, Accessed 06-12-2012, p. 5)
 Job poaching, not creating: Unemployment rates among specialists, such as those
AND
money were poached from other organizations rather than from the unemployment lines.23


**Inflation increases unemployment—empirically proven.**
**Pento 12** — Michael Pento, President and Founder of Pento Portfolio Strategies—a Registered Investment Advisory Firm that provides money management services and research for individual and institutional clients, regular guest on CNBC, Bloomberg, FOX Business News and other national media outlets, 2012 (“Why Higher Inflation Destroys Jobs,” Forbes, May 1st, Available Online at http://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelpento/2012/05/01/why-higher-inflation-destroys-jobs/, Accessed 06-30-2012)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What strikes me the most is that neither the Nobel Prize winner nor the Chairman </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">unemployment has now become a structural condition in most of the developed world.</span>
===AT: Demand = Bigger I/L To Econ=== 
**3) History is on our side—government stimulus empirically fails**
**Riedl 10** — Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, 2010 (“Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” Wall Street Journal, January 9th, Available Online at http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines, Accessed 01-27-2010)

Indeed, President Obama's stimulus bill failed by its own standards. In a January
AND
the past ones, and it would bury the nation deeper in debt.
===AT: FED Solves=== 
**Policymakers won’t be able to effectively control inflation—political pressures.**
**Sivy 12** — Michael Sivy, Chartered Financial Analyst and former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm, former investment columnist at Money, has appeared as a stock-market commentator on ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC, 2012 (“Is It Time to Start Worrying About Inflation Again?,” Time Business, February 20th, Available Online at http://business.time.com/2012/02/20/is-it-time-to-start-worrying-about-inflation-again/, Accessed 06-30-2012)
Some commentators argue that inflation isn’t a problem yet for several reasons: First,
AND
will inevitably be to wait and be sure unpleasant measures are absolutely unavoidable.
==Econ== 
===1NC=== 
**The economy will recover without government spending—stimulus efforts have empirically failed.**
**Riedl 10** — Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, 2010 (“Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” Wall Street Journal, January 9th, Available Online at http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines, Accessed 01-27-2010)
All recessions eventually end. The U.S. economy has proved resilient enough
AND
long term—and leaves America better prepared to handle future economic downturns.

**Infrastructure bank won’t spur jobs or economic growth, takes too long, and adds to the deficit**
**Utt, 11** --- Senior Research Fellow in Economic Policy at Heritage (9/14/2011, Ronald D., “UTT: Infrastructure ‘bank’ doomed to fail,”
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/14/utt-infrastructure-bank-doomed-to-fail/,)

President Obama remains enamored of an “infrastructure bank,” an idea flogged, in
AND
deficit. That’s no way to meet the economic challenges confronting the nation.

**Infrastructure bank won’t boost transit or rail investments**
**Snyder, 11** --- Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio (10/28/2011, Tanya, “Why Create an Infrastructure Bank When We Could Just Expand TIFIA?” http://dc.streetsblog.org/2011/10/28/why-create-an-infrastructure-bank-when-we-could-just-expand-tifia/,)
DeFazio did note, however, that an infrastructure bank is, in the end
AND
to drive interest rates down and lower the costs of a transit project.

**Won’t create sustainable growth --- Japan proves**
**Gregory, 11** --- research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford (8/21/2011, Paul Roderick, “Why We Don't Need An Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why,” [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2011/08/21/why-we-dont-need-an-infrastructure-bank-japan-is-why/]],)

A president who preaches internationalism must look to the experiences of other countries. Japan
AND
who believes this would be a good candidate to buy the Brooklyn Bridge.¶


**Economic benefits are overstated—they conflate correlation with causation**
**CBO 7**
(Congressional Budget Office, August 2007, “Trends in Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, 1956 to 2004”, Building America’s Future)
But estimates of such large returns have proved controversial. For example, some of
AND
public capital plays no role in the differences among states’ economic performance. 14


**Economic decline doesn’t cause war**
**Tir 10** [Jaroslav Tir - Ph.D. in Political Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and is an Associate Professor in the Department of International Affairs at the University of Georgia, “Territorial Diversion: Diversionary Theory of War and Territorial Conflict”, The Journal of Politics, 2010, Volume 72: 413-425), Ofir]
Empirical support for the economic growth rate is much weaker. The finding that poor
AND
systemic problems plaguing the country (i.e., an underperforming economy).

**Ninety-three economic downturns disprove the impact**
**Miller 2k** (Morris, Adjunct Professor of Administration at the University of Ottawa, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol 24 No 4)

The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a
AND
by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).
==PPPs== 
===1NC=== 
**Minimal impact to cyberterrorism and its empirically denied.**
**Friedman 5** - Doctoral Candidate Pol. Sci. -- MIT, [ Ben, “Think Again: Homeland Security”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3079&page=2]
“Terrorists Will Soon Mount a Crippling Cyberattack” Nonsense. Cyberattacks are costly and
AND
gurus have far more to worry about from traditional hackers than from terrorists.

**PPPs can’t solve cyber-security – the industry fails**
**FCW ’12** (Federal Computer Week. “Industry cybersecurity efforts fall short, experts say”. March 29, 2012. http://fcw.com/articles/2012/03/29/house-cybersecurity-hearing.aspx)

Industry-led cybersecurity efforts have so far been inadequate to protect networks on which
AND
world, and we can no longer afford to tolerate it in cyberspace.”

**The NIB’s regulatory red tape fosters distrust between sectors, ending any chance at PPP’s – ridiculously comprehensive model proves**
**Philippe et al. 2010** - President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (8-10, http://www.economics.harvard.edu/faculty/shleifer/files/regulation_trust_qje.pdf, “Regulation and Distrust”)

We document that, in a cross section of countries, government regulation is strongly
AND
a bad one where a large share of uncivic individuals support heavy regulation.

===2NC PPPs are a terrible way to do affs=== 
**PPPs have huge capital costs that takes away incentive for private companies**
**Dutzik et all 11** (Tony Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University Jordan Schneider is an analyst in the Frontier Group Santa Barbara office. Before joining Frontier Group in the fall of 2010, she worked as a reporter, page designer and copy editor for small newspapers in both southeastern Alabama and in Colorado. In 2008, she wrote grants for the Catamount Institute in Colorado Springs, Co., and worked as a communications assistant for the Gulf Restoration Network in New Orleans. She has a strong interest in conservation and natural resources management issues, especially concerning the American tropics and the U.S. Gulf Coast. She completed independent studies in coastal Ecuador in 2009. Jordan is a 2008 summa cum laude graduate of Loyola University New Orleans. She majored in print journalism.Phineas Baxandall is the Senior Policy Analyst for Tax and Budget issues for U.S. PIRG Education Fund. He Mr. Baxandall is a leading expert in his field and has appeared on numerous talk shows and conducted studio interviews and debates for outlets such as CNN, MSNBC, Fox and PBS. His op-eds have appeared in dozens of newspapers across the country and he has been quoted in numerous publications such as the New York Times and the Economist. He often presents at conferences and has been invited to testify before state legislatures, Congress, and the U.S. Department of Transportation. His blogs appear often on the National Journal Transportation Expert blog and on Huffington Post. He serves on the executive board of the transportation coalition Transportation for America, as well as the privatization study group, In the Public Interest. Summer 2011 “High-Speed Rail: Public, Private or Both? Assessing the Prospects, Promise and Pitfalls of Public-Private Partnerships” http://cdn.publicinterestnetwork.org/assets/85a40b6572e20834e07b0da3e66e98bf/HSR-PPP-USPIRG-July-19-2011.pdf AB)
Potential Problems of PPPs High and Volatile Capital Costs Private companies have higher long-
AND
-speed rail line. (See page 21.) Lopsided Allocation of Risk

**The private sector has been reluctant to get involved in the past**
**Ybarra**, Senior Transportation Analyst at the Reason Foundation, **08** (Shirley Ybarra, former Secretary of Transportation for the Commonwealth of Virginia, 7/28/08, [[http://reason.org/news/printer/public-private-partnerships-in-1]], “Public Private Partnerships in Transportation”, DS)

Presidents G.W Bush and William Clinton issued executive orders (Executive Orders 12803
AND
in the federal and state bureaucracies as well as in the contracting community.


**No investment potential – too risky for markets**
**Rodrigue 09** (Jean-Paul, Ph.D. in Transport Geography, worked in the Department of Economics & Geography at Hofstra University and is currently in the Department of Global Studies and Geography, “The Financing of Transportation Infrastructure,” [[http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch7en/appl7en/ch7a2en.html]])

4. Limitations of Private Capital Even if public and private actors have established institutional
AND
to take advantage of the discount to capture valuable and revenue generating assets.


**PPPs create moral hazard yall – flips case**
**EPEC 11** (EPEC -- The European PPP Expertise Centre (EPEC) is a joint initiative involving the European Investment Bank (EIB), State Guarantees in PPPs A Guide to Better Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Management, May 2011, http://www.eib.org/epec/resources/epec-state-guarantees-in-ppps-public.pdf )

SGs involve the Government bearing some or all of the risks associated with a PPP
AND
find it more difficult to attract private sector interest and/or financing.

**Results in Liabilities – companies don’t get involved**
**EPEC 11** (EPEC -- The European PPP Expertise Centre (EPEC) is a joint initiative involving the European Investment Bank (EIB), State Guarantees in PPPs A Guide to Better Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Management, May 2011, http://www.eib.org/epec/resources/epec-state-guarantees-in-ppps-public.pdf )

Implicit liabilities may arise when the market expects the Government not to allow certain projects
AND
signal that Government would support all PPP projects should they run into difficulties.
==Solvency== 
===1NC=== 
**Lobbying distracts from good policies--**
**McConville 9** – Masters in city and regional planning [Megan, “National Infrastructure Bank: What’s the Deal?” December 11, 2009, http://thecityfix.com/blog/national-infrastructure-bank-whats-the-deal/]

These disadvantages are described: With political independence comes a loss of accountability. A
AND
idea, as private capital markets become more risk-averse during recessions.

**Forced profit seeking causes picking of bad infrastructure**
**Pollack 9** – Economic Policy institute [Ethan, December 10, 2009, “Street Smart Reforming the Transportation Budget Process,” http://www.epi.org/page/-/bp254/bp254.pdf]

Undue influence of profit motive. The current federal financing system relies heavily on transportation
AND
for future system improvement, eventually leading to a less efficient system overall.

**The NIB would crowd out private investment in times of growth**
**Pollack 9** – Economic Policy institute [Ethan, December 10, 2009, “Street Smart Reforming the Transportation Budget Process,” http://www.epi.org/page/-/bp254/bp254.pdf]

Cyclicality. One of the most potent benefits of infrastructure investment is its use as
AND
by itself could reduce the control that policy makers have over fiscal policy.

**Japan proves the NIB would shoot up interest rates**
**Gregory 11** – Forbes Staff Writer [Paul, Aug 21, 2011, “Why We Don't Need an Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why,” http://news.yahoo.com/why-dont-infrastructure-bank-japan-why-175611191.html]

Under normal circumstances, the president could sell his infrastructure bank (It only costs
AND
capital. Japan gets zero or slow growth from huge amounts of capital.

**Federal earmarking causes mismanagement**
**Utt 2011** (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Federal Highway Program: How Opting Out Would Help States, The Heritage Foundation, July 6th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/07/federal-highway-transportation-program-why-states-should-opt-out)

Funded primarily by motorists and truckers who pay a series of user taxes, federal
AND
costs (Davis–Bacon); and impose delays on projects (NEPA).

**Bank regulations kill the banks effectiveness**
**Roth 10** (Gabriel, civil engineer and transportation economist, June 2010, “Federal Highway Funding”http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/highway-funding/#_edn0 LJ)

The federal government plays a large role in transportation policy through subsidy programs for state
AND
and expand the private sector's role in the funding and operation of highways.


===**__2NC Special Interest Turn__**=== 
**A new infrastructure bank would cause fraud and abuse—lack of political oversight**
**Pollack 9** – Economic Policy institute [Ethan, December 10, 2009, “Street Smart Reforming the Transportation Budget Process,” http://www.epi.org/page/-/bp254/bp254.pdf]

Less accountability. The benefit received from more political independence is not without its cost
AND
a cost that should be weighed against the gross benefits of political independence.

**The bank isn’t accountable—projects wouldn’t benefit the public**
**Utt 11** – PhD Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow at the Heritage Foundation [Ronald, October 30th, 2011, “The Limited Benefits of a National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.hawaiireporter.com/the-limited-benefits-of-a-national-infrastructure-bank/123]

Previous sections have already touched on the management challenges confronting any of these banks.
AND
testimony, but it is certainly an issue that Congress should carefully review.

**No quality control—takes out solvency**
**FDL 11** [Fire Dog Lake, “Infrastructure Bank Creates More Non-Accountable Decision-Makers”. http://firedoglake.com/2011/08/04/infrastructure-bank-creates-more-non-accountable-decision-makers/]

But where would the money come from? The Iraq war drains our national resources
AND
their clients are certainly aligned, but not with the interests of US citizens

2NC Revenues


**Profits in transportation is mission impossible—it’s just not a lucrative market**
**Utt 11** – PhD Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow at the Heritage Foundation [Ronald, October 30th, 2011, “The Limited Benefits of a National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.hawaiireporter.com/the-limited-benefits-of-a-national-infrastructure-bank/123]

In this regard, what is noteworthy about the typical infrastructure bank proposals is that
AND
what would otherwise go through the existing highway and transit programs.[2]


===2NC Crowd Out=== 
**Subsidization by the feds deters private markets from investing in times of recession**
**Pollack 9** – Economic Policy institute [Ethan, December 10, 2009, “Street Smart Reforming the Transportation Budget Process,” http://www.epi.org/page/-/bp254/bp254.pdf]

Capitalization. The current NIB proposals also have the federal government providing initial capital to
AND
to this kind of influence, resulting in a less efficient project selection.





=CCS= 
==Warming CP== 
===1NC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should remove the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit for corn based ethanol and corn based cellulosic ethanol, remove the Renewable Fuels Support for grain based ethanols, and lift the tariff on imported Brazilian Ethanol. The United States Federal Government should condition the provision of farm subsidies on acreage diversion programs for switchgrass and other biomass crops.**

**Energy crops create carbon sinks solve warming**
**Mazza 08** (Patrick Mazza, Climate Solutions Research Director, 3/12/08, “Growing Sustainable Biofuels: Common Sense on Biofuels,” Climate Solutions, http://www.worldchanging.com/archives/007885.html)

The future of the Earth could well hinge on the future of earth, the
AND
biofuels done sustainably could play a leading role in solving the carbon challenge.

**Ethanol Coop means techsharing – their offense doesn’t assume brazillian ethanol which is uniquely cost protective**
**Fletcher & Pierce 07** (Megan Fletcher is program associate for legislative affairs at the Inter-American Dialogue (think tank) Lauren Pierce has researched a diverse range of subjects, including immigration, U.S.-Latin American relations, and gender. She recently worked with the World Bank on studies of energy efficiency in Russia and Armenia. B.A. (summa cum laude) in Government from Smith College, 2/21/07, “Biofuels, Energy Strategies, and U.S. Brazil Relations”, http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=168)

"Ethanol is the answer for reducing dependence on oil rich countries," asserted
AND
, as well as the establishment of international standards for the ethanol market.


**Causes a transition from fossil fuels**
**Tolgfors 07** (Sten, Minister of Trade in Sweden, “Anförande vid den internationella konferensen om biodrivmedel i Bryssel”, http://www.sweden.gov.se/sb/d/8737/a/85396)

All political fields must contribute in meeting this goal, if we are to make
AND
need to create a world market for bio fuels and dismantle market distortions.
==Warming== 
===1NC=== 
**Earthquakes will reverse the benefits—emits CO2 back into the atmosphere**
**Sheridan 12** – PhysOrg [Kerry, June 18, 2012, “Carbon capture too risky, earthquake prone: study,” http://phys.org/news/2012-06-carbon-capture-risky-earthquake-prone.html]

The warning came in a Perspective article in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
AND
to assess and more research is needed, the NRC report said.


**Warming inevitable—the positive feedback cycles have already been triggered**
**Soloman et. al 10** [Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), 8/31/2010, “Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases,” PNAS vol. 107, no. 43, [[http://www.pnas.org/content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+html]]]
Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the
AND
behavior of warming and differ from model to model (3, 36).

**AND, doesn’t cause extinction**
**NIPCC 11**. Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html]]

In a paper published in Systematics and Biodiversity, Willis et al. (2010
AND
the fossil record indicates remarkable biotic resilience to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."

**Acidification causes leaks from the wells—CO2 would pollute the air and water killing everything surrounding the well**
**Thomson 9** – Program on Water Issues Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto [Graham, September 23, 2009, “Burying Carbon Dioxide in Underground Saline Aquifers: Political Folly or Climate Change Fix?” [[http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/archive/00242/Munk_Centre_Paper_242701a.pdf]], Page 25-28]

Problem 4: Leaks (flaws, faults and the ‘pincushion effect’) “
AND
death,” according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 80

**Warming not real - 30,000 scientists signed a petition saying warming is flat-out nonexistent - their data is skewed**
**Bell 12 (**Larry Bell, Prof at Univ of Houston, Sasakawa International Center for Space Architecture, 7/17/2012, "That Scientific Global Warming Consensus...Not!," Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/sites/larrybell/2012/07/17/that-scientific-global-warming-consensus-not/2/)

Since 1998, more than 31,000 American scientists from diverse climate-related
AND
…does this include land use changes, such as agriculture and deforestation?


**CO2 doesn’t decimate the oceans-mixed effects**
Robert M. **Carter and,** research professor in the Marine Geophysical Laboratory at James Cook University, S. Fred **Singer 11**, Professor Emeritus of environmental sciences at the University of Virginia, “Climate Change Reconsidered”, August 25, [[http://www.nipccreport.org/reports/2011/2011report.html]]

As more and more pertinent studies have been conducted, the extreme view of ocean
AND
acidification is not as bad as the IPCC makes it out to be.

**Subsequent policy action won’t happen**
**A. No GOP**
**Brian Beary**, staff writer, 7-7-2010, “Impact of BP Oil Spill on US Climate Bill’s Chances Unclear,” Europolitics, http://www.europolitics.info/sectorial-policies/impact-of-bp-oil-spill-on-us-climate-bill-s-chances-unclear-art277276-15.html
The prospects of the United States enacting comprehensive climate legislation including a binding, economy
AND
climate bill onto a separate bill to overhaul rules on offshore oil drilling.

**B.Obama won’t do it.**
**Cappiello ’11**
Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390
The Democrats' leading environmental messenger, Al Gore, is declaring that President Barack Obama
AND
him a Nobel Prize and was adapted into an Oscar-winning documentary.
===2NC Leaks=== 
**A 1% risk of our turn means they can’t solve**
**Thomson 9** – Program on Water Issues Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto [Graham, September 23, 2009, “Burying Carbon Dioxide in Underground Saline Aquifers: Political Folly or Climate Change Fix?” [[http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/archive/00242/Munk_Centre_Paper_242701a.pdf]], Page 31]

Leaks could also undo the mitigation goal of CCS, according to University of Toronto
AND
at 450 ppmv (parts per million) or even 550 ppmv.” 91

**Releases turn case—also have the capability to kill large amounts of people**
**Smekens and van der Zwaan 4** – Koen Smekens, Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN), Policy Studies Department Bob van der Zwaan, Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN), Policy Studies Department and Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government [March 2004, “Environmental Externalities of Geological Carbon Sequestration Effects on Energy Scenarios,” [[http://www.feem.it/userfiles/attach/Publication/NDL2004/NDL2004-058.pdf]]]

Probabilities for catastrophic well blowouts (e.g. during injection) may be
AND
, such risks will augment accordingly. Land-use issues may then also
===2NC No Acidification=== 
**Oceans resilient-no rapid pH changes**
Robert M. **Carter and**, research professor in the Marine Geophysical Laboratory at James Cook University, S. Fred **Singer 11**, Professor Emeritus of environmental sciences at the University of Virginia, “Climate Change Reconsidered”, August 25, [[http://www.nipccreport.org/reports/2011/2011report.html]]

Hendriks et al. conclude the world‘s marine biota are ―more resistant
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">pH in bulk waters of the range predicted during the 21st century.‖</span>
===2NC Earthquakes=== 
**Earthquakes would happen—releases CO2 back into the atmosphere**
**Bruggers 12** – The Courier-Journal [James, July 8, 2012, “Deep trouble? Carbon dioxide capture and storage may cause quakes,” [[http://www.courier-journal.com/article/20120708/NEWS01/307080002/Deep-trouble-Carbon-dioxide-capture-storage-may-cause-quakes]]

But some scientists are raising new concerns that storing carbon dioxide hundreds to thousands of
AND
and leaks have put advocates of carbon capture and storage on the defensive.
==Solvency== 
===1NC=== 
**Mitigation and adaptation NOW solves – it’s a LONG TIME before their impacts, we’re not stupid. We can fix shit**
Robert O. **Mendelsohn** **9**, the Edwin Weyerhaeuser Davis Professor, Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University, June 2009, “Climate Change and Economic Growth,” online: http://www.growthcommission.org/storage/cgdev/documents/gcwp060web.pdf

The heart of the debate about climate change comes from a number of warnings from
AND
range climate risks. What is needed are long‐run balanced responses.


**They can’t solve fast enough**
**a) Commercial viability**
**Haszeldine 9** – Scottish Power Professor of Carbon Capture & Storage at the University of Edinburgh School of GeoSciences (R. Stuart, 9/25/09, “Carbon Capture and Storage: How Green Can Black Be?” Science, Volume 325, Number 5948, pp. 1647-1652, http://www.roberts.cmc.edu/159/2010/2010pdfs/5.%20Feb%204%202010.pdf)

One step toward reducing CO2 emissions is to capture the CO2 generated during combustion and
AND
—will then be delayed beyond the deadline set by climate change predictions.

**b) Mapping technology is a prerequisite and will take 20 years**
**Thomson 9** – Program on Water Issues Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto [Graham, September 23, 2009, “Burying Carbon Dioxide in Underground Saline Aquifers: Political Folly or Climate Change Fix?” [[http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/archive/00242/Munk_Centre_Paper_242701a.pdf]], Page 33]

Problem 6: Lack of Information on Groundwater Resources Not only do we know little
AND
brine and the triggering of changes in shallow groundwater-flow regimes.” 101

**CCS impossible**
**a) Requires freshwater that isn’t avaliable**
**Thomson 9** – Program on Water Issues Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto [Graham, September 23, 2009, “Burying Carbon Dioxide in Underground Saline Aquifers: Political Folly or Climate Change Fix?” [[http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/archive/00242/Munk_Centre_Paper_242701a.pdf]], Page 21-22]

Problem 1: Increased use of freshwater “Energy and water are indeed inextricably linked
AND
S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in March, 2009. 58

**b) Not enough space to store C02**
**Glover 10** – Canada Free Press [Peter, February 25, 2010, “Geologic Carbon Storage Can NEVER Work, says new US study,” [[http://www.canadafreepress.com/index.php/article/20372]]]

If world leaders – still reeling from the fiasco of the Copenhagen Summit in the
AND
CO2 emissions, although it has been repeatedly presented as such by others.”


**8. Limits on carbon dioxide kill aff solvency**
**Banerjee 12** Neela Banerjee, Washington Bureau March 27, 2012 LA Times http://articles.latimes.com/2012/mar/27/nation/la-na-epa-emissions-20120328

EPA emission standards may rule out new coal power plants Proposed new emissions standards would
AND
a move that could essentially bar new coal-fired electric generation facilities.


**9. No one will invest in the aff**
**Banerjee 12** Neela Banerjee, Washington Bureau March 27, 2012 LA Times http://articles.latimes.com/2012/mar/27/nation/la-na-epa-emissions-20120328

The proposed emissions standards are for all new plants, including ones powered by abundant
AND

===2NC No Tipping Points=== 
**Tipping points theory is wrong---zero data can reliably identify specific tipping points**
Andrew C. **Revkin 9**, senior fellow at Pace University's Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies, has taught at Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism and the Bard College Center for Environmental Policy, March 29, 2009, “Among Climate Scientists, a Dispute Over ‘Tipping Points’,” The New York Times, online: http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/29/weekinreview/29revkin.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print

But the idea that the planet is nearing tipping points — thresholds at which change
AND
no one knows where the thresholds lie that would set off such shifts.

**Actual climate science rejects tipping point theory**
Chris **Russill 8,** Assistant Professor in the Department of Writing Studies at the University of Minnesota, July 2008, “Tipping Point Forewarnings in Climate Change Communication: Some Implications of an Emerging Trend,” Environmental Communication, Vol. 2, No. 2, p. 133-153

Finally, there is the fact that Hansen’s use of ‘‘tipping points’’ does not
AND
the climate system to tumble past the crucial threshold’’ (p. 785).
===2NC CCS Impossible=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, the only empirical example of CCS proves it fails</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakewell 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Bloomberg [Sally, Mar 15, 2012, “U.K. ‘Wasted’ 4 Years on Failed $1.6 Billion Carbon-Capture Plan,” [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/u-k-wasted-4-years-on-failed-1-6-billion-carbon-capture-plan.html]]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.K. in 2007 invited companies to compete for funds to build</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//CO2 hasn’t yet been successfully deployed//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on a commercial scale at power plants.</span>


===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2NC Long T/F</span>=== 
**c) Legal issues**
**Haszeldine 9** – Scottish Power Professor of Carbon Capture & Storage at the University of Edinburgh School of GeoSciences (R. Stuart, 9/25/09, “Carbon Capture and Storage: How Green Can Black Be?” Science, Volume 325, Number 5948, pp. 1647-1652, [[@http://www.roberts.cmc.edu/159/2010/2010pdfs/5.%20Feb%204%202010.pdf]])

On the 10-year time scale, it is not technology, but legal
AND
codes do not work, but clearly signed and enforced rule changes do.

===AT: Aquafers=== 
**Not all aquifers are created equal—most fail to qualify**
**Thomson 9** – Program on Water Issues Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto [Graham, September 23, 2009, “Burying Carbon Dioxide in Underground Saline Aquifers: Political Folly or Climate Change Fix?” [[http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/archive/00242/Munk_Centre_Paper_242701a.pdf]], Page 23-24]

Problem 3: How much containment space do we actually have? This will seem
AND
g., stacked injection zones), risk elements, or economic characteristics.” 702

**Aquifers can’t hold CO2**
**Haszeldine 9** – Scottish Power Professor of Carbon Capture & Storage at the University of Edinburgh School of GeoSciences (R. Stuart, 9/25/09, “Carbon Capture and Storage: How Green Can Black Be?” Science, Volume 325, Number 5948, pp. 1647-1652, http://www.roberts.cmc.edu/159/2010/2010pdfs/5.%20Feb%204%202010.pdf)

Saline formations (aquifers) are not restricted to hydrocarbon provinces and have been calculated
AND
0.2% when a pressure limit was also applied (18).


===AT: Saline=== 
**Saline deposits don’t work**
**Haszeldine 9** – Scottish Power Professor of Carbon Capture & Storage at the University of Edinburgh School of GeoSciences (R. Stuart, 9/25/09, “Carbon Capture and Storage: How Green Can Black Be?” Science, Volume 325, Number 5948, pp. 1647-1652, http://www.roberts.cmc.edu/159/2010/2010pdfs/5.%20Feb%204%202010.pdf)

Injection and geological storage. To have an impact on worldwide emissions of fossil fuel
AND
C may overcome the problem (25), but practical demonstrations are needed.

===AT: Depleted Oil=== 
**Neither do depleted oil fields**
**Haszeldine 9** – Scottish Power Professor of Carbon Capture & Storage at the University of Edinburgh School of GeoSciences (R. Stuart, 9/25/09, “Carbon Capture and Storage: How Green Can Black Be?” Science, Volume 325, Number 5948, pp. 1647-1652, http://www.roberts.cmc.edu/159/2010/2010pdfs/5.%20Feb%204%202010.pdf)

Injection into depleted oil fields can also be difficult because in many fields, water
AND
guaranteed availability of CO2 are requirements for North Sea EOR viability (18).


=JARC= 
==Case== 
===1NC=== 
**Environmental justice accomplishs nothing – its always commodified**
**Foreman 98**
Christopher Foreman is a nonresident senior fellow in Governance Studies. Since 2000, he has also been a professor and director of the social policy program at the University of Maryland’s School of Public Policy. His research focuses on the politics of health, race, environmental regulation, government reform, and domestic social policy
Ph.D. (1980), A.M. (1977), A.B. (1974), Harvard University
The Promise and Peril of Environmental Justice

More frequent resort to a rationalizing, if not solely economic, perspective would encourage
AND
environmental blackmail," allowing disadvantaged communities to become "hooked on toxics."26

**Green capitalism holds to the development of the capitalist economy, a view which is based on constant growth which creates ecological scarcities and environmental derogation.**
Brett **Clark** **and** Richard **York**. **2005**. [Sociology doctoral student at the University of Oregon/Assistant professor of sociology at the University of Oregon.] “Dialectical Materialism and Nature: An Alternative to Economism and Deep Ecology,”
<http://oae.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/18/3/318>

In an era when neoliberal capitalism dominates the world economy and is assumed to be
AND
, waiting to be used in the production of commodities for the market.

**Aims at reformation only re-create violence**
**Holloway, 2010** (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 60-61)

But then what do we say of Bolivia and Venezuela? Are they to be
AND
and promotion of communal councils is at the core of this movement.21


**– Goals versus the Process – The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**, Anti-Oedipus, 370-1

The codes and their signifiers , the axiomatics and their structures, the imaginary figures
AND
ceases to reach fulfillment as it proceeds-art as "experimentation.'
==Cap Kritik== 
===1NC=== 
**The plan is SEEPED in the idea of auto-mobility – that only EXPANDS neoliberal capital Mobiltiy is Not liberating but simply reintrenches squo power structures.**
**Bonham ’06** (Jennifer, lecturer in Geographical and Environmental Studies at the University of Adelaide,“Part Two Governing Automobility: Transport: disciplining the body that travels”,9/18/06, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-954X.2006.00637.x/full The Sociological Review, 54: 55–74. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-954X.2006.00637.x)

This chapter locates the proliferation of automobile usage within a broader study of how urban
AND
field of action can be structured toward the efficient conduct of the journey.

**Perticular demands re-ify the hold of capital**
**Zizek 02** Slavoj Zizek, married to a hottie, Revolution at the Gates, pg 296-302

So the struggle ahead has no guaranteed outcome – it will confront us with an
AND
possible" (or, as we usually put it, "feasible").


**The focus on ­­­­­­­­­­­­­­race becomes an alibi for acquiescence of class struggles – they obscure the logic of capital and ensure repetition of oppression**
**Zavarzadeh 94** (Mas'Ud, The Stupidity That Consumption Is Just as Productive as Production": In the Shopping Mall of the Post-al Left," College Literature, Vol. 21, No. 3, The Politics of Teaching Literature 2 (Oct., 1994),pp. 92-114)

Post-al logic is marked above all by its erasure of "production"
AND
divided by two antagonistic classes" (see my Theory and its Other).

**The aff’s approach to knowledge which privileges subjectivity and uncertainty denies the objectivity in class relations and the oppression that is produced from capital accumulation**
**Zavarzadeh 94** (Mas'Ud, The Stupidity That Consumption Is Just as Productive as Production": In the Shopping Mall of the Post-al Left," College Literature, Vol. 21, No. 3, The Politics of Teaching Literature 2 (Oct., 1994), pp. 92-114)
The unsurpassable objectivity which is not open to rhetorical interpretation and constitutes the decided foundation
AND
citizen from the revolutionary cell to the ludic shopping mall of [France].

**The denial of the objective suffering that capitalism naturalizes violence and makes us indifferent toward limitless annihilation**
**Zavarzadeh 94** (Mas'Ud, The Stupidity That Consumption Is Just as Productive as Production": In the Shopping Mall of the Post-al Left," College Literature, Vol. 21, No. 3, The Politics of Teaching Literature 2 (Oct., 1994),pp. 92-114)
What is obscured in this representation of the non-dialogical is, of course
AND
by which this violence is made more tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.

**Alt Text: Vote Negative to validate and adopt the method of structural/historical criticism that is the 1NC.**
**Historical Method comes first – this debate is not about what the aff does but rather was the aff formulated with accurate knowledge on history – we must ground our debates in accurate historical methods that only Marxism can account for – their method prevents a transition to a society beyond oppression**
**TUMINO 1** (Stephen, Prof. English @ Pitt, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More than Ever”, Red Critique)

Any effective political theory will have to do at least two things: it will
AND
determinism of corporate theory ("knowledge work") that masquerades as social theory.
==Mobility Kritik== 
===1NC=== 
**Contention one is Speed –**
**The affirmatives focus on mobility is beholden to an ideology of speed that informs every other part of life – existential threats cannot be separated from the pursuit of acceleration – the affirmative ethos of speed will be used to justify violent pursuit of those who do not accelerate at an adequate pace**
**Derrida 84** (renowned deconstructionist and philosopher, Jacques Diacritics 14.2 jstor)

Let me say a word first about speed. At the beginning there will have
AND
that the human subject-as such-would have himself covered up.


**Contention 2 is ablism –**
**Obssession with mobility creastes decharacterization of bodies and results in socital ablism and social exclusion.**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Barnes et al (1999, page 121), for instance, note that UK
AND
of mobility as ``a messy, unpredictable, diverse and changeable reality''.

**Mobility becomes the master trope of human disqualification – turns your case only the alt solves**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly circumscribed by sociocultural attitudes, practices, and
AND
are demanding, not to have their needs defined and met by others''.


**Framing JARC as a transportation program cements a short-sighted view of awarding funds rather than ensuring program outcomes – instead – we must frame JARC as an employment program – only the Alt solves**
**Sandoval et al, 2009** (J.S. Onesimo, Professor at St. Louis University, Eric Peterson, Kim L. Hunt, “A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs”, Journal of Public Transportation, Vol. 12, No. 4)

There is no question that the JARC programs distributed a large sum of transportation funding
AND
are the umbilical cord to economic mobility for many low-income families.
===2NC Overview=== 
**The impact is bare life**
**Dean 04** (Mitchell, professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)

Fourth thesis: Bio-politics captures life stripped naked (or the zoē that
AND
the very core of modern politics, ethics, and systems of justice.
===2NC Framework=== 
**The epistemology of mobility structures policy**
**Cresswell 06** (Tim Cresswell¶ Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London,¶ Egham, Surrey, UK; The Right to Mobility: The Production of Mobility in the Courtroom, Antipode volume 38 issue 4)

It is this status of a necessary social production, I argue, that makes
AND
geographical knowledges in the always political and always differentiated production of social life.

**Rejection of transportation infrastructure planning is necessary to solve our obsession with mobility – extend Imrie and Derrida and Sandoval – – expertism plagues the implementation of the plan – individuals refusal to partake in ableist planning mechanism is necessary to open a space for the criticism of fast paced mobility**
**Burke** School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland, **2002** Anthony, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 27.1 page InfoTrac OneFile

It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but as countless struggles for freedom,
AND
is a world after security, and what its shimmering possibilities might be.

===2NC AT: Floating PICs Bad=== 
**Policymaking – discursive analysis is a pre-requisite to policy implementation by shaping what seems politically feasible – our evidence smokes theirs on this question and here’s more**
Ole **SENDING** Research Fellow @ Norweigan Inst. of Int’l Affairs **‘4** in Global Institutions & Development eds. Morten Boas and Desmond McNeil p. 58-59
Granted that the objectification and definition of a given phenomenon is open to a variety
AND
Douglas 1986; March and Olsen 1989: Scott and Meyer. 1994).

=Offshore Port Security= 
==Port Shutdown Advantage== 
===1NC=== 
**No nuclear terror – Terrorists cant acquire, build, or deliver a bomb**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chapman 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steve Chapman, reporter and editorial writer for Chicago Tribune, 2/8 2008 [RealClearPolitics, “The Implausibility of Nuclear Terrorism”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But remember: After Sept. 11, 2001, we all thought more attacks </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__right__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For us to escape, only one thing has to go wrong </span>

**They don’t change motivation—makes conflicts inev**
**No nuclear terror attack**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schneidmiller 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chris, Experts Debate Threat of Nuclear, Biological Terrorism, 13 January 2009, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090113_7105.php, AMiles)</span>

**__There is__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an "almost </span>**__vanishingly__****__small" likelihood that terrorists would ever be able__**
**__AND__**
**__be difficult to build a weapon__****__or use one that has been stolen__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Status quo solves – We’re winning the war on terror now, and there are no attacks coming against the US**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fingar 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Deupty Director, Officie of the Director of Ntl. Intelligence, 2/13, Capitol Hill Hearing Testimony, Global Security Assessment, CQ Congressional Testimony</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let me start by highlighting a few of our top successes </span>**__in the past year__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__some of its luster__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; nonetheless, we still face multifaceted terrorist threats.</span>

**ZERO risk of WMD terror – their evidence is alarmist**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mueller 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Senior Research Scientist at the Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Adjunct Professor in the Department of Political Science, both at Ohio State University, and Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. Mark G. Stewart is Australian Research Council Professorial Fellow and Professor and Director at the Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability at the University of Newcastle in Australia, The Terrorism Delusion, International Security, Vol. 37, No. 1 (Summer 2012), pp. 81–110)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the course of time, such essentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">delusionary thinking has been internalized and institutionalized</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">reasonably be considered “massive,” particularly in comparison with nuclear ones. 52 </span>


**No reason why all ports close**
**Ninety-three economic downturns disprove the link**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Morris, Adjunct Professor of Administration at the University of Ottawa, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol 24 No 4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Do wars spring from</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>



**The economy is resilient – It overcame worse downturn events, and it’s empirically proven.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Behravesh 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Chief Economist @ Newsweek- ["The Great Shock Absorber"]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jan. 16, 2006 issue -</span> **__The U.S. and global economies__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">London bombings</span> **__would__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> probably </span>**__have an even smaller impact on overall GDP growth__**.


**It’s impossible to safeguard every target—terrorists will just target elsewhere**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flintoff 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Corey, NPR, May 15, 2012, “Why Do Terrorists So Often Go for Planes?” http://www.npr.org/2012/05/15/152750767/why-do-terrorists-so-often-go-for-planes)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ever since the Sept. 11 attacks, airports have probably been the most heavily </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">they don't run for the hills. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They help the people around them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**1. Environmental catastrophes are hype and lies – Statistics go our way.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dutton 01</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - prof of philosophy @ U of Canterbury [Dennis Dutton. “Greener Thank You Think. ‘The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World' by Bjorn Lomborg.” The Washington Post. October 21, 2001.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That the human race faces environmental problems is unquestionable. </span>**__That environmental experts have regularly__**
**__AND__**
**__typographical errors had been absorbed unchallenged into the folklore of environmental disaster scenarios__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




**2. The environment is resilient – It has withstood ridiculous amounts of destruction.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Easterbrook 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Distinguished Fellow, Fullbright Foundation (Gregg, A Moment on Earth pg 25) MI</span>

**__I__****__n__****__the aftermath of events__****__such as Love Canal__****__or the__** **__Exxon Valdez oil spill__**
**__AND__**
**__are pinpricks compared to forces of the magnitude nature is accustomed to resisting.__**



**Port attacks only constitute 2% of all international conflict – an increase in security is unnecessary**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 19, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">world’s oceans have not been a major locus of terrorist activity. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">demolition techniques).1 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Limited resources have traditionally prevented groups from accessing options.</span>

**Terror “experts” lack any scientific rigor—your evidence is epstemically flawed**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ranstorp 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Magnus, Research Director of the Centre for Asymmetric Threat Studies at the Swedish National Defence College, “Critical Terrorism Studies: A New Research Agenda,” ed. Jackson, Smyth, and Gunning, p. 25-31)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The art of masquerading evidence in terrorism research As Bruce Hoffman poignantly pointed out in </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as now, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">silently sweeping it under the carpet in a bandwagon fashion.</span>

**Double bind – either the plan doesn’t solve all port terrorist threats, or it solves but destroys economic growth and encourages external terror**
**__Keefer, 2007__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Wendy, Professor of National Security at the Charleston School of Law, ‘Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect the Homeland and the International Supply Chain’, Volume 30 Issue 1 Fall 2007, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://scholarship.law.campbell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1462&context=clr]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> // JK</span>

**__The only way wholly to ensure terrorists are unable to use containers to import weapons__**
**__AND__**
**__potential terrorist goals by slowing maritime trade to an economically unacceptable level__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 64</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT: Port Shutdown</span>=== 

**Conventional attacks won’t shut down ports and nuke attack unlikely**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Learner and Thronburg 2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher Thronberg and Edward Learner, Director of the UCLA Anderson Forecast, Chief Economist UCLA, Christopher Thornberg is a founding principal of Beacon, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost,” 2006, [[http://www.ppic.org/main/publication.asp?i=698]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach certainly represent a primary infrastructure target </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">horrifi</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">c device would be a densely populated area, not a port</span>.





**Ports would still be able to function**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Learner and Thronburg 2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher Thronberg and Edward Learner, Director of the UCLA Anderson Forecast, Chief Economist UCLA, Christopher Thornberg is a founding principal of Beacon, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost,” 2006, [[http://www.fpri.org/footnotes/1410.200905.garfinkle.nucleardeterrenceterrorism.html?i=698|http://www.ppic.org/main/publication.asp?i=698]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given that it is unlikely for the entire port complex to be closed for an </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">emergency, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">competing</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> shipping companies would share facilities. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Problem Is With Labor </span>

===2NC AT: Port Attacks=== 
**a. Adhere to cheap methods on land**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 19, [[http://www.reason.com/news/show/127676.html|http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Very much related to this is the fact that </span>**__terrorists are inherently conservative when it__**
**__AND__**
**__benefits that might be garnered__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from initiating such a change in operational direction.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. Media coverage</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 20, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A further consideration has to do with the nature of </span>**__maritime targets__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> themselves: Because </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">no one observes the event, does it have any reason for being?</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">c. Perceived current measures </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 23, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-107shrg81047/pdf/CHRG-107shrg81047.pdf|http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although it is true that very little redundancy (in the form of surplus supply</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, most commodities would not be unduly aﬀected by short delays in delivery.</span>


**Low risk of maritime terror – land attacks are more likely**
**__Parfomak & Frittelli, 2007__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Paul Parfomak, Ph.D in engineering and public policy from Carnegie, Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Policy at the Congressional Research Service, and John Frittelli, Transportation Analyst at the Congressional Research Service, ‘Maritime Security: Potential Terrorist Attacks and Protection Priorities’, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA460683</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> // JK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A key consideration in assessing the general likelihood of a maritime attack against the United </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__sea for terrorist publicity may also reduce the desirability of maritime targets__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 122</span>

**High-risk/low-probability calculus specifically in the context of terrorism leads to policy paralysis and is a poor way to assess outcomes**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mueller and Stewart 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Professor and Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies at the Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Department of Political Science at Ohio State University **Professor of Civil Engineering Director, Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability at The University of Newcastle [*John Mueller,** Mark Stewart, “Terror, Security, and Money: Balancing the Risks, Benefits, and Costs of Homeland Security”, [[http://www.stratfor.com/bin_laden_tape_and_strike_damadola|http://polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/MID11TSM.PDF]], AL]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Playing to this demand, government officials are inclined to focus on worst case scenarios</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“probabilistic thinking is repudiated in favor of "possibilistic thinking."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">17 </span>


===2NC Soft Targets=== 
**Agroterrorism isn’t a target now – an attack jeopardizes human survival**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Monke 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim, analyst in agricultural policy, March 12, pg. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/terror/RL32521.pdf)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While agriculture may not be a terrorist’s first choice</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because it lacks the “shock </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">remains an important element</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of everyone’s daily routine </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and is</span>//necessary for survival//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Attack on ag would collapse the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Polyak 2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark, Senior Analyst of Integrated Biodefense @ Georgetown University Medical Center, “The Threat of Agroterrorism: Economics of Bioterrorism,” Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">difficulty in responding to a biological attack on livestock is the high concentration of </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the first few weeks is between $6 and $13 billion.27</span>

**The plan just causes terrorists to look elsewhere**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ervin 2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Clark, director of the Homeland Security Initiative at the Aspen Institute and former inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security, May 7, 2006, “Terrorism's Soft Targets,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/05/05/AR2006050501754.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nearly five years after the Sept. 11, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, attacks, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hard targets, the more likely </span>//an attack on a soft target becomes.//

**History proves terrorists will just adapt**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stewart 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Scott, Stratfor, July 26, 2012, “The Persistent Threat to Soft Targets,” http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/persistent-threat-soft-targets)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">On July 18, just two days before the Colorado attack, a man</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reportedly </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//employed by the U.S. government//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cover every potential target</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT: Nuke Terror</span>=== 

**No motivation to use nukes**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Moodie 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> headed the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute and served as assistant director for multilateral affairs at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency**.** president of the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute (Brad Roberts and Michael Moodie, Biological Weapons: Toward a Threat Reduction Strategy, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/DefHor/DH15/DH15.htm, AG)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The argument about terrorist motivation is also important. </span>**__Terrorists__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> generally </span>**__have not killed as__**

**__AND__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the rest of the international community--to the annihilation of the perpetrators.</span>





**No dirty bomb threat – serious hurdles to use, no mass casualties**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Singer 2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Professor Emeritus, University of Virginia, “Nuclear Terrorism: Facts and Fantasies,” WASHINGTON TIMES, April 5, 2002, npg.)</span>

**__The dirty bomb is mostly hype__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A report based on a three-year </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">gamma rays</span>**__. We therefore conclude that a dirty bomb is mostly hype.__**





**Radioactive sources are difficult to handle – they’ll kill the terrorists before they use them**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson et al. 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles D. Ferguson, Monterey Institute’s Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Tahseen Kazi, Graduate Student, Georgia Institute of Technology, & Judith Perera, nuclear energy consultant, “Commercial Radioactive Sources: Surveying the Security Risks,” DISARMAMENT FORUM n. 2, 2003, pp. 23-28)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To maximize harm to the targeted population, </span>**__radiological terrorists would__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tend </span>**__to seek very__**

**__AND__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">without heavy shielding as long as precautions are taken to minimize internal exposure.</span>





=Space Elevator= 
==Private CP== 
===1NC=== 

**Cp: The United States federal Government should phase out all public ownership and coordination of launch services to the private sector. The United States federal government should maintain necessary government space programs by purchasing launch services on a launch-by-launch basis from the private sector and transfer necessary technical information and assistance to the private sector for constructing a space elevator. The United States federal government should not enforce any law that would otherwise preclude or restrict the aforementioned program.**

**solves**
**Cato Institute 01** (“Cato Handbook for Congress: Policy Recommendations for the 107th Congress” ch. 35 pg. 377 http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb107/hb107-35.pdf)

Congress should phase out the National Aeronautics and SpaceAdministration (NASA). To that end AND serviceswith potential commercial uses; and● build down government civilian space activities.

**AND they have the capacity to deploy**
**Pelton, 2010**
[Joseph N., Research Professor with the Institute for Applied Space Research -- George Washington University, chairs a NASA and the National Science Foundation Panel of Experts that is conducting a global review of satellite telecommunications, “A new space vision for NASA - And for space entrepreneurs too?,” Space Policy 26 (2010) p. 78-80]

Anyone who rereads the Paine Commission report today almost aches for the vision set forth AND the outside will bring significant change [12]. pg. 78-80

===2NC Solvency=== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Private investors will come on board --- the space elevator has a lot of potential</span>
**Foust**, 9/20/**2004** (Jeff – editor and publisher of the Space Review, Elevators and exploration, The Space Review, p. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/229/1]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The current strong interest in nanotechnology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>//opens the door//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to support from the private </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">possible with a space elevator, “it should be a </span>//slam dunk//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


Industry Solves Space Elevator – Return of Lift Port
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Space Review, 09</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (The Space Review, Still on the Ground Floor, August 24th, 2009) http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1451/1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Among those in attendance—as well as one of the key participants—was </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
**__got a warning for misfiling one page of a 100-page document.__**

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Google Labs sole</span>
**LaMonica**, 4/4/**2012** (Martin – senior writer cutting-edge technologies, Google X Labs: First Project Glass, Next Space Elevators?, CNet, p. [[http://news.cnet.com/8301-11386_3-57409402-76/google-x-labs-first-project-glass-next-space-elevators/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What's Google X? Most of what we know about </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Google X Labs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> comes from </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">new technology concepts far better than</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, say </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">IBM</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or Hewlett-Packard.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Private sector is interested in building space elevator</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Evelyn 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Jacob, a student/reporter about space at Yale university, “Outer Space on a Dime”, [[http://www.yaledailynews.com/news/2012/oct/12/outer-space-on-a-dime/]], October 12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA’s final space shuttle mission ended July 2011, to the sadness of countless nerds</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the universe, and the universe is always ready to be explored.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Private sector will want to invest in space and do it cheaper</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Associated Press 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( reporters in Denver that deal with space, “With SpaceX launch, private sector expands reach to space station”, [[http://www.denverpost.com/nationworld/ci_20684815/spacex-launch-private-sector-expands-reach-space-station#ixzz2AGJ82LJ9|http://www.denverpost.com/nationworld/ci_20684815/spacex-launch-private-sector-expands-reach-space-station#ixzz2AGJ82LJ9]], 5/23)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — Opening a new, entrepreneurial era in spaceflight, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">space firms are probably the only way everyday people will get to space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Companies are eager to get into space</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CBS 12</span> (60 minutes the show, very qualified, “Space travel moves to private sector”, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18560_162-57398292/space-travel-moves-to-private-sector/]], 3/15)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">He's already the first private citizen to launch a spaceship into orbit and bring it </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">event," he tells Pelley. "That's really why I started SpaceX."</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Space is a thriving new field that a lot of private companies are interested in</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Chang 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth, reporter of New York times, “Private Sector Edges Deeper in Space”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/science/space/contracts-help-private-sector-edge-deeper-into-space.html?pagewanted=all]], may 14)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It sounds like a routine event for NASA: At 4:55 a.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">do it,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">he said.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> “I’m just going to do it.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>


===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT: CP Doesnt solve NASA</span>=== 

**Reliance on NASA will collapse space dominance**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jou 2k</span>-Ted, Associate in the Washington, DC office of Weil, Gotshal & Manges “The History of the Future of Space” 12/7/2000 [[http://www.ugcs.caltech.edu/~tjou/words/Space.pdf|www.ugcs.caltech.edu/~tjou/words/Space.pdf]]



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the present time, </span>**__the U__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**__has failed to achieve the dominance in__**

**__AND__**

**__will require significant changes in policy, some of which are already in motion__**





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Incentives jumpstart the American space industry, which solves leadership</span>**

Edward **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aldridge</span>__**, et al., Former Secretary of the Air Force, Chair of this Commission, Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June 4, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>__** (http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf)



**__The__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long-term, ambitious </span>**__space agenda__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> advanced by the President for robotic and </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">appropriate property rights for those who seek to develop space resources and infrastructure.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Private development solves US space leadership</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hearsey 2008</span><span style="font-size: 6.5pt;"> (</span>Christopher M. Graduate Student, The American University, Department of Justice, Law & Society The American University, Washington, A Review Of Challenges To Corporate Expansion Into Outer Space http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/Hearsey_CorporateExpansion.pdf)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">True competition in outer space is a goal of the commercial space industry, but </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

**__space market and provide additional incentives to invest and utilize new innovative technologies__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The counterplan boosts US tech leadership</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tumlinson, 2005</span>(Rick, co-founder of the Space Frontier Foundation, “Private Industry Can Help NASA Open the Space Frontier”, Feb. 14, 2005,http://www.samizdata.net/blog/archives/cat_aerospace.html)



**__How do__** self- and **__investor-funded innovators compete against government subsidized systems?__**

**__AND__**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">might be assessed on profits realized from any activities generated by the project.</span>


===2NC NASA Bad=== 
**Political fighting on Washington makes NASA obsolete.**
**Anderson, 03**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (William L. Anderson, Professor of Economics at Frostburg State University, April 2003) http://mises.org/freemarket_detail.aspx?control=434</span>

**__The technological inferiority of NASA manned space gear is__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not unlike the situation that faces </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">steam engines were made were totally dependent upon the government's rail transportation decisions. </span>

**NASA leadership is null and void: Colombia proves**
**Associated Press, 07**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Associated Press, Is NASA culture still broken, July 30, 2007) http://www.military.com/NewsContent/0,13319,144181,00.html?ESRC=topstories.RSS </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. - </span>**__At NASA, once again, the problem is__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a cocky but competent pilot who works and lives hard - a flyboy. </span>

**NASA has management problems and suffers cost overruns**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards 4</span>-Chris, Director of fiscal policy studies at CATO, 6/2/04 “Downsizing the Federal Government” Policy Analysis No. 515 www.offnews.info/downloads/downsizing_fedgov.pdf
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">NASA. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The official report on the Columbia disaster in 2003 found that NASA suffers </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">report in April called attention once again to NASA’s poor financial management. 85 </span>__**


**That results in lack of accountability and partner pullout which we all know is terrible ZING – collpases the investment.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flyvbjerg 10</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the introduction to this article, I mentioned that current spending on infrastructure constitutes </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—began reducing its infrastructure portfolio in 2009, moving into energy instead.</span>


**Public capital makes delays inevitable – that also independently kills the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leeper et al, 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Eric M.professor of Economics at Indiana University and is also affiliated with Monash University and the National Bureau of Economic Research, “GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT AND FISCAL STIMULUS IN THE SHORT AND LONG RUNS,” July 2009, http://www.nber.org/papers/w15153.pdf?new_window=1)</span>

**__So__** __**long as public capital is productive, the expectation of higher infrastructure spending generates**__
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">be severely mitigated if the deﬁcit is retired quickly through distortionary ﬁscal instruments.</span>


**Cuts now thump the DAs**
<span class="citesChar">Freeman 11</span>(Marsha, Director of Industrial Engineering – Fusion Energy Foundation and Space Expert, “Obama Proposes to Kill Science, Space Exploration, and Your Future”, Executive Intelligence Review, 4-29, [[http://www.nasa.gov/offices/ogc/about/space_act1.html|http://www.21stcenturysciencetech.com/Articles_2011/Obama_Kill_Space.pdf]])

For more than a year, the <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Obama</span> White House <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">has waged warfare against</span> the
AND
a half century ago, we can start to tackle the challenges ahead.

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">And -- the CP revitalizes the American space industry, creating a multiplier effect as corporations compete to produce newer, better tech.</span>**
Edward **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aldridge</span>__**, et al., Former Secretary of the Air Force, Chair of this Commission, Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June 4, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>__** (http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf)

__Today an independent space industry does not really exist__. Instead, we have various
AND
such as the development of launch technology in support of space tourism.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(a)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA directly crowds out private sector development</span>**

**HUDGINS ‘7** (Ed, August, “Individualism in Orbit: Morality for the High Frontier”, http://www.atlassociety.org/tni/individualism-orbit-morality-high-frontier, MinR)

__One reason why space is not yet part of humanity’s domain can be found in__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">more than the floor space of the Pentagon, waiting to be homesteaded.</span>

===AT: No money=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Private sector empirical succeeds and attracts investors – SpaceX and Virgin Atlantic</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Economist 9** (9/10/9, The Economist Print Edition, “Flying High”, [[http://www.economist.com/node/14401165?story_id=14401165]]) NYan</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At the behest of the president, NASA has been undergoing an independent review of AND passengers or satellites onwards into space) could be flown from Abu Dhabi.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The private industry now has the funding to compete with government programs.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Meyer 10** (Winter, Zach, Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business Issue 30 Volume 1, “Private Commercialization of Space in an International Regime: A Proposal for a Space District”, [[http://www.iew.unibe.ch/unibe/rechtswissenschaft/dwr/iew/content/e3870/e3985/e4139/e6404/sel-topic_4-privatecommercial_ger.pdf]]) NYan</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space has, however, offeredthe scientific, industrial, commercial and social benefits AND the exploration and use of outer space as much as developed nations. 3</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Private industry has the funds now – demand and investors from private market have shifted the tide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Meyer 10** (Winter, Zach, Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business Issue 30 Volume 1, “</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Private Commercialization of Space in an International Regime: A Proposal for a Space District”, [[http://www.iew.unibe.ch/unibe/rechtswissenschaft/dwr/iew/content/e3870/e3985/e4139/e6404/sel-topic_4-privatecommercial_ger.pdf]]) NYan</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As discussed in Part I, private commercial space enterprise has recently demonstrated that it AND is a willing financier for space enterprise if there is something to gain.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Business competition reduces the cost of development -- makes it commercially feasible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Boaz 08** — executive vice president of the Cato Institute, former editor of New Guard magazine and was executive director of the Council for a Competitive Economy prior to joining Cato in 1981, author of Libertarianism: A Primer, editor of The Libertarian Reader, and coeditor of the Cato Handbook For Policymakers. His articles have been published in the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times, National Review, and Slate. He is a frequent guest on national television and radio shows, and has appeared on ABC's Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher, CNN's Crossfire, NPR's Talk of the Nation and All Things Considered, John McLaughlin's One on One, Fox News Channel, BBC, Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, and other media. His latest book is The Politics of Freedom (Sept 15, 2008, David, “Space Privatization–from Cato to the BBC” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/space-privatization-from-cato-to-the-bbc/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The completion of the International Space Station (ISS) comes with a price tag AND people with a track record of commercial achievement are yearning to get involved.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prefer our evidence -- theirs doesn’t assume this reduction in cost</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Worden, 2004 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Simon, Brigadier General (USAF, Retired), a Fellow in the office of Senator Sam Brownback on detail from the University of Arizona where he is a Research Professor of Astronomy, was Director of Transformation at the Space and Missiles Systems Center, Los Angeles Air Force Base. As the staff officer for initiatives in the first Bush administration's National Space Council, he spearheaded efforts to revitalize our civil space exploration and earth monitoring programs. General Worden has written or co-authored more than 150 technical papers in astrophysics, space science and strategic studies. He was scientific co-investigator for two NASA space lab missions, Marshall Institute, “Private Sector Opportunities and the President’s Space Exploration Vision” 4-7, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/230.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These cost estimates assume no improvement in space access cost. There are people who AND the possibility of doing space exploration with private sector efforts is pretty significant.</span>




==India Reverse Brain Drain DA== 
===1NC=== 

**India would begin work on a space elevator absent the plan – their gaining tech workforce. Independently key to Indian power projection**
**Semon**, **3/30/2007** (Ted, - author of the Space Elevator Blog, Emerging Asia, p. http://www.spaceelevatorblog.com/?p=579)

During the recently completed SESI2007 conference, I gave a presentation on who, IMHO AND in the building a Space Elevator would be a perfect project for them.

**Plan kills Indian aerospace – forces reverse brain drain**
**CTP 08** (Control Theory Pro, 10 – 30 – 08, “Reverse Brain Drain..”, http://blogs.controltheorypro.com/tag/brain-drain/)

A large chunk of our imported engineers come from India. Often they come here AND many would like to go home if they can find good job opportunities.

**Kills the Indian economy**
**Desai et al 9** – Chair of Doctoral Programs at the Harvard Business School (Mihir, with Devesh Kapur, Associate Professor for the Study of Contemporary India, and John McHale and Keith Rogers, Queens University of Ontario, “The fiscal impact of high-skilled emigration: Flows of Indians to the US,” Journal of Development Economics 88 (2009) 32–34, Elsevier)

Human capital outflows of this magnitude will influence a developing country in myriad ways— AND ex ante design of fiscal policy, typically in an optimal taxation framework.

**Indopak war – goes global**
**Bouton 10** (Marshall M., President – Chicago Council on Global Affairs, “America’s Interests in India”, CNAS Working Paper, October, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_USInterestsinIndia_ Bouton.pdf)

In South Asia, the most immediately compelling U.S. interest is preventing AND and terrorism, and much greater potential for unchecked interstate and civil conflict.


==Aerospace Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**Multiple Thumps -**
**Private R&D and labor shortage**
Adam **Segal**, Maurice R. Greenberg Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, 11-17-**04** Is America Losing Its Edge? Foreign Affairs, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/display.article?id=4893

Privately funded industrial R&D, meanwhile-which accounts for over 60 percent AND significant drops in applications to U.S. graduate programs this year.

**No market prevents investment-investors don’t think they will get returns.**
**Livingston**, adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University, **1999**
(David, “The Obstacles to Financing New Space Industries”, 8-13, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/the_obstacles_to_financing_new_space_industries.shtml, ldg, DOA: 5-3-11)

Despite this potential, there are obstacles to financing NSIs and the additional commercialization of AND make additional investments in these companies resulting in significant problems for the industry.


==Debris Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**Multiple safeguards prevent accidents and de-targeting means that a weapon would just explode in the ocean**
**Slocombe 9** (Walter, senior advisor for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad and a former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, he is a four-time recipient of an award for Distinguished Public Service and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, “De-Alerting: Diagnoses, Prescriptions, and Side-Effects,” Presented at the seminar on Re-framing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the US-Russia Context in Yverdon, Switzerland, June 21-23)

Let’s start with Technical Failure – the focus of a great deal of the advocacy AND remain available for authorized use but not susceptible of appropriation or mistaken use.

**Russia doesn’t rely on their warning systems –Even if Russia’s EWS sucks, U.S. has time to identify to respond.**
Pavel **Podvig 06** June, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford U, “Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch” Science and Global Security Vol. 14:75-115 http://russianforces.org/podvig/eng/publications/20061000sgs.shtml#_ftn21

In terms of warning time, the United States has dual advantage over Russia. AND overall probability of a launch triggered by this alarm is not necessarily lower.

**Use control devices and motion sensors prevent unauthorized launch.**
**Busch 04** [Nathan, Senior Research Associate at Center for International Trade and Security at UGA, No End in Sight, p. 100]

Russian ICBMs and ICBM silos have sophisticated use-control devices. First, it AND these cases, the launch mecha¬nism for the ICBM would be automatically disabled.

**Bird Flu impacts are exaggerated – They will not mutate and vaccines check.**
**Fumento 06** (Michael Fumento is a senior fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington D.C. The American Spectator December 6th -- lexis)

While doomsayers with extremely old wall calendars continue to invoke the devastating 1918-1919 AND prevent and treat avian flu in the highly unlikely event there is pandemic.

==NASA Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**Squo solves Sci Dip**
**Sackett 10** (Penny, Chief Scientist for Australia former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories, August 10, 2010, Penny, Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/ )

Many countries have recognised the value of science diplomacy. In March this year, AND science envoy posts, one in Brussels and the other in Washington DC.

**Also – your impact card says Australia should do science diplomacy - it also says unilateral actions are bad…**
**Sackett 10** (Penny, Chief Scientist for Australia former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories, August 10, 2010, Penny, Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/ )

As one single individual or one single nation, Australians and Australia is neither AND scientific diplomacy, and multiply our greater diplomatic efforts on the global stage.

**This card is about HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT – this advantage is a DOUBLE TURN – instead of focusing on NASA priorities it focueses on a decadal long launch program that does NOTHING.**
**Logsdon (their card) 07**

Griffin went even further in his analysis: “Imagine if you will a world AND the rest of the world see the United States as a great country.

**Your other impact –**
**Friedman (Their card) 10**

The spirit of space—optimism for the future—has been sadly lacking in AND that NASA can focus on exploration and new achievements in human space flight.

**Organizational problems in NASA make accidents inevitable**
**Schreiber & Carly 5** -Craig, Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon University Kathleen, professor in the School of Computer Science in the department - Institute for Software Research - at Carnegie Mellon University, “Ineffective Organizational Practices at NASA: A Dynamic NetworkAnalysis” February 2005 Avaliable Online

In 2003 many organizational problems within NASA were cited by the Columbia Investigation Board ( AND practices can only be understood by taking the lower level interactions into account.

==Solvency== 
===1NC=== 

**Space elevator is impossible --- physics, lack of technology, and other barriers**
**Kluger**, 11/21/**2011** (Jeffrey, An Elevator to Space? Better Take the Stairs, Time, p. http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2099830,00.html)

Some ideas just refuse to go away: trickle-down economics, the bolo AND kazillion zillion — or €10.05 kazillion zillion at today's close.

**Many threats facing the space elevator**
**Kent 07** - Major, USAF, PE (Jason, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. “Getting To Space On A Thread, Space Elevator As Alternative Space Access” April 2007)#SPS

There are many threats facing those operating a space elevator. These threats include: AND politics involved makes the operation of the space elevator an extremely challenging prospect.


=Nuclearism/Masco= 
==Not TI CP== 
===1NC=== 

**Text: Vote neg to increase our intellectual investment by recognizing that nuclear evacuation plans legitimize unnecessary risk**

**TI is ablist**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Imrie 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**__Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly circumscribed by sociocultural attitudes, practices, and__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">are demanding, not to have their needs defined and met by others''.</span>

**Prior question**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hughes 07</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University Bill Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In summary, </span>**__the universalistic approach to ontology in disability studies__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that I have sketched </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">p. 164) </span>**__that regularly misrepresent and sometimes destroy disabled peoples lives.__**

===**__2NC__**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed disabled populations from society by denying them of their mobility</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AAPD, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)</span>

**__Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">**Their entire strategy is based on an overly rational bureaucracy that enables mass violence against disabled populations in the first place** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Hughes, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to embrace the abnormally normal. It makes </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">ferocity of an ultimate recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">’</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Phyiscal obsticles are the most important thing</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Imrie 2k</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])</span>

//Mobility and movement are core to people's identities//<span class="TitleChar">, life experiences, and opportunities.</span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.</span>



==**__Deterrence DIsad__**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taiwan crisis inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shlapak, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">David A. Shlapak, Senior International Policy Analyst @ RAND, et al, 2009, “A Question of Balance,” RAND, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG888.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The factors described in this chapter present something of a mixed bag, and their </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">of forces </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">seems to remove an important impediment to Chinese use of force.</span>


**The aff’s ethics kill deterrence and our ability to respond to nuclear conflicts – squo also checks your impacts.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dunlap 97 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, “Taming Shiva: Applying International Law to Nuclear Operations”, 42 A.F.L. Rev 157, 1997, [[http://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=5202&context=faculty_scholarship]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like the Hindu deity Shiva, </span><span class="TitleChar">a nuclear weapon has inherent duality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: it can </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//the war is being conducted in an unfair, inhumane, or iniquitous way//

**Chinese invasion of Taiwan escalates and causes nuclear holocaust**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hsiung, 01</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">- Professor of Politics and International Law at NYU (James, 21st Century World Order and the Asia Pacific, p. 359-360)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Admittedly, it is harmless for an analyst like Lind to be so oblivious of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a sine qua non for geopolitical peace in the Asia Pacific region.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Independently – nuclear war is inevitable without deterrence kills heg</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press, 2009 (</span>Keir Lieber, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, and, Daryl Press, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, November/December 2009, “The Nukes We Need,” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 88 No 6. )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the coming decades, </span><span class="underline">the United States may find itself facing nuclear-armed </span>
<span class="underline">AND</span>
<span class="underline">their nuclear arsenals to force a cease-fire and remain in power.</span>



**Primacy solves war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>



**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Claims of imperialism are wrong- the U.S. military is a force for peace</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barnett, 11</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">- </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that we stand at a crossroads </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a profound and persistent reduction in battle deaths from state-based conflicts.</span>__

==<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Case</span>== 
===<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1NC</span>=== 

**1. Positivism is inevitable – without it we cant construct any theory – the possibility of some flawed theory construction is better than epistemological anarchy**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Vernon, Cadiff University, 2/27/11, “The Reflectivist Critique of Positivist IR Theory,”[[http://www.e-ir.info/?p=7328]] ]</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is a great deal of support for the positivist approach in IR despite the </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>

<span class="TitleChar">be self-reflective and continually evolving, could provide the stability needed.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Expertism is Good – we can make accurate predictions </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doremus, 1997</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Holly, Professor of Law at the University, 75 Wash. U. L. Q. 1029, Lexis)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hunches and incompletely confirmed intuitions are both less objective and less reliable than theories which </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the background knowledge against which novel data and theories must be interpreted. n222 </span>



**3. Social Justice Turn – __participation will boost majoritarian interest__**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mohammadi ‘10</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Hamid Mohammadi, Assistant Professor at Yazd University and also holds an Urban Planning PhD from Kassel University – from the Book Citizen Participation in Urban Planning and Management: The Case of Iran, Shiraz City, Saadi Community – Page 23-25</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.4.1. Theoretical Critiques Susan Fainstein (2000) believes that</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">between individual liberty, </span><span class="TitleChar">distributional questions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="TitleChar">social justice— and democratic decisions.</span>



4. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Attempting to reversee technological advancement dooms the environment to catastrphe – we must apply tech and instrumental rationality </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bronner, 2004</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen Eric, Professor of Political Science at Rutgers University, “Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement”, p.162-163)</span>



<span class="TitleChar">Critics of the Enlightenment may have correctly emphasized the price of progress</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the costs </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">transcend the crude cate­gories of technical criteria and slide-rule measurements.”7</span>


**And – Extinction**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Diner, 1994</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Major David N., U.S. Army, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?”, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Winter, Lexis)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By causing widespread extinctions, humans have artificially simplified many ecosystems. As biologic simplicity </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 80 </span><span class="TitleChar">[hum]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>



**5. Act in face of uncertainty or forever study things that can never get fully flushed-out.**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cochran ‘99</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Molly Cochran Assistant Professor of International Affairs @ Georgia Institute for Technology, Normative Theory in International Relations. 1999, Page 272</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">To conclude this chapter, while modernist and postmodernist debates continue, while we are </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">pragmatic critique can be a useful ally to feminist and normative theorists generally.</span>


**AND – Predictions solve extinction**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayward 06</span> (Peter C., Ph.D. from Swinburne University of Technology, From Individual to Social Foresight, The Case for Foresight, November 8, http://adt.lib.swin.edu.au/uploads/approved/adt-VSWT20061108.153623/public/02whole.pdf)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second response is commonly referred to as `TINA', (There Is No </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">thereby, in some small way, to the trajectory towards preferable futures.</span>


**6. Conflict is inevitable – force of human behavior – we can’t change it – only work in the system**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wendt 92</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Alexander, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Chicago, International Organization, v46 n2</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let us assume that processes of identity- and interest-formation have created </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="TitleChar">identities and in have become institutionalized, </span>//they are almost impossible to transform.//


=NextGen= 
==Solvency== 
===1NC=== 
Physical capacities can’t match the airspace demand – no short-term offense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AEI 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[American Enterprise Institute is a private, nonpartisan, not-for-profit institution dedicated to research and education on issues of government, politics, economics and social welfare. Writer, Evan Sparks, is a writer and editor based in Washington, D.C. where he is currently managing editor of Philanthropy. He was an associate editor at the American Enterprise Institute, where he created a blog on aviation policy. In 2009-2010, he was an inaugural Washington Fellow of the National Review Institute. “How to Fix Airport Delays” [[http://american.com/archive/2007/october-10-07/how-to-fix-airport-delays]], 10-3-2007] Lin</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Long-term transformation of ATC—and with it, a reduction in delays</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">inevitable, congestion pricing is the least intrusive way to go about it.</span>

Implementation fails – no coordination, connectivity, or surveillance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JPOD 08</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Joint Planning and Development Office, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">plans and coordinates the development of the NGATS through multi-agency cooperation with the DoT, the DoD, the FAA, and the DHS, among others. Integrated Surveillance for the Next Generation Air Transportation System. </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20090030052_2009016948.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">) cass</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There are known organizational barriers to achieving NextGen surveillance objectives that must be addressed before </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">future technologies and other capabilities across agencies to achieve synergy in Integrated Surveillance. </span>
Personnel and management mean it fails
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards, fellow at Cato, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. (Chris, expert on federal and state tax and budget policies, “Air Traffic Control: Too Important for Government”, Cato @ Liberty, 04/20/11, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/air-traffic-control-too-important-for-government/, 07/10/12, Chin)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The government’s air traffic controllers have been sleeping on the job, watching movies rather </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">disciplined workforce, more efficient financing, better technology, and safer skies.</span>
Jamming takes out the aff
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sheridan 12</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(John, staff writer for Aviation Online, “Rise of GPS Interference Raises Concerns for NextGen”, 04/02/112, AD: 07/14/12, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2012-04-02/rise-gps-interference-raises-concerns-nextgen]] | Kushal/Sehee</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Today, most of us would probably rate cellphones, ATMs and the Internet as </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the backup systems proposed for NextGen adequate for the long-term future?</span>
==Grid== 
===1NC=== 
**Grid stable now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kemp 12</span> -- Reuters market analyst (John, 4/5/12, "COLUMN-Phasors and blackouts on the U.S. power grid: John Kemp," http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/04/05/column-smart-grid-idUSL6E8F59W120120405)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The hoped-for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">solution to grid instability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is something called the North American SynchroPhasor </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">so that grid managers can </span>//act quickly//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to </span>//restore balance//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> or </span>//isolate failures//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ().</span>

**Grids resilient – backup solves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wood 12</span> -- Senior Communications Advisor at Business Roundtable (Carter, 8/2/12, "The grid: After India, America? No, but still…" http://businessroundtable.org/blog/the-grid-after-india-america-no-but-still/)

//A blackout of such scale could not happen in the U//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates. For one </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the root cause, they'll probably find that was somewhere in there.</span>

**Backup capacity solves blackouts**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aimone 9-12</span> (Dr. Michael, Director of Business Enterprise Integration – Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment), “Statement Before the House Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies,” 2012, http://homeland.house.gov/sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20-%20Aimone.pdf)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">DoD’s facility energy strategy is also focused heavily on grid securityin the name of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, to Keesler Air Force Base in Mississippi, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to support base recovery</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

==Economy== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No trade shut down</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahearn 9</span>__** [Raymond, CRS Specialist in International Trade and Finance, “The Global Economic Downturn and Protectionism,” March 23, 2009, http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/19395.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of reasons why </span>__the threat of a return to protectionist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(both investigations initiated and imposition of duties) surged in 2008.”13</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collapse doesn’t cause war – prefer modern statistical studies over IR abstractions</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller, economist, 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span>**__Do wars spring from__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a popular reaction to a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>


**Can’t solve congestion – air carriers will just increase flights – empirics prove**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Barkowski, business lawyer, 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Justin T. Barkowski is graduated from Pepperdine University School of Law and was admitted to the Bar. Mr. Barkowski received the Ronald Sorenson Award and, prior to attending Pepperdine, he graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, where he studied economics. Mr. Barkowski is an instrumentrated private pilot and is active in the firm’s business litigation and insurance law practices.</span> “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Managing Air Traffic Congestion Through the Next Generation Air Transportation System: Satellite Based Technology, Trajectories, and - Privatization?” [[http://digitalcommons.pepperdine.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1039&context=plr]], 2-2-2012] Lin</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">With or without an ATC commercialization debate, the airlines and the new Secretary of </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">analysis must examine functions of both actors in order to propose effective solutions.</span>


**Rising fuel and reorganization costs are an alt cause**
**Smith 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – staff writer(Aaron, “American Airlines loses another $1.7 billion”, CNNMoney, 19 April 2012, [[http://money.cnn.com/2012/04/19/news/companies/american-airlines/index.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The parent of American Airlines, which went into </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a lot of money for the company that's handing out the severance packages.</span>

**Aviation’s not key to the economy – they conflate correlation and causation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whitelegg, prof transport, 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, John, PhD, Professor of Sustainable Transport at Liverpool John Moores University and Professor of Sustainable Development at University of York's Stockholm Environment Institute. The Economics of Aviation: a North West England perspective. April 2003. [[http://www.areco.org/Economics%20of%20Aviation.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The industry also claims that its own activities generate or support large numbers of jobs </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transport is likely to be modest</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The aviation industry is heavily subsidized.</span>

==Drones== 
===1NC=== 
**The industry is resilient**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wharton 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wharton Aerospace & Defense Report, “Despite Economic Turbulence, U.S. Aerospace Industry Shows Resilience”, 12-18, http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/Economic-Turbulence-1208.cfm)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The aerospace industry is showing resiliency navigating through turbulent economic times</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — even ending 2008 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the year — about 10,000 more than the average for 2007.</span>

**Private sector will fill in to solve aerospace**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grueber and Studt’ 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Martin Grueber, Research Leader, Batelle, Cleveland, Ohio and Tim Studt, Editor-in-Chief, Advantage Business Media, Elk Grove Village, Illinois, December 5, 2010. [[http://www.rdmag.com/Feature-Articles/2010/12/Policy-And-Industry-Government-Funding-2011-Global-RD-Funding-Forecast-Industrial-RD-Aerospace-Defense-Security/]]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Against this backdrop of impending fiscal pressure are additional concerns over the allocations within the </span>__**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">look to the private sector to find new ways to help finance innovation</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Aerospace Industry actually growing – most qualified indicators prove**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AMD 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Aerospace Manufacturing & Design Magazine [Positive predictions for 2011, FEBRUARY 2011, [[http://www.onlineamd.com/amd-0211-positive-predictions-2011.aspx]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The AERO Indicator Say it all in one number. Are we safe and on </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For detailed information about the AeroWeb, go to barrgroupaerospace.com. </span>

**Primacy is completely sustainable –** **The U****.S****. dominates all power categories****.**
**Brooks & Wohlforth 08**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Associate Professors of Government at Dartmouth College (Stephen G. & William C., World Out of Balance, p. 27-31)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“</span>__Nothing has ever existed like this disparity of power__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">; nothing,” historian Paul </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">one thing; being the world’s single superpower on the cheap is astonishing.”</span>

**3. Hegemony doesn’t solve war.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Barbara </span>**Conry 97**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, foreign policy analyst at Cato, 2/5/1997, U.S. Global Leadership, p. http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-267.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Other </span>__proponents of U.S__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">. political and military </span>__leadership__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> do not point to </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">into it, as it did in Somalia and Bosnia. [59]</span>
==Emissions== 
===1NC=== 
**Status quo solves – emissions reduced now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 2009 (</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Aviation and Climate Change: Aircraft Emissions Expected to Grow, but Technological and Operational Improvements and Government Policies Can Help Control Emissions June 8, 2009 Statement of Susan Fleming, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues. June 8, 2009 This is a GAO report. LexisNexis.) FOSTER</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The fuel efficiency of commercial jet aircraft has improved over time.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> According to IPCC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. airlines reduced fuel burn and emissions while transporting more passengers and cargo.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, commercial aviation has become less energy intensive over time--that is, to transport a single passenger a single mile uses less energy than it previously did, measured in British thermal units. See figure 3 showing energy intensity over time of aviation and other modes of transportation.</span>

**Turn – more flights increase emissions – the plan also lacks necessary policies**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tomer and Puentes, senior researchers, 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Adie Tomer is a senior research associate and associate fellow at the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program and a member of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. He holds a master’s in Public Policy from American University and a B.A. from the University of Florida. Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. “Expect Delays: An Analysis of Air Travel Trends in the United States” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/10/08%20air%20travel%20tomer%20puentes/1008_air_travel_report.pdf]], October 2009] Lin</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmental approach. FAA has yet to make decisions regarding how environmental reviews can be </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 27</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and will require substantial planning and safety and cost analyses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**International emissions outweigh the aff**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reuters 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 5/24/12 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/05/24/2011-global-co2-emissions-china_n_1542785.html]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China spurred a jump in global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to their highest </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Additional reporting by Gus Trompiz and Muriel Boselli; editing by Jason Neely)</span>

**Alt causes means they don’t solve pollution**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brook et al 4</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, (Robert D., MD, Associate Professor at the Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan *AND Barry A. Franklin, PhD, Director of the Cardiac Rehabilitation Program and Exercise Laboratories, William Beaumont Hospital, Professor of Physiology, Wayne State University, School of Medicine, *AND Wayne Cascio, MD, Former Director of Cardiovascular Research at the Center for Environmental Medicine, Asthma and Lung Biology at UNC Chapel Hill, Former Medical Director of the Clinical Electrocardiography Laboratory at the University of North Carolina Hospitals, *AND Yuling Hong, MD, PhD, Associate Director for Science, Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, National Institutes of Health, *AND George Howard, PhD, Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Alabama–Birmingham, *AND Michael Lipsett, MD, Chief of the Environmental Health Investigations Branch, California Department of Public Health, *AND Russell Luepker, MD, Mayo Professor of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, *AND Murray Mittleman, MD, ScD, Associate Professor in the Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Harvard University, *AND Jonathan Samet, MD, founding director of the USC Institute for Global Health, Flora L. Thornton Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine of the Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, *AND Sidney C. Smith Jr, MD, professor of medicine and director of the Academic Center for Cardiovascular Disease, University of North Carolina, *AND Ira Tager, MD, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology, University of California Berkeley, June 1, 2004, “Air Pollution and Cardiovascular Disease,” American Heart Association, http://circ.ahajournals.org/content/109/21/2655.full, Hensel)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The numerous natural and anthropogenic sources of PM include motor vehicle emissions, tire fragmentation </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).</span>


**No impact to oceans—its resilient**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idso, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - the founder and chairman of the board of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, PhD in Geography from ASU (1/5/2010, Dr. Craig D. Idso, Science and Public Policy Institute, “’ACID TEST: The Global Challenge Of Ocean Acidification’ – A New Propaganda Film By The National Resources Defense Council Fails The Acid Test Of Real World Data,” Science and Public Policy Institute and the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change. CS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These several </span>**__findings__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to Tunnicliffe et al., </span>**__attest to "the extent__**
**__AND__**
**__conceived would not prove a major detriment to most calcifying sea life.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 29 </span>

**No warming – History and scientific study prove. Scientists exaggerate studies to get research grants.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jaworowski 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman of Scientific Council of the Central Laboratory for Radiological Protection in Warsaw, Chair of UN Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation [Prof. Zbigniew “Fear Propaganda” http://www.ourcivilisation.com/aginatur/cycles/chap3.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doomsayers preaching </span>**__the horrors of warming are not troubled by the fact that in the__**
**__AND__**
**__20th Century hurricanes__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the Atlantic Ocean (Figure 4,) and </span>**__worldwide__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**2. No warming, top scientists confirm. IPCC temperature records are unreliable.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leake ‘10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Science and Environment Editor for the Sunday Times</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathon, 2/14/10, “World may not be warming, say scientists”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/environment/article7026317.ece)</span>

**__It warned that greenhouse gases had already heated the world by__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 0.7C and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__least twice before in the last 1,000 years,__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” he said.</span>
=ITV Aff= 
==North Korea / Detterrence Advantage== 
**Deterrence fails – preemptive pressures and lack of control in new nuclear states**
**Clark, ‘97**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> director of the national security studies program at California State University 97 [Mark T., “Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age-book reviews: Neorealism versus Organizational Theory,” http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0365/is_n1_v41/ai_19238111]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Sagan's critique is a healthy antidote to Waltz's optimism. In his view, there </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">amounts of time, talent, and treasure into </span>__developing its nuclear program.__


**Deterrence theories rely on false assumptions of state rationality – organizations are constrained by conflicting interests and calculation uncertainties**
**Clark, ‘97**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> director of the national security studies program at California State University 97 [Mark T., “Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age-book reviews: Neorealism versus Organizational Theory,” http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0365/is_n1_v41/ai_19238111]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps even more important is Sagan's critique of Waltz's assumptions about rational deterrence logic. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">in the policy process, often defying authority</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> for long periods of time.</span>




**North Korea won’t attack- even if they did it wouldn’t escalate**
**Swami 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- Diplomatic editor of telegraph.co.uk (Praveen, “Why North Korean strike will not trigger world war three,”11/23/10, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/8154274/Why-North-Korean-strike-will-not-trigger-world-war-three.html]], CJC)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">South Korea is one of the engines of Asian prosperity, on which the world's </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Kashmir in 1999, </span>__a year after both countries tested their nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**2. No war- and resource shortages mean war wouldn’t escalate**
**Edwards 10** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">­– International development specialist and policy analyst (Michael, “Full-scale war on Korean peninsula ‘unlikely’,” 11/25/10, [[http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/11/24/3075727.htm]], CJC)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"I actually think that </span>__they can absorb a lot of provocation because the risk__
__AND__
__for much more than a month before they actually run out of fuel.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">" </span>


**3. No conflict**
**a. The north is too weak**
Sydney Morning Herald, 10<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">(5/29/10, “North Korean war unlikely, say analysts”, http://www.lexisnexis.com)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“China refuses scheming against NK with the US," read the front page banner </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">] is a positive for the regime, or they wouldn't do it."</span>

**b. would hurt the regime**
**Reuters, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (3/17/10, Jon Herskovitz, “North Korea may turn more menacing but options limited,” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62G12T20100317]], JMP) ***Note – B.R. Myers is an expert on the North's ideology at Dongseo University**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">CHINA TO THE RESCUE? </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">While the parlous state of his economy may give Kim </span>__</span>**
**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__</span>**
**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the position of having to fend off global criticism for propping up Pyongyang. </span>__</span>**

4. No escalation –
a. empirical
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Strobel and Landay, 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Foreign affairs correspondent, reporter (Warren and Jonathan, 5/25/10, Yahoo News, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?” [[http://news.yahoo.com/s/mcclatchy/20100525/wl_mcclatchy/3516222]])</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">It's not inevitable that it will escalate," said</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Mitchell </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reiss , who negotiated </span>__</span>**
**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">out of a joint industrial park in the northern border town of Kaesong.</span>**

b. South doesn’t want to freak out investors
Kim, 10 **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">6/16 (6/16/10, Jack, Reuters, “Q+A - How serious is the Korean crisis and risk of war?” [[http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-49340820100616]], JMP)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has repeated its threat to take military action </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>**
**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">as long as the two Koreas stop short of all-out war.</span>__</span>**


Presence prevents North invasion of South
Huessy, 03 **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560]], JMP)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">However, Carpenter has long advocated a unilateral withdrawal of our U.S. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">blockade of Taiwan by the PRC portrayed by Patrick Robinson in Kilo Class.</span>**


China will prevent North Korean collapse – It’s in their best interest.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Fred </span>**Kaplan 09**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> April 6th, “How Do You Solve a Problem Like Kim Jong-il?” Slate, http://www.slate.com/id/2215488/</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">China is the one country that could crack the rod. </span>__Nearly all North Korea's__**
**__AND__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">harsh penalties,</span>__China's spokesmen were downplaying the event as no big deal__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**

The transition will be smooth – It’s empirically proven. And, North Korea’s garrison state prevents abrupt regime collapse.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Dr. Leonid</span>**Petrov 08**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> September 12, “Uncertainty continues over North Korean leader's health” North Korea specialist, Australian National University, Canberra. Radio Australia. http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/programguide/stories/200809/s2362670.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">PETROV: Well it is still not clear because at you know that North Korea </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__reform. So that's why it survived, but does not really change__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

=Cap / Zizek Aff= 
==Cap Advantage== 
===1NC=== 
**Transportation infrastructure conceals the attachment of the accident to the machine**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa, 2004</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – P.h. D. in Rhetoric from UT, Department of Rhetoric and Communication Studies at Richmond (Kevin, Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions, Rhizomes, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm]]) //BZ//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">From Einstein, Virilio sprints through a chain reaction of the last 50 years of </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">trajectories, Virilio (1993, p212) inverts the substance of accidents:</span>//

//**Current U.S. laws make stopping genocide impossible – Trials prove**//
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">David </span>**Kaye 07**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, visiting prof. at Whittier Law School, previous legal advisor to the U.S. Embassy in The Hague. 3/1, 2007 Thursday Home Edition Section: Main News; Editorial Pages Desk; Part A; p25 “It's too hard to prove genocide.”</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">DOES THE international law against genocide have force today? Or is it that genocide</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>//
//__escape the conclusion that proving responsibility for genocide is now an impossible task__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>//

//**Capitalism isn’t the root cause—**//
//**a. Their methodology sweeps all specificity under the rug**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Geras 2005 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Norman, Emeritus Professor of Politics at the Unieversity of Manchester, “The Reductions of the Left” __Dissent__, 52:1, Winter, p. 57-58) </span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The second part of the answer to which I now turn- is a seeming </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- level and at the macro- level, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">involving large social forces.</span>__//

//**Manifestations of violence and oppression are specific phenomenon- claims that capitalism is the root cause divert critical energy into dead end**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Geras 05 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Norman, Emeritus Professor of Politics at the University of Manchester, “The Reductions of the Left,” __Dissent__, 52:1, Winter, p. 58-59)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is necessary to recognize the weight and causality of these things, both in </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">egalitarian values that have always been at the heart of broad socialist tradition.</span>//


//**They cause transition wars—**//
//*Transition turns your impacts – people will cling to the current economic system – elitism is really entrenched – makes alt solvency impossible//
//**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Barnhizer 6</span> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,”**// **Georgetown International Environmental Law Review //(18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)//**

**//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The scale of social needs, including the need for expanded productive activity, has </span>//**
**//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, place economic and social justice high on a list of priorities. n60</span>//**
**//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The imperative of economic growth applies not only to the needs and expectations of people in economically developed societies but also to people living in nations that are currently economically underdeveloped. </span>Opportunities must be created, jobs must be generated<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in huge numbers, </span>and economic resources expanded to address the tragedies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of poverty and inequality. Unfortunately, natural systems must be exploited to achieve this; </span>//we cannot return to Eden//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The question is not how to achieve a static state but how to achieve what is needed to advance social justice while avoiding and mitigating the most destructive consequences of our behavior</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//**

//__Turn__—Mindset shifts trigger a __rebound mechanism__—people will just increase other types of consumption or they will save, making borrowing easier for others.//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Van den Bergh 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Jeroen C.J.M. van den Bergh works at the Spain Institute for Environmental Science and Technology and at the Department of Economics and Economic History at the Universitat Autònoma in Barcelona and a member of the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, and Institute for Environmental Studies, VU University Amsterdam (“Environment versus growth — A criticism of ‘degrowth’ and a plea for ‘a-growth’,” Published in </span>**//**Ecological Economics, //Volume 70, Issue 5 (15 March 2011), Pages 881–890, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions at <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921800910004209]])</span>//**

**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A problem with focusing directly on </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consumption degrowth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is that it </span>//may activate a rebound**
**AND//**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">role of environmental regulation through prices (taxes, levies or tradable permits). </span>**

Psychoanalysis Fails—
Science disproves it
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bunge 10 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mario, philosopher at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, “Should Psychoanalysis Be in the Science Museum?” [[http://stirling-westrup-tt.blogspot.com/2010/11/tt-ns-2780-robert-bud-and-mario-bunge.html]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We should congratulate the Science Museum for setting up an exhibition on psychoanalysis. Exposure </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">than a century</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in contrast with scientific psychology, which is thriving.</span>**

Falsifiability should come first
Coyne, 06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential aspects of most religions, play no role in </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>
politics and religion, we desperately need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.



=Anthropocentrism Aff= 
==Advantage== 
===1NC=== 
**The idea that animals are equal to humans results in a devaluation of all life, makes the worst atrocities possible**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schmahmann and Polacheck, 1995</span> (David R. and Lori J., Partners in the firm of Nutter, McLennan & Fish, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, Spring)
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the end, however, it is the aggregate of these characteristics that does </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">only </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">took the place of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the human being and </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the Colorado beetle</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. 26</span>
**The plan causes massive expansion of governmental authority resulting in totalitarianism**
<span class="SmalltextCharCharCharChar">**__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schmahmann & Polacheck, 1995</span>__**</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (David R., Lori, Partners in the firm of Nutter, McLennan & Fish, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, Spring)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Reason, history, and an entire intellectual tradition compel a conclusion that</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">any notion </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">of the interests of animals conducted without reference to human interests or experience.</span>
**Suffering is not part of the human condition – rather, it is a result of specific circumstances. Even if some suffering is inevitable, there are degress**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eagen, 2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (jennifer, “Philisophical interests” September 9 http://home.earthlink.net/~jeagan/id3.html) </span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Suffering is the theme of two of my published papers, which both examine the </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">e.g., gender). I'm looking forward to exploring this further.</span>
**Anthropocentrism is inevitable—the alternative links to the critique and makes it impossible to protect the biosphere.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grey 93</span> — William Grey, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Queensland, 1993 (“Anthropocentrism and Deep Ecology,” Australiasian Journal of Philosophy, Volume 71, Number 4, Available Online at http://www.uq.edu.au/~pdwgrey/pubs/anthropocentrism.html, Accessed 07-27-2011)

<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The attempt to provide a</span> genuinely <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">non-anthropocentric set of values</span>, or preferences
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">, and ourselves, going for a few more cosmic seconds</span> [10].

**Default to proximate causes – root cause theory is false**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sharpe 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, lecturer, philosophy and psychoanalytic studies, and Goucher, senior lecturer, literary and psychoanalytic studies – Deakin University (Matthew and Geoff, __Žižek and Politics: An Introduction__, p. 231 – 233)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We realise that this argument, which we propose as a new ‘quilting’ framework </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">today </span>**__pointedly reject Theory’s legitimacy,__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">neither reading it nor taking it seriously.</span>



**Their radical devotion to ecocentrism fails and collapses into nihilism.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 95</span> — Charles S. Brown, Professor of Philosophy at Emporia State University, 1995 (“Anthropocentrism and Ecocentrism: the quest for a new worldview,” The Midwest Quarterly, Volume 36, Number 2, Winter, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Information Access)

<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Deep ecologists regularly urge us to replace our anthropocentrism with</span> an <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">ecocentrism</span> which advocates egalitarian
AND
lives of a family of rats in an expression of this evolutionary imperative.

**Non-anthropocentrism promotes detachment which is conducive to the destruction of the biosphere**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Manson 2009</span> (Neil A, Neil A. Manson is a philosopher at the University of Mississippi. He is the editor of God and Design: The Teleological Argument and Modern Science, and is the author of a number of articles on the topic, “NECESSARY ANTHROPOCENTRISM”, [[http://www.environmentalphilosophy.org/ISEEIAEPpapers/2009/Manson.pdf]], Hemanth)

I. THE PLANETARY PERSPECTIVE <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">To be anthropocentric is to regard human beings as of </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>
no less good than our current ecosystem with its present complement of species.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">organic life is teleological and posits the alleviation of suffering and continuation of life as good—it’s biology.</span>
**Schwartz and Wiggins 2010** –Michael A, Department of Psychiatry, University of Hawaii and Obsborne P, Department of Philosophy, University of Louisville, “Psychosomatic medicine and the philosophy of life” Philosophy, Ethics, and Humanities in Medicine 2010, 5:2
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As we have said, the metabolic activity of the organism is geared toward sustaining </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and develop</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the medical </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">techniques to respond to it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [11,13]. </span>

**There’s an important distinction between sentient and non-sentient beings**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz and Wiggins 10</span>–Michael A, Department of Psychiatry, University of Hawaii and Obsborne P, Department of Philosophy, University of Louisville, “Psychosomatic medicine and the philosophy of life” Philosophy, Ethics, and Humanities in Medicine 2010, 5:2

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As we have said, the metabolic activity of the organism is geared toward sustaining </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and develop</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the medical </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">techniques to respond to it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [11,13].</span>
==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Util </span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>=== 



**1. Moral tunnel vision**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Issac, ‘2 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not true believers. It promotes arrogance. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And it undermines political effectiveness. </span>



**2. Life has intrinsic and objective value achieved through subjective pleasures---its preservation should be an a priori goal**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kacou 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amien WHY EVEN MIND? On The A Priori Value Of “Life”, Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy, Vol 4, No 1-2 (2008) cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/92/184 )</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Furthermore, </span><span class="underline">that manner of finding things good that is in pleasure can certainly not </span>

<span class="underline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and desire. Perhaps, our inquiry should be a bit more complex. </span>



**3. Maximizing life allows people to decide their own values – their alternative is totalitarianism**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Szacki, 1996</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jerzy, Professor of Sociology at Warsaw University, Liberalism After Communism, p. 197) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Liberalism does not say which of these different moralities is better than others. It </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">does not treat them as equals if it prefers one conception to another’. </span>


**Predictions Good—**
**1. Predictions are necessary to prevent extinction**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayward, 2006</span>(Peter C., Ph.D. from Swinburne University of Technology, From Individual to Social Foresight, The Case for Foresight, November 8, http://adt.lib.swin.edu.au/uploads/approved/adt-VSWT20061108.153623/public/02whole.pdf)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second response is commonly referred to as `TINA', (There Is No </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">thereby, in some small way, to the trajectory towards preferable futures.</span>


**2. Act in face of uncertainty or forever study things that can never get fully flushed-out.**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cochran ‘99</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Molly Cochran Assistant Professor of International Affairs @ Georgia Institute for Technology, Normative Theory in International Relations. 1999, Page 272</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To conclude this chapter, while modernist and postmodernist debates continue, while we are </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pragmatic critique can be a useful ally to feminist and normative theorists generally.</span>






=ITS Negative= 
==T-Communication== 
===1NC=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">communication infrastructure, not transportation</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IEDC 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (International Economic Development Council, “Economic Development Reference Guide”, http://www.iedconline.org/?p=Guide_Infrastructure)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Infrastructure </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Infrastructure encompasses existing </span>//transportation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//communication//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//utility//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> networks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rebuilding the physical infrastructure </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Satellite communications and microwave antenna </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mobile phone networks Local area networks (LAN)</span>

**Only targeting “hard”, physical objects is topical --- the Aff’s indirect approach unlimits**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cantarelli 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Chantal C., Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management – Delft University of Technology, et al., “Cost Overruns in Large-scale Transportation Infrastructure Projects: Explanations and Their Theoretical Embeddedness”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, 10(1), March, p. 7)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We define transportation infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> projects </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as follows:</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ‘Transport infrastructures </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">include roads, rail </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">defined in this paper by a minimum cost level of 500 million euros.</span>

Voting issue --- The expand the topic by including different catagories of infrastructure – explodes the lit base and makes negative research impossible destroying clash and decision making skills

==States== 
===1NC=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The state governments and relevant territorial actors should fund Intelligent Transportation Systems including funding for demonstration projects, deployment, and ongoing operations and maintenance of already deployed Intelligent Transportation Systems. </span>The state governments should ensure that funding is sustained until project completion**

==**Computer Science Advantage**== 
===**1NC**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extremely low probabilities should count as zero—even if there’s some risk, policy decisions can’t be justified by vanishingly small probabilities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RESCHER</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Nicholas, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, Sensible Decisions: Issues of Rational Decision in Personal Choice and Public Policy, p. 49-50)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">On this issue </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">there is a systemic disagreement between probabilists working on theory-oriented </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">—it is no longer seen as something that presents a realistic prospect</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Privilege short-timeframe impacts:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A) Intervening actors—the longer the timeframe the more likely other agents are to solve their impact</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B) Impact access—short timeframe impacts can turn long timeframe ones, but not the other way around—by the time the later event has occurred our shorter timeframe impact will already be irreversible</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">C)Probability—Long timeframes decrease it—the more distant the prediction, the more likely it is to be wrong </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">POSNER</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Catastrophe: Risk and Response</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 17)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A compelling reason for not giving a great deal of thought to the remote future </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the disasters that are possible, maybe even likely, on that timescale</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">D) Conditional probability—short-timeframe existential risks effectively decrease the probability of long-timeframe ones—we can only die once</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BOSTROM</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, when considering existential-risk probabilities, we must recognize that </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">one existential </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">be no greater than 20%, since we can only be eradicated once</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The precautionary principle is an invocation of __absurdity__ – kills the biotech industry (Yellow)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">van den Belt 3</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Henk, Assistant Professor of Applied Philosophy at the University of Wageningen “Debating the Precautionary Principle: "Guilty until Proven Innocent" or "Innocent until Proven Guilty"?” Plant Physiology 132:1122-1126 (2003) http://www.plantphysiol.org/content/132/3/1122) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PP is an outgrowth of increased environmentalist awareness</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> since the 1970s. The conviction </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the "prognosis of doom" than to the "prognosis of bliss."</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Policy Making DA – results in inability to make decisions - if we only consider existential risk - we can't know what to do - if every policy decision has 10^18 billion people its hard to do things - and if anything can do something about that- it's hard to deal with that</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MESKILL 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tom </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Friedman's piece</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> today in the Times on the environment (http://www.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">looming apocalypse, with the time (just barely) to take action</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Alt cause - lack of educated personnel**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Benioff et al 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Marc R. Benioff and Edward D. Lazowska,PITAC Co-Chairs, President’s InformationTechnology Advisory Committee, http://www.nitrd.gov/pitac/reports/20050609_computational/computational.pdf) chip</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our preoccupation with peak performance and computing hardware</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, vital though they </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">one domain to another, resulting in duplication of effort and little interoperability.</span>

**Computational transportation systems fail- data overload**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winter et al 10 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan Winter: The University of Melbourne, Australia, Monika Sester: Leibniz University Hannover, Germany, Ouri Wolfson: University of Illinois, Chicago, USA, Glenn Geers: National ICT Australia, Sydney, Australia, ACM SIGMOD Record, Volume 39 Issue 3, September 2010 , Pages 27-32, [[http://www.cs.uic.edu/~boxu/mp2p/39-135-1-SM.pdf]]) chip</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In large cities and on congested roads the data density will be vast</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">). Questions of relevance, urgency, and safety need to be addressed.</span>

**The Amazon is the least endangered forest in the world – Their evidence is all media hype.**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morana and Washburn 2k</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 6-26-2000Worldnet Daily, http://www.worldnetdaily.com/index.php?fa=PAGE.printable&pageId=4162</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Amazon is actually the least endangered forest in the world</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">," states Moore </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">endangered forests" because "they are the least suitable for human habitation</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">." </span>

**Nanotech doesn’t risk extinction – It can’t spread through the air**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dyson, 03</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Freeman J. Dyson 03, Professor of Physics Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, 2-13-2003 New York Review of Books 50:3 http://www.nybooks.com/articles/16053</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is easy to demonstrate that the details of the story are technically flawed. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">swarm of insects, they would have to be as large as insects.</span>


**Pesticides doesn’t hurt species**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Denis </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Avery</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Director of the Center for Global Food Issues, Hudson Briefing Paper Number 10, Shaping the Future, May, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16pt;">1996</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">www.hudson.org</span>

__Agrochemicals are not a documented threat to the survival of a single species.'__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__are documented, specific chemicals__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> or uses should be (and </span>__are) eliminated__

==__Bioterror__== 
===__1NC__=== 
**. Bioterror risk exaggerated – It’s a conspiracy to justify funding for counter-measures.**
**Leitenberg 05**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Milton, Senior research scholar at the U of Maryland and author of "Assessing the Biological Weapons and Bioterrorism Threat." LA Times – 2/17 lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A pandemic flu outbreak of the kind the world witnessed in 1918-19 could </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__country has ever done so__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> -- even nations known to have trained terrorists.</span>

**2. Technical barriers make bio-terror impossible – We cite 6 obstacles.**
**National Journal 05**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(April 23rd – lexis) (Note: Danzig is a former Navy secretary who is now a Pentagon bioterrorism consultant and the Sam Nunn Prize fellow in international security at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Technical Challenges: On the other hand, critics argue that</span>__some experts have oversimplified__
__AND__
__state groups that I have read about -- being technically proficient in that__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." </span>

**3. Terrorists won’t use Bioweapons – It hurts their agenda to pursue death tolls that are that large.**
**Stern 99**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Jessica, Council on Foreign Relations “The Prospect of Domestic Bioterrorism,” http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol5no4/stern.htm CDC Emerging Infectious Diseases--Vol 5 # 4 July)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Would domestic terrorists use biological weapons?1 The conventional wisdom among experts has been </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">on biological agents. Additionally, some terrorists may perceive moral constraints.3</span>

**4. Even if they win that it will be used, Bioweapons can’t spread.**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Gregg</span>**Easterbrook 03**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, senior fellow at The New Republic, July 2003, Wired, “We’re All Gonna Die!” http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.07/doomsday.html?pg=2&topic=&topic_set=</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">3. Germ warfare!Like chemical agents, </span>__biological weapons have never lived up__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">out humanity before, and it seems unlikely to happen in the future.</span>


**. Nuclear war leads to extinction - ozone**

**Gache, ‘08** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Science News Editor 8 [Gabriel, "Regional Nuclear War Would Destroy the World," 4-8, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Regional-Nuclear-War-Would-Destroy-the-World-82760.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>



<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global or not, a nuclear war would kill us all.</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">And</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">if nuclear </span>__</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">in order</span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">to avoid the destruction of the nuclear weapons before being launched</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>





=Diego Garcia Negative= 
==Coco Island CP== 
===1NC=== 

**Text – The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Cocos Islands. The United States federal government should end its presence on Diego Garcia in accordance with the 2016 deadline and transfer its presence to the Cocos Islands.**

**Cocos Island would replace the Diego Garcia base – most ideal for regional surveillance operations**
**Coorey 2012** (Phillip, reporter for the National Times, Sydney Morning Herald, 3/28/12, “US military eyes Cocos Islands as a future Indian Ocean spy base”, http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/political-news/us-military-eyes-cocos-islands-as-a-future-indian-ocean-spy-base-20120327-1vwo0.html)

United States military aircraft, including drones undertaking surveillance operations over the South China Sea AND but for Global Hawks, an unarmed, high-altitude surveillance drone''.

**The Diego Garcia base is the cause of all the suffering of the Chagossians – closure is key to return sovereignty**
**Ah-Vee 2012** (Alain, reporter for AllAfrica, a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public, 7 – 18 – 12, “Mauritius: Diego Garcia - The Base, Sovereignty & Right of Return”, http://allafrica.com/stories/201206190906.html)

The US military base on Diego Garcia has been used, and is still used AND to "when []Chagos] is no longer needed for defense purposes".

**Exile from Diego Garcia as a result of the US military base has produced the worst forms of suffering - misery, poverty, suicide, racism, and fear for the future are a direct result**
**Standley 2000** (Jane, Africa correspondent for BBC international news, 11/3/00, “Chagos islanders: 30 years of suffering”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/1005130.stm)

The High Court ruling allowing the Chagos islanders to return home in effect ends their AND them. And the future - I worry about the problems to come."

**Err neg—all things being equal, the counterplan is more likely to decrease racial discrimination—this is a moral imperative—conflict and destruction are inevitable in a world where racism is tolerated.**
**Memmi 99** — Albert Memmi, Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris, 1999 (Racism, Published by the University of Minnesota Press, ISBN 0816631654, p. 163-165)

The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission AND . True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

===2NC CP Solvency=== 

**Cocos Island development enables the US military to monitor China, the South China Sea, and the Indian Ocean**
**Mohan 2011** (Raja, reporter for the Indian Express, news journal, “Cocos Islands and Sino-US Rivalry in the Indian Ocean”, http://m.indianexpress.com/news/cocos-islands-and-sinous-rivalry-in-the-indian-ocean/931548/)

Reports from the United States say Washington wants to develop the Australian owned Cocos Islands AND preserve its historic primacy in the waters of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.

**A regional drone outpost is key to monitor emerging threats – its critical to US military strategy**
**Ward 2012** (Alex, reporter for the Foreign Plicy Association, 4/16/12, “Drones on the Cocos Islands: A Cat Amongst the Pigeons”, http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2012/04/16/drones-cocos-islands-cat-pigeons/)

The fact that drone-warfare has fast become the cornerstone of contemporary US military AND to remain an integral feature of Washington’s regional strategy for the foreseeable future.

**Diego Garcia is insufficient – no room to expand infrastructure – Cocos Islands are comparatively better for hosting military operations**
**O’Connor 2012** (Patrick, 29 March 2012, Published by the International Committee of the Fourth International, cites Washington Post, “US and Australia prepare military build up in Indian Ocean”, http://www.wsws.org/articles/2012/mar2012/coco-m29.shtml)

The Cocos Islands, populated by just 600 people, is an isolated territory of AND be well-positioned to launch spy flights over the South China Sea.”


=HTF Negative= 
==Innovation Advantage== 
===1NC=== 
**The government uses taxation to coerce invididuals – historically transportation infrastructure solidifies its control**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rothbard 2002</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Murray N -dean of the Austrian School of economics “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)/EM|http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The State indeed performs </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">many </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">important</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and necessary </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">functions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: from provision of law to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">he will be arrested or shot</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if he should continue to resist.</span>
**Its evil man…. Every instance of coercion brings us closer to tyranny and must be rejected**
Browne 95<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Harry, former Libertarian presidential candidate, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, //Why Government Doesn’t Work//, pg 66-67 *edited for gendered language)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The reformers of the Cambodian revolution claimed to be building a better world</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. They </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">cover up the damage of all the failed government programs that came before.</span>


**The logic of deterrence embodies the progress from total war to total peace – insecurity is constant and culminates in unending violence and destruction**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">James 07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (2007, Ian, PhD, twentieth-century and contemporary French literature and philosophy, University of Cambridge, “Paul Virilio: War” p. 67-89)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps </span>**__one of the most startling conclusions that Virilio draws__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> from his analysis in Bunker </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
**__fold into each other to form an entirely new military and political form.__**


**2. US economy resilient – only domestic issues affect it**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Seeking Alpha 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – quoting Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto (Tim Duy, 4/1/11, Something to Chew on: The U.S.'s Economic Resilience, http://seekingalpha.com/article/261277-something-to-chew-on-the-u-s-s-economic-resilience)</span>

__With the economy on “a firmer footing,”__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> she said, </span>__U.S__
__AND__
__primary risks are internal demand and energy shocks, not other external shocks.__

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">3. </span>**Ninety-three economic downturns disprove the link**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 2k</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Morris, Adjunct Professor of Administration at the University of Ottawa, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol 24 No 4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Do wars spring from</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> a popular reaction to a </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>
**4. The economy is resilient – It overcame worse downturn events, and it’s empirically proven.**
**Behravesh 06**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> -Chief Economist @ Newsweek- ["The Great Shock Absorber"]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jan. 16, 2006 issue -</span>__The U.S. and global economies__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">London bombings</span>__would__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> probably </span>__have an even smaller impact on overall GDP growth__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**5. Economic decline doesn’t cause war – Their chain of causation is backwards.**
**Ferguson 06**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Niall, prof. of history, Foreign Affairs, “The Next War of the World”, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed. What may be the most familiar causal </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__economic catastrophe, and some severe economic crises were not followed by wars__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**1. Disease are short term – They evolve to be benign.**
**AMNH 98**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The American Museum of Natural History “How did Hyperdisease cause extinctions?” http://www.amnh.org/science/biodiversity/extinction/Day1/disease/Bit2.html</span>

__It is well known that lethal diseases can have a profound effect on species' population__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">be maintained within the host population, thus ensuring the pathogen's ultimate survival.</span>

**2. No terminal impact – Too fast or too slow.**
**The Independent 03**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> “Future Tense: Is Mankind Doomed?” http://www.commondreams.org/headlines03/0725-04.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Maybe - though plenty of experienced graduate students could already have a stab. But</span>
__AND__
__. As scares go, this one is ideal - overblown and unrealistic__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**1. History proves that technical difficulties and ideology prevent effective bioterror**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">John </span>**Parachini 03**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, policy analyst at RAND, Autumn, 2003, The Washington Quarterly, p. lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The third explanation for the paucity of terrorist attacks using unconventional weapons is the technical </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">on Israeli territory and to eliminate Israel as a state is decidedly political.</span>

**2. No bioweapons – Too difficult to acquire and deploy**
**Burton and Stewart, 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Fred and Scott, Stratfor Intelligence, “Busting the Anthrax Myth”, July 30, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/busting_anthrax_myth) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">We must admit to being among those who do not perceive the threat of bioterrorism </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> undertaken by the Bhagwan Shri Rajneesh cult are far easier to commit.</span>

==Oil Advantage== 
===1NC (Round Robin)=== 

**Decrease in dependency causes market flooding – kills prices and turns case**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IB Times 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (The International Business Times is an online global business newspaper, comprising of 17 editions, published in 10 languages across 13 countries. It is among the top ten online business newspapers in the world. The publication, sometimes called IBTimes, offers news, analysis and opinion on geo-politics, global economy, markets, large and small cap companies, science and technology, and business life and culture. May 30, 2011 “Why lower Saudi oil prices kill alternative energy” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/154524/20110530/saudi-arabia-oil.htm )</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The biggest obstacle to alternative energy is money</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Saudi Prince</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Al-Waleed bin </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">the resolve to eat the enormous upfront costs of developing alternative energy sources</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The world has enormous spare oil**
**Gholz and Press**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">8/20/</span><span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">08</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Associate Professor @ Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs @ UT Austin, Associate Professor of Government @ Dartmouth, Eugene & Daryl G., New York Times, “All the Oil We Need” http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/21/opinion/21press.html?pagewanted=2&_r=1&_r%202</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While </span>__oil__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> prices have declined somewhat of late, the </span>__volatility__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of the market and </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__global reserves to weather disruptions will go a long way to minimizing panic__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**2. No risk of Chinese political or economic disintegration – Many reasons.**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">William T. </span>**Pendley 01**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, China scholar, review of “Is China Unstable,” The Journal of Asian Studies, Vol. 60, No. 1. Feb., 2001</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">One of the major strengths of this book is its balance. It does not </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Chinese </span>__leadership__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, though untested, </span>__has available both incentives and repressive measures__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Chinese economy resilient – urbanization, investment, and stimulus prove**
**Reuters 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Kevin Yao, June 23, “Analysis: China economy resilient, for now”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/23/us-china-economy-growth-idUSTRE75M1AO20110623) RA</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">BEIJING (Reuters) – China's growth is slowing under the weight of Beijing's anti</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">," said Kevin Lai, economist at Daiwa Global Markets in Hong Kong. </span>


**China’s military is dependent on its economy – If the economy collapses they wouldn’t be able to fund a war.**
**New York Post**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">6/1/</span>**99**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/chinaspy.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">How are we to make China pay for its wanton act of aggression? The </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__as a military institution. Weaken Beijing's economy and you weaken its military.__


**Chinese collapse would increase their dependence on surrounding nations preventing any military conflict.**
**South China Morning Post**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">11/2/</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Apparently </span>__oil-rich islands in the South China Sea have for decades been a__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">mainland assisted by providing financial support and maintaining the value of the yuan.</span>

**War with China won’t happen – They don’t have enough power and it’s not in their interest.**
**Brzezinski 05**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Natl Sec. Adv. in Carter Administration, Prof. of Foreign Policy at J. Hopkins U [Zbigniew “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” (p118-120)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Most importantly,</span>__the Chinese know better than anyone that they lack__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – and will </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and prod others – including the dynamic South Korea – to become engaged. </span>

**Don’t trust their Abelkop evidence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abelkop, His Younger Brother, 2012</span> (Garrett, Hooch Debate Director)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adam has a personal incentive to write what he does to make it seem like hes cool. He also wet the bed until he was 15</span>

**Interdependence and Chinese domestic energy supplies prevent energy competition.**
**Speed, Liao and Dannreuther,** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Philip Andrews-Speed and Xuanli Lio, director, research, and teaching fellow of the Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy @ U of Dundee, and Roland Dannreuther, senior lecturer in the Politics Department of U of Edinburgh. “China Environment Series,” ciaonet.org, January 2004]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A liberal “engagement” view would focus on the possibility that</span>__China’s energy needs__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nations of Northeast Asia develop their own regional institution for energy security management. </span>

**Alternate energy supplies and conservation avert energy conflict.**
<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**</span>**Zweig and**<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Bi </span>**</span>**Jianhai 05**<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">,</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Foreign Affairs, September - October 2005 [China's Global Hunt for Energy]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">By no means are such conflicts a certainty, however.</span>__In assessing the dangers__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">compared with 40 percent for the United States and 80 percent for Japan.</span>

**China exploits otherwise untapped markets. Energy market is not zero-sum.**
<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**</span>**Zweig and**<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Bi </span>**</span>**Jianhai 05**<span class="Heading3Char1">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Foreign Affairs, September 2005 - October 2005 [China's Global Hunt for Energy]</span>

<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">China's hunt for resources may have less dire consequences for</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> developed nations such as the </span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">thus in many places </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">the two countries are not really in direct competition</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>



**Sino-Russian relations are at an all time high –** **Mutual interests check relations decline**
**Xinhua**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">10-30-</span>0**8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://english.cri.cn/2946/2008/10/30/1461s419284.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on Wednesday praised the cooperation between China and Russia and vowed </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and attended the third Sino-Russian economic and trade forum in Moscow.</span>

**2. Relations are resilient – Border disputes have all been settled, and they’re cracking down on Chinese immigration.**
**Weitz 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[8/1, World Politics Review, Richard. Senior Fellow and Director of Program Management at Hudson Institute.] http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/Article.aspx?id=2517]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">On July 21,</span>__Russia__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">n Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov </span>__and Chinese__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__labor migration, including by establishing "insurmountable barriers" for illegal migrants.__

**3. China will never attack Russia – It would be diplomatic and military suicide.**
**Menon 03**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Rajan, Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations at Lehigh University, The National Interest, Fall)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">By contrast, China's military, which was quite recently a giant horde of foot </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">geography, demography, power and time may create in Russia's Far East.</span>

===1NC (Quarters)=== 

**1. The status quo, free market solves the internal link:**
**(a) high oil prices will cause reduced consumption and increase investment in renewables ON THEIR OWN – intervention in the energy market crushes the economy**
**Williams ‘3** (Bob Williams, executive editor, 8-18-2003, Oil & Gas Journal, p. 18, l/n)

If the depletionists are right about global oil production peaking around the turn of the AND , upon which the former depend heavily for export markets and economic aid.

**(b) Chinese oil demand is down**
**Saefong ’12** (Myra, “China oil demand decline first in 3 years: Platts” MarketWatch, July 23, http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-07-23/markets/32795816_1_oil-demand-platts-chinese-government-data)

China's apparent oil demand fell for the first time in three years in June, AND .2%, to $88.88 a barrel in New York.

**2. Alternate causes preclude solvency:**
**(a) Their Pho evidence only says is that China is susceptible to “supply interruptions.” – Their evidence:**
**Pho and Spelman 4/24** – Sandy Pho - Program Assistant at the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States - B.S. in Justice and Social Inquiry from Arizona State University with an emphasis on international studies AND Douglas Spelman - Senior Adviser at the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States (4/24/12, Wilson Center, “Increasing Oil Demand in China: Rising Risks and International Consequences,” http://www.wilsoncenter.org/event/increasing-oil-demand-china-rising-risks-and-international-consequences)

What are the risks of China’s increasing oil demand? Although coal (for now AND possible supply interruptions as well as the transportation of those supplies to China.

**(b) the plan does NOTHING to reduce Chinese oil dependence - supply shocks can come from anywhere. These alternate causalities mean they can’t solve their advantage – from Abelkop, their solvency author, in 2009.**
(From my [Adam Abelkop] JCL 2009 Note)

The international petroleum market, however, is not free from outside interference. AND they did contribute to the sharp rise in oil prices in 2008. n157

**Their China impact scenario is false – multiple warrants**
William T. **Pendley 01**, China scholar, review of “Is China Unstable,” The Journal of Asian Studies, Vol. 60, No. 1. Feb., 2001

One of the major strengths of this book is its balance. It does not AND Chinese leadership, though untested, has available both incentives and repressive measures.

**The Chinese economy is dynamic and resilient – urbanization, investment, and stimulus prove**
**Reuters 11** (Kevin Yao, June 23, “Analysis: China economy resilient, for now”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/23/us-china-economy-growth-idUSTRE75M1AO20110623) RA

BEIJING (Reuters) – China's growth is slowing under the weight of Beijing's anti AND ," said Kevin Lai, economist at Daiwa Global Markets in Hong Kong.

**No impact to war**
**Brzezinski 05** Natl Sec. Adv. in Carter Administration, Prof. of Foreign Policy at J. Hopkins U [Zbigniew “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” (p118-120)]

Most importantly,the Chinese know better than anyone that they lack – and will AND and prod others – including the dynamic South Korea – to become engaged.

**Interdependence and Chinese domestic energy supplies prevent energy competition**
**Speed, Liao and Dannreuther, 2004** [Philip Andrews-Speed and Xuanli Lio, director, research, and teaching fellow of the Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy @ U of Dundee, and Roland Dannreuther, senior lecturer in the Politics Department of U of Edinburgh. “China Environment Series,” ciaonet.org, January 2004]

A liberal “engagement” view would focus on the possibility that China’s energy needs AND nations of Northeast Asia develop their own regional institution for energy security management.

**Sino-Russian relations are at an all-time high – Mutual interests check relations decline**
**Xinhua10-30-08** http://english.cri.cn/2946/2008/10/30/1461s419284.htm

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on Wednesday praised the cooperation between China and Russia and vowed AND and attended the third Sino-Russian economic and trade forum in Moscow.

**Relations are resilient – Border disputes have all been settled, and they’re cracking down on Chinese immigration.**
**Weitz 08** [8/1, World Politics Review, Richard. Senior Fellow and Director of Program Management at Hudson Institute.] http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/Article.aspx?id=2517]

On July 21,Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi AND labor migration, including by establishing "insurmountable barriers" for illegal migrants.

**China will never attack Russia – It would be diplomatic and military suicide.**
**Menon 03** (Rajan, Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations at Lehigh University, The National Interest, Fall)

By contrast, China's military, which was quite recently a giant horde of foot AND geography, demography, power and time may create in Russia's Far East.

**No war—border dispute will be settled diplomatically**
**Chang ‘8** (Yihong, Canadian expert on defense and security in East Asia, interview of Chang by Alexander Lomanov, “Russia and China Focus their Attention in the Same Direction,” Defense and Security, 8-27, lexis)

Question: And what if China's empire-nostalgia leads it to look at the AND , realizing that the only solution is to recognize the existing situation.

**The logic of deterrence embodies the progress from total war to total peace – insecurity is constant and culminates in unending violence and destruction**
**James 07** – (2007, Ian, PhD, twentieth-century and contemporary French literature and philosophy, University of Cambridge, “Paul Virilio: War” p. 67-89)

Perhaps one of the most startling conclusions that Virilio draws from his analysis in Bunker AND fold into each other to form an entirely new military and political form.

===2NC=== 

**Gas taxes kill oil companies – they’re key to the economy**
**World News, 12** (Delivers coverage of the industry sectors includes news and updates on plants, markets, terminals, pipelines, projects, vessels, equipment, research, companies, contractors and the authorities dominating these markets; April 25th; “USA: Higher Oil, Gas Taxes Would Hurt Jobs and Revenue, API Says”; http://www.lngworldnews.com/usa-higher-oil-gas-taxes-would-hurt-jobs-and-revenue-api-says/)

API’s Chief Economist John Felmy told reporters yesterday that when America’s oil and natural gas AND a few years, decrease the revenue our industry delivers to the government.

**Gas taxes overburden the middle class**
**Ferguson, 07** (Jacob, Senior thesis as an economics major at UNI; “Should the United States Increase the Federal Gasoline Tax?”; http://business.uni.edu/economics/Themes/ferguson.pdf)

The gasoline tax’s tendency to place a greater burden on low-income households is AND tax falls on low- and middle-income households as a result.

**They’re key to the economy**
**Reich, 12** (Robert, one of the nation’s leading experts on work and the economy, is Chancellor’s Professor of Public Policy at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley. He has served in three national administrations, most recently as secretary of labor under President Bill Clinton. Time Magazine has named him one of the ten most effective cabinet secretaries of the last century. He has written thirteen books, his syndicated columns, television appearances, and public radio commentaries reach millions of people each week. He is also a founding editor of the American Prospect magazine, and Chairman of the citizen’s group Common Cause; “Why the Economy Can’t Get Out of First Gear”; http://www.economonitor.com/blog/2012/06/why-the-economy-cant-get-out-of-first-gear/

Rarely in history has the cause of a major economic problem been so clear yet AND sure the middle class gets far more of the gains from economic growth.

**High oil prices, the switch to natural gas, energy efficiency, new technology for oil drilling, and the discovery of new oil fields and shale mean supply is increasing and consumption is decreasing. The U.S. will literally end oil imports from OPEC.**
**Mullaney ’12** (Tim, U.S. energy independence is no longer just a pipe dream, USA Today, 5-15, http://www.usatoday.com/money/industries/energy/story/2012-05-15/1A-COV-ENERGY-INDEPENDENCE/54977254/1)

Much of Wall Street and Washington is seized by the hope that the AND 42% more energy-efficient by 2035, continuing an enduring trend.

**And, ending oil imports from OPEC means that the US will avoid competing with China, which gets most its oil imports from OPEC, and almost NONE of its oil from North America.**
**EIA 9-4**(Energy Information Administration, U.S. Department of Energy, “China”, Sept. 4, 2012 http://www.eia.gov/countries/cab.cfm?fips=CH)

The Middle East remains the largest source of China's crude oil imports, although African AND from Iran as a result of U.S. and EU sanctions.

**Finally, our argument is the CONSENSUS POSITION: almost all of the factors that are solving for U.S. oil dependence in the status quo will persist in the long term.**
**Nerurkar ’12** (Neelesh, Specialist in Energy Policy for the Congressional Research Service, “U.S. Oil Imports and Exports, Congressional Research Service Report, April 4, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42465.pdf)

A consensus is emerging among energy analysts that U.S. oil imports may AND import volumes flat, import costs may still rise if oil prices increase.

**US Operational capacity and exports increasing now – theres a net increase of 350,000 barrels a day**
**Powell, 2/29/12** (Barbara, Bloomberg Reporter citing Bill Day and a Short-Term Energy Outlook report. “U.S. Was Net Oil-Product Exporter for First Time Since 1949”http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-was-net-oil-product-exporter-in-2011.html)

Distillate shipments rose 30 percent from a year earlier to a record 854,000 AND the department’s Short-Term Energy Outlook report released on Feb. 7.

**The United states is becoming a net exporter of oil in the status squo – solves their energy advantage**
**Zeiler 1/4/12** (David, Associate Editor for Monday Morning, news station “Oil Companies Big Winners as U.S. Becomes Net Exporter of Fuel” http://moneymorning.com/2012/01/04/oil-companies-big-winners-as-u-s-becomes-net-exporter-of-fuel/)

The United States has become a net exporter of fuel for the first time in AND hole sucking in energy from around the world. This changes that dynamic."

**US = Net Exporter**
**Investor Place Staff 3/1** (Citing DOT Report Newstation, “U.S. Becomes Net Oil-Producer Exporter” http://investorplace.com/2012/03/us-becomes-net-oil-product-exporter/)

The Department of Energy recently reported that the United States now stands as a net AND refiners’ notable increase in fuel production in tandem with America’s waning monthly consumption.

**The Status Squo is sufficient to resolve their internal links – increasing domestic production and foreign consumption increases domestic output**
**Investor Place Staff 3/1** (Citing DOT Report Newstation, “U.S. Becomes Net Oil-Producer Exporter” http://investorplace.com/2012/03/us-becomes-net-oil-product-exporter/)

U.S. demand for oil products maintains a steady downward trend year- AND .67 barrels per day in 2011, an eight-year high.

**USFG Decreasing Consumption in Status Squo now**
**Kansis City Star 9/23** (Harold Net News Network “U.S. Moves Closer to Energy Independence” http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20120923/NEWS02/709239926)

Overall U.S. consumption of petroleum has declined by more than 2 million AND 2025 will amount to 2.2 million barrels of oil a day.

==Gas Tax PIC== 
===1NC=== 
**Text – The United States federal government should substantially increase its Highway Trust Fund highway investment by diverting sufficient funding from the Lead-based Paint Hazard Control Grant Program, funds for the digital conversion from analogue, funds for digital decoders, funds available for summer activities for young people, and if necessary National Science Foundation grant programs.**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention One: Sufficient Highway Funding </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lead Paint Grant program is frivolous – no need for it </span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Dodrill, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tara, Political and Environmental Policy Analyst, “Frivolous Grant Spending Adds to America’s Debt”, http://news.yahoo.com/frivolous-grant-spending-adds-americas-debt-221300269.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a utopian society, there would be enough money to provide a home, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the dangers are not hazardous enough to condemn the home or apartment. </span>

**And – Funds for analogue conversion, digital decoders, and summer activities ensure sufficient money**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Top Marketing Plan, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (August 24, [[http://topmarketingplan.info/2011/08/one-estimate-of-wall-street-journal-only-about-12-cents-of-every-dollar-will-actually-go-to/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to an estimate of the Wall Street Journal, only about 12 cents of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">J love it especially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the allocation of $ 650 million for digital decoders.</span>

**And – Lots of NSF grants are not needed**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Dodrill, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tara, Political and Environmental Policy Analyst, “Are Frivolous Grants Derailing the Economic Recovery?”, http://news.yahoo.com/frivolous-grants-derailing-economic-recovery-202000101.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Frivolous spending of taxpayer funds</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and out-of-control entitlement spending was at </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such communication eventually prompted more face-to-face interactions with peers. </span>


__Contention Two__: The First Net Benefit
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The government uses taxation to coerce invididuals – historically transportation infrastructure solidifies its control</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rothbard 2002</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Murray N -dean of the Austrian School of economics “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)/EM|http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The State indeed performs </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">many </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">important</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and necessary </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">functions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: from provision of law to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">he will be arrested or shot</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if he should continue to resist.</span>

Freedom comes before all other impacts
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Petro</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> 1974</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Sylvester - professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring, Toledo Law Review, p480)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">However, one may still insist on echoing Ernest Hemingway – “</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">I believe in </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>

__Contention Three__: The Second Net Benefit
The counterplan __DOES NOT__ use energy competition with China as a __JUSTIFICATION__ for action – the plan does. China threatcon causes war
**Pan, 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Political Science, Australian National U,Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued above that </span>__the "China threat" argument in mainstream U.__
__AND__
__, and less dangerous ways of interpreting and debating China might become possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===2NC Pan=== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The creatin of enemies is purely psychological – that creates a self fulfilling prophecy </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Stein 03 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Howard, Fall. Professor Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of Oklahoma, psychoanalytic anthropologist and psychohistorian. “Days of Awe: September 11, 2001 and its Cultural Psychodynamics,” Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.2, Project Muse.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">We not only need enemies</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Volkan, "Need," "Blood Lines"),</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The psychoanalytic work of comprehending September 11, 2001 is scarcely begun. </span>

**Specifc to energy coop --****Inhibits global energy cooperation – dooming the aff’s attempts at resolving environmental crises**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Chandler</span>, <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Carnegie Endowment Senior Associate</span>, March 200<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">8</span>
[William, "Breaking the Suicide Pact: US-China Cooperation on Climate Change," [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb57_chandler_final.pdf]] Chinikamwala]

<span class="UnderlinestyleChar2">**Together, China and the United States produce 40 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions**</span>
<span class="UnderlinestyleChar2">**AND**</span>
//international agreement//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—and eventually even a post-Kyoto global climate accord.</span>


**First, China threat discourse reduces the world to calculative strategy. Behaviors, histories, and possibilities that don’t fit into the affirmative’s worldview of stability and certainty are labeled threatening.**
Chengxin **__PAN__** IR @ Australian Nat’l <span class="underline">‘4 “The China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics” //Alternatives// 29 p. </span> 314-315
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In this sense, </span>__the discursive construction of China as a threatening other cannot be__
__AND__
__mission__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Islam is rather vague, and Iran lacks necessary weights)."56 </span>


==Petroleum Tax CP== 
===1NC=== 

**Text – The United States federal government should substantially increase its Highway Trust Fund highway investment by increasing the federal excise tax rate and phasing in a price floor and variable tax on petroleum.**

**The counterplan places a surcharge on CRUDE OIL, NOT GASOLINE - - it solves 100% of the Aff but avoids elections**
**Merill & Schizer, 2010** (Thomas, JD from Oxford, Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, Legal Scholar at Yale, David, JD in Law from Yale, Dean and the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia, Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law and Economics, “Energy Policy for an Economic Downturn: A Proposed Petroleum Fuel Price Stabilization Plan”, Yale Journal on Regulation, 27 Yale J. on Reg. 1, Lexis)

A compelling case can be made for reducing America's consumption of petroleum fuels. Nearly AND but only depriving them of contingent benefits associated with future oil price declines.

**And – End-user taxes on FUEL are politically disastrous; the counterplans CRUDE surcharge solves all of the benefits of the gas tax without the negative political perception**
**Merill & Schizer, 2010** (Thomas, JD from Oxford, Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, Legal Scholar at Yale, David, JD in Law from Yale, Dean and the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia, Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law and Economics, “Energy Policy for an Economic Downturn: A Proposed Petroleum Fuel Price Stabilization Plan”, Yale Journal on Regulation, 27 Yale J. on Reg. 1, Lexis)

Introduction Among serious policy analysts, there is nearly uniform support for the proposition that AND has other important incentive effects and political advantages relative to a Pigouvian tax.

===2NC=== 

**Our counterplan literally power-bombs their Affirmative**
**Merill & Schizer, 2010** (Thomas, JD from Oxford, Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, Legal Scholar at Yale, David, JD in Law from Yale, Dean and the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia, Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law and Economics, “Energy Policy for an Economic Downturn: A Proposed Petroleum Fuel Price Stabilization Plan”, Yale Journal on Regulation, 27 Yale J. on Reg. 1, Lexis)

B. Political Advantages of a Price Floor over a Pigouvian Tax While a classic AND production of a broad mix of vehicle types to meet different consumer needs.

**CP solves warming, oil dependence, and any benefit of the Aff comparatively better**
**Merill & Schizer, 2010** (Thomas, JD from Oxford, Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, Legal Scholar at Yale, David, JD in Law from Yale, Dean and the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia, Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law and Economics, “Energy Policy for an Economic Downturn: A Proposed Petroleum Fuel Price Stabilization Plan”, Yale Journal on Regulation, 27 Yale J. on Reg. 1, Lexis)

Consider in this regard two of the major social costs that any increase in petroleum AND measure of externalities associated with sprawl and congestion is unquestionably much higher.

=Icebreakers Negative= 
==Navy Power== 
===1NC=== 
Squo Solves Naval Supremacy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farley 07 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Assistant Professor, started at the Patterson School in 2005 as a post-doc scholar. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Washington Department of Political Science in 2004, 10/23/07“The False Decline of the U.S. Navy”, [[http://prospect.org/article/false-decline-us-navy]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States Navy currently operates eleven aircraft carriers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The oldest and least capable </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
//with a significant ship-to-ship advantage over any foreign navy.//

Their impacts are exaggerated – Russia is pursuing cooperation, not conflict.
**Interfax News Agency**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, 10/22/20</span>**08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “Russia rules out conflict over Arctic shelf, applies to extend its Arctic border,” Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The </span>__Russian Foreign Ministry believes__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> that </span>__talk about the possibility of a military conflict over__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the permission of the relevant state, over this territory," Vasilyev noted.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Threatcon is a self-perpetuating cycle</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jaeger, ‘00</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Øyvind Jæger, @ Norweigian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

**__The Russian war on Chechnya is one event that was widely interpreted__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the Baltic </span>
**__AND__**
**__the privileged identity as the subversive errand boys of the prime external enemy.__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Trade wars don’t cause shooting wars.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">David H. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bearce 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Grasping the Commercial Institutional Peace, University of Pittsburgh - International Studies Quarterly (2003) 47, 347–370</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Even as we accept that such trade dispute settlement mechanisms help resolve economic conflict, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">institutions simply have no jurisdiction or power to resolve highly contentious territorial disagreements.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Free trade low and collapse inevitable – China proves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alibaba News</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">10/23/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> [China Worries Downturn May Spur Protectionism, [[http://news.alibaba.com/article/detail/asia/100015827-1-wsja%252810%252F23%2529-china-worries-downturn-may.html]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">BEIJING -- With the world's major economies headed toward recession,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China is starting to </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">to explain its eagerness to complete the current round of global trade negotiations.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No trade shut down</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahearn 9</span>__** [Raymond, CRS Specialist in International Trade and Finance, “The Global Economic Downturn and Protectionism,” March 23, 2009, http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/19395.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of reasons why </span>__the threat of a return to protectionist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(both investigations initiated and imposition of duties) surged in 2008.”13</span>


**No impact to naval power – it’s obsolete**
**Goure 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Vice President, Lexington Institute, PhD (Daniel, 2 July 2010, Can The Case Be Made For Naval Power?,[[@http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/can-the-case-be-made-for-naval-power-?a=1&c=1171]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is no longer the case. </span>__The U.S. faces no__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> great </span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">commerce of other states in jeopardy, seem relatively unimportant in today’s world.</span>

**Navies are obsolete – cruise missiles and submarines will take out the fleet**
**Burleson 07 –**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mike, columnist with Sea Classics magazine. “An All-Submarine Navy” 6-19-07. http://www.opinioneditorials.com/guestcontributors/mburleson_20070619.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Last week, the third in a new class of underwater battleships, the USS </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the destroyer, shepherding its convoy through the “shark” ridden waters.</span>
==Antarctic Treaty== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Non-Unique – The US has been using foreign ships in the past few years</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**O’Rouke 2012** (Ronald O'Rourke Specialist in Naval Affairs, writing for the Congressional Research Service “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress”, June 14, 2012, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although Coast Guard polar icebreakers in the past have performed the annual McMurdo break- AND to about 300 days a year for foreign contractor-operated polar icebreakers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate research now—solves science diplomacy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stars and Stripes 2012** (Seth Robson, “US uses Russian icebreaker to get fuel supplies to Antarctica”, 2/12/12, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/japan/us-uses-russian-icebreaker-to-get-fuel-supplies-to-antarctica-1.168398]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MCMURDO STATION, Antarctica — Climate change research that the U.S. military AND the natural system will respond in coming centuries to human caused global warming.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Science diplomacy fails – political motivates corrupt its effectiveness.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dickson 09** (David, SciDev, “The limits of science diplomacy,” 6/4/2009, http://www.scidev.net/en/editorials/the-limits-of-science-diplomacy.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But — as emerged from a meeting entitled New Frontiers in Science Diplomacy, held AND substitute politics (or perhaps more worryingly, vice versa), is dangerous.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Russia Antarctic cooperation now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Interfax, 9/9** - Russian non-governmental news agency based in Moscow, ‘Russia, U.S. sign memorandum on cooperation in Antarctica, other documents’, http://rbth.ru/articles/2012/09/09/russia_us_sign_memorandum_on_cooperation_in_antarctica_other_documen_18084.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia and the United States signed a Mem</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">orandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Antarctica during </span>AND attention given to the system of 'electronic government', and in other areas.

**No impact to the transition – international order accommodates rising powers**
**Ikenberry ‘08** professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University (John, The Rise of China and the Future of the West Can the Liberal System Survive?, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb)

Some observers believe that the American era is coming to an end, as the AND but the Western order -- if managed properly -- will live on.

**Balance of power in Southeast Asia checks war.**
Liselotte **Odgard 01**, Assistant professor of political science, U of Aarhus, Denmark, Contemporary Southeast Asia, August 2001, p292

The balance of power between China, Southeast Asia, and the United States promotes AND to allow for the development of stronger co-operative ties with China.

**China has toned down its threatening posture in the South China Sea.**
Robert **Sutter 02**, Professor of Asian Studies, Georgetown University, 2002, The Washington Quarterly, Autumn, p. 42-3

This area has experienced a growth of Chinese influence, coinciding with a period of AND of conduct that would regulate tension over the disputes and avoid military clashes.

==Mapping Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No military action in the arctic – studies prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**IN**, Ice News – Iceland national news source, 11/29/’**9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(“Military dispute over Arctic resources unlikely,” [[http://www.icenews.is/index.php/2009/12/29/military-dispute-over-arctic-resources-unlikely/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The natural resources of the Arctic region are unlikely to lead to any military conflict AND the Arctic region has little rationale or legal space for military conflict resolution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Give a Russia war impact zero probability – politics, military superiority, economic concerns, and nuclear security all check war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Graham 7** – National Security AdvisorThomas Graham, senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff 2002-2007, 9- 2007, “The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness,” Russia in Global Affairs, pg. 19</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An astute historian of Russia, Martin Malia, wrote several years ago that AND while laying the basis for more constructive long-term relations with Russia.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deterrence Prooves </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aron 07**, Resident scholar and the director of Russian Studies at AEI, 6/29 (Leon, The United States and Russia, [[http://aei.org/publications/pubID.24606,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yet the probability of a frontal confrontation and a new Cold War remains very remote AND of what the U.S. spent ($522 billion).[18]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Threatcon is a self-perpetuating cycle</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jaeger, ‘00** Øyvind Jæger, @ Norweigian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Russian war on Chechnya is one event that was widely interpreted in the Baltic AND the privileged identity as the subversive errand boys of the prime external enemy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cooperation with Russia Now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stars and Stripes 2012** (Seth Robson, “US uses Russian icebreaker to get fuel supplies to Antarctica”, 2/12/12, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/japan/us-uses-russian-icebreaker-to-get-fuel-supplies-to-antarctica-1.168398]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shipping McMURDO STATION, Antarctica — The U.S. is relying on a AND is far shorter than traditional sea lanes connecting Europe and Asia, he said</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Free trade doesn’t solve war – Empirically more wars have started when trade interdependence was high.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Friedman and Friedman 96**, founder, chairman and Chief Intelligence Officer of STRATFOR (Dr.George and Meredith, The Future of War p7-9) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The argument that interdependence gives rise to peace is flawed in theory as well as AND only possible, but, as a simple statistical matter, highly likely.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US will always promote trade, even absent the plan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AFP Google** 10/21/**08** [Bush: Crisis no reason to cut aid, trade, [[http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5jRlyg2jHvo45-dC2dJAvGKASxSAQ]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON (AFP) — President George W. Bush said Tuesday that the United AND summit collapsed over a disagreement on tariffs between the United States and India.</span>
==Russia Sphere DA== 
===1NC=== 

**US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation**
**Eyal 10** (Jonathan, U.S., Russia truly committed to improving their relations, 26 June 2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm)

Yet the meeting between the Russian and American leaders also cements a blossoming new partnership AND of America's trade with China, a figure which is 15 times larger.

**That results in numerous scenarios for nuclear war**
**Cohen 10**—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen,)

The third post-1991 conflict is stated like a mantra by American policymakers: AND I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.

**Independently – encroaching on the Russian sphere causes a HOST of wars**
**Zhukov 8**—Ph.D. candidate, Harvard, Dept. of Government. Masters with Honors, Georgetown School of Foreign Service (Yuri, A Russian “Sphere of Influence” is Geopolitical Reality, http://www.nextamerica.org/node/460,)

Finally, a policy of neo-containment would be counterproductive. The alternative to AND should be keenly aware of the limits of what it can achieve.

===2NC Russia-China War=== 

**Russian influence is essential to prevent a nuclear war with Russia or China**
**Newsweek 1995** (Michael Elliott, “Why Russia still matters to America,” May 15)

"Russia," says Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, "is a big AND If you lived in Moscow, you'd think May was nice, too.)

**Extinction**
**Sharavin, 01** (Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)

Chinese propaganda has constantly been showing us skyscrapers in free trade zones in southeastern China AND both, and even against the first frost of a possible nuclear winter.


===2NC Link=== 

**The US would risk it all to block Russia’s sphere of influence – this cause a US Russian nuke war**
**Eland, 2008** [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]

But the bear is now coming out of a long hibernation a bit rejuvenated. AND to unnecessary U.S.-Russian tension and possibly even cataclysmic war.

**Interference in Russia’s sphere would enrage Russians and result in military confrontation**
**Sanz 8**—Oxford University educated author, essayist, and financial analyst (Daniel, For U.S. Security, Next Administration Will Have To Repair Relationship With Russia, 1 October 2008, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/daniel-bruno-sanz/for-us-security-next-admi_b_130894.html,)

The Obama administration will need to completely overhaul US foreign policy to include de facto AND war. The United States risks military confrontation with Russia at its peril.


==States CP== 
===1NC=== 

**The state governments and relevant territorial actors should fund the construction of two polar icebreakers to be operated by the United States Coast Guard. The state governments should provide funding to ensure that the POLAR SEA remains mission capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation. The state governments should ensure that funding is sustained until project completion**

**States have jurisdiction- Supreme Court Proves**
**NORS, 02** [National Organization for Rivers, 9/16/02, http://www.nationalrivers.org/us-law-who-owns.htm]MF

Which rivers are owned by the public? The U.S. Supreme Court AND purposes, so the court decisions are the applicable law on the subject.

==Science Diplomacy Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

**Non-Unique – The US has been using foreign ships in the past few years**
**O’Rouke 2012** (Ronald O'Rourke Specialist in Naval Affairs, writing for the Congressional Research Service “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress”, June 14, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf)

Although Coast Guard polar icebreakers in the past have performed the annual McMurdo break- AND to about 300 days a year for foreign contractor-operated polar icebreakers.

**Climate research now**
**Stars and Stripes 2012** (Seth Robson, “US uses Russian icebreaker to get fuel supplies to Antarctica”, 2/12/12, http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/japan/us-uses-russian-icebreaker-to-get-fuel-supplies-to-antarctica-1.168398)

MCMURDO STATION, Antarctica — Climate change research that the U.S. military AND the natural system will respond in coming centuries to human caused global warming.”

**Science diplomacy fails – political motivates corrupt its effectiveness.**
**Dickson 09** (David, SciDev, “The limits of science diplomacy,” 6/4/2009, http://www.scidev.net/en/editorials/the-limits-of-science-diplomacy.html)

But — as emerged from a meeting entitled New Frontiers in Science Diplomacy, held AND substitute politics (or perhaps more worryingly, vice versa), is dangerous.

===2NC Squo Solves=== 

**Squo solves – Most recent evidence**
**Lance and Matthews 2011** (EDWARD P. DJEREJIAN, NEAL F. LANE and KIRSTIN R.W. MATTHEWS 3/19/2011 Djerejian, the founding director of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University, is a former U.S. ambassador to Syria and to Israel; Lane is a senior fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute as well as the Malcolm Gillis University Professorand a professor of physics and astronomy at Rice University; Matthews is a fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute and a lecturer for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences at Rice University.( “Science, diplomacy and international collaboration, ”http://www.chron.com/opinion/outlook/article/Science-diplomacy-and-international-collaboration-1683250.php#page-2)

Now, President Barack Obama is engaging Muslim-majority nations by sending prominent scientists AND of related sustainability and security issues, tensions across borders will only increase.

**Arctic isn’t key – here’s a hundred more cards whats good**
**Bilateral agreements**
**Bement, 8** (Arden L., Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF), Before the Committee on Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education United States House of Representative legislative.nasa.gov/hearings/4-2-08%20Bement.pdf)

NSF has long embraced multilateral projects as an essential aspect of its portfolio, beginning AND , evaluation of research results, and science and math education in schools.

**Corporations, internet, mobility, and finance**
**Rock, ‘5** - PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE, BUREAU OF OCEANS AND INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS (Anthony, HEARING ON CHINA ’S HIGH TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BEFORE U.S. - CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION, http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2005hearings/written_testimonies/05_21_22wrts/rock_anthony_wrts.htm)

This win-win scenario of science and technology cooperation is not unique to the AND foundation for international research cooperation opportunities in both the private and public sectors.

**Collaboration programs**
**Bement 08** (Arden L., Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF), Before the Committee on Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education United States House of Representative legislative.nasa.gov/hearings/4-2-08%20Bement.pdf)

OISE works closely with the NSF directorates and other research offices to co-fund AND hosts of NSF International Research Fellows joining U.S. research teams.