[[toc]]
=Nanotech Aff= 
===Newer Plan - Harvard=== 

**The United States federal government should provide substantial investment for surface transportation infrastructure with nano-materials.**

===New Plan - Emory=== 

**The United States federal government should provide substantial surface transportation infrastructure investment through nanotechnology.**

==1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Plan</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially invest in surface transportation through regulated nanotechnology.**

===Econ Advantage=== 
**Best studies prove economic collapse results in conflict**
**ROYAL 10** Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense
[Jedediah Royal, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.



**Decline makes every impact inevitable**
**Lieberthal and O’Hanlon 12** — Kenneth G. Lieberthal, Director of the John L. Thornton China Center and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, former Professor at the University of Michigan, served as special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Asia on the National Security Council, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, and Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, Visiting Lecturer at Princeton University, Adjunct Professor at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Ph.D. from Princeton University, 2012 (“The Real National Security Threat: America's Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 10th, Available Online at http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/07/10-economy-foreign-policy-lieberthal-ohanlon, Accessed 07-12-2012)

. Lastly, American economic weakness undercuts U.S. leadership abroad. Other
AND
really possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not reestablished.


**Hegemony creates structural disincentives for war—theoretical and empirical evidence**
**Wohlforth 9** (William C. Wohlforth, Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, holds an M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University, 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE, p. 29-31)

The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are
AND
identity politics and grand strategies under unipolarity are consistent with the theory’s expectations.

**And, alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.**
**Barnhizer 6** — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)

The scale of social needs, including the need for expanded productive activity, has
AND
social justice while avoiding and mitigating the most destructive consequences of our behavior.




**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war**
**Gartzke 11** – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]

Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring
AND
the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.



**Transportation Infrastructure is crumbling now – that will decimate the economy – only fixing it solves – that also destroys our manufacturing industry.**
**EDR Group 11** (Economic Development Research Group, Inc.—a consulting firm focusing specifically on applying state-of-the-art tools and techniques for evaluating economic development performance, impacts, and opportunities, comprised of economists and planners who are specialists in evaluating the impacts of transportation infrastructure, services, and technology on economic development opportunities, 2011 “Executive Summary,” Failure to Act: The Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure, Report Prepared for the American Society of Civil Engineers by the Economic Development Research Group, Inc., http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf, p. 3-6)

The nation’s surface transportation infrastructure includes the critical highways, bridges, railroads, and <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND goods and services, relative to competing product prices from around the globe.</span>

**The plan solves—a substantial investment in infrastructure stimulus would create jobs and boost aggregate demand.**
**Blodget 12** (Henry Blodget, co-founder, CEO, and Editor-In Chief of Business Insider, former top-ranked Wall Street analyst, frequent contributor to the magazines Slate, Newsweek, and New York, 2012 “Yes, It's Time For A Massive Infrastructure Spending Program,” Business Insider, June 19th, Available Online at http://www.businessinsider.com/infrastructure-spending-program-2012-6?op=1, Accessed 09-03-2012)
I recently laid out the fundamental problem with the US economy: Massive consumer debts <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND lousy shape and so many US workers idled by the construction industry slowdown.</span>

**The Fed just implemented a new round of Quantitative Easing—this non-uniques their “stimulus bad,” “inflation,” and “downgrade” arguments.**
**Demint 2012** (Jim Demint, United States Senator (R-SC), 9/20/2012, “Fed Stimulus Goes From 'Shot In The Arm' To 'QE4-Ever',” Investor’s Business Daily, September 20th,http://news.investors.com/ibd-editorials-viewpoint/092012-626455-fed-stimulus-program-shows-no-end.htm)

We really ought to quit calling the Federal Reserve's latest round of quantitative easing <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND further reduces the value of the dollar and raises the price of commodities.</span>

**The simple question is how we should approach transportation investment – materials we have now will inevitably break down, only a transition to nanotech can be sustainable**
**Steyn 08** (Prof Wynand Steyn is a professional pavement engineer with an interest in pavement engineering, vehicle-pavement interaction, accelerated pavement testing and pavement materials and instrumentation. He has spent 19 years with CSIR in various technical and managerial positions and is currently associate professor of civil engineering (focusing on road pavement related subjects) at the University of Pretoria (UP). He is responsible for all pavement and pavement material related undergraduate and post graduate courses at UP, “RESEARCH AND APPLICATION OF NANOTECHNOLOGY IN TRANSPORTATION”, [[http://repository.up.ac.za/bitstream/handle/2263/6352/Steyn.pdf?sequence=1]], pdf)

The client for most transportation engineering facilities is the general public, and therefore most <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND process with elements in concrete to lower NOx pollution (Cassar, 2005).</span>

**ONLY that creates the best surface transportation fixes and creates monitoring regimes that reduce the impacts of climate and attacks on infrastructure**
**Khan 11** (Mohammud, The author is Senior Vice President, Professional Service Industries, Inc., Herndon, Virginia., “Nanotechnology in Transportation: Evolution of a Revolutionary Technology”, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/trnews/trnews277.pdf)

Nanomodification of concrete is analogous to modifying and controlling the genes and DNA in the <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or terrorist attacks (photo, below).</span>

**Specifically, the federal government is key to spurring investment**
**Tour 11** (James, Ph.D. at the Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology, Rice University,http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/Tour%20Testimony.pdf, 12/26)

In order to preserve our leadership role, we must support federal nanotechnology funding beyond <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND has the potential to be a world class global competitor.</span>

**Maintaining a large power differential is key—innovation is the lynchpin of hegemony.**
**Tellis 9 —** Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 55-56)

Second, and equally importantly, who wins in the ensuing struggle — whether that <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND problems would invariably contribute to the conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals.</span>

**That’s is uniquely key in this instance – advanced R&D spills over to effective manufacturing**
**Lind 12** (Policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation (Michael, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael %20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf )

Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND from 20-30 percent in 2007 to 50 percent by 2020.33</span>

**Advanced manufacturing technology makes war obsolete – it’s the ultimate deterrent**
**Paone 09** (66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force, Chuck, 8-10-09, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)

The convergence of "exponentially advancing technologies" will form a "super-intelligence <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.</span>

===Nanotech Advantage=== 

**Nanotech is humanity’s final arms race – Nano development is inevitable**
**Marlow 04** (John, Interview on the Superswarm Option, Nanotechnology Now, February, [[http://www.nanotech-now.com/John-Marlow-Superswarm-interview-Feb04.htm]], JT)

Marlow's 2nd Paradox As stated in the Nano novel, Marlow's Second Paradox is this <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND earth may well be doomed. This is the way the world ends.</span>

**Uncontrolled nanotech causes extinction that outweighs nuclear war – the risk is existential**
**Treder and Phoenix 07** (Mike, consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University and to the Future Technologies Advisory Group, Chris, CRN’s directory of research,Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, April 16, [[http://www.crnano.org/overview.htm]])

Nanotech weapons would be extremely powerful and could lead to a dangerously unstable arms race <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND of nuclear nations, increasing the chance of a regional conflict blowing up.</span>

**Development of defensive nanomeasures now allows us to control the effect of the nanorace. Every delay increases the risk of extinction.**
**Treder and Phoenix 07** (Mike, consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University and to the Future Technologies Advisory Group, Chris, CRN’s directory of research,Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, April 16, [[http://www.crnano.org/early.htm]])

Overview: Early development of molecular nanotechnology (MNT) increases some risks, but <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND not a risk, but any risk must be balanced against it.</span>

**Plan provides a sustainable strategy for development**
**Khan 11** (Mohammud, The author is Senior Vice President, Professional Service Industries, Inc., Herndon, Virginia., “Nanotechnology in Transportation: Evolution of a Revolutionary Technology”, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/trnews/trnews277.pdf)

Changing the structure of a material at nanoscale changes its physical, mechanical, electrical, AND and sustainability of the transportation infrastructure without offering many specific details (4).

===Nanotech Advantage -- Cyber Scenario=== 

**Nano key to quantum encryption**
**Koenig 2k8** (Kelly, consultant with CSC's Global Business Solutions. extensive experience in business architecture, risk mitigation and process improvement solutions, master’s degree from Northwestern University (joint program with Kellogg School of Management and McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science. December 2008, “ Bleeding Edge: Nanotechnological Applications In Quantum Cryptography)

After considering the physical limits of today’s technology and the energy needs we face today AND collaborations. Such collaborations ensure that the benefits of nanotechnology will be realized.

**Leadership is necessary – falling behind in quantum encryption leads to cyber attacks**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Shay 10** (Christopher, Time Correspondent, “ China's Great (Quantum) Leap Forward,” Sep. 09, 2010, Time.com, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2016687,00.html)</span>

The advance in secure communications comes none too soon. With ever-increasing computing AND secrecy. In these ways, China has made a quantum leap forward.

**The threat is real—takes out C and C and causes nuclear war**
**Tilford 12** Robert, Graduate US Army Airborne School, Ft. Benning, Georgia, "Cyber attackers could shut down the electric grid for the entire east coast" 2012, http://www.examiner.com/article/cyber-attackers-could-easily-shut-down-the-electric-grid-for-the-entire-east-coa

To make matters worse a cyber attack that can take out a civilian power grid AND include the use of "nuclear weapons", if authorized by the President.

**Cyber-attack is coming —-actors are probing grid weaknesses**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Reed 12** John, Reports on the frontiers of cyber war and the latest in military technology for Killer Apps at Foreign Policy, "U.S. energy companies victims of potentially destructive cyber intrusions", 10/11, killerapps.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/11/us_energy_companies_victims_of_potentially_destructive_cyber_attacks</span>

Foreign actors are probing the networks of key American companies in an attempt to gain AND power plants infected by Stuxnet very far away from Iran," Kaspersky said.

===Nanotech Advantage -- Warming Scenario=== 

**Warming inevitable—the positive feedback cycles have already been triggered**
**Soloman et. al 10** [Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), 8/31/2010, “Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases,” PNAS vol. 107, no. 43, http://www.pnas.org/content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+html]

Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND behavior of warming and differ from model to model (3, 36).</span>

**Nanotech is key to carbon and pollution cleanup**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Peterson and Heller 7** Christine Peterson, co- founder and President of Foresight Institute, serves on the Advisory Board of the International Council on Nanotechnology and the Editorial Advisory Board of NASA's Nanotech Briefs, and served on California's Blue Ribbon Task Force on Nanotechnology. Jacob Heller, Policy associate for the Foresight Nanotech Institute. A Truman Scholar, he received his B.A. in politics and economics from Pitzer College. “Nanotech’s Promise: Overcoming Humanity’s More Pressing Challenges” in “Nanoethics: The Ethical and Social Implications of Nanotechnology” Copyright 2007, we don’t endorse the gendered language</span>

Nanotechnology Solutions Nanotechnology holds the possibility for relieving many of the man-made pressures <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND or remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to help reduce greenhouse gas pollution.</span>

**Solves extinction**
**Romero, 8** [Purple, reporter for ABS-CBN news, 05/17/2008, Climate change and human extinction--are you ready to be fossilized? http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/nation/05/16/08/climate-change-and-human-extinction-are-you-ready-be-fossilized

Climate change killed the dinosaurs. Will it kill us as well? Will we <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND efforts to get health care, emergency supplies, rescue efforts, etc.</span>

**Existential threat**
**Doebbler 11**. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm

Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.</span>


==Impact Turns== 
===2AC Nano Inev=== 

**Nano Inev**
**Reynolds 03** (Glenn Harlan Reynolds, Beauchamp Brogan Distinguished Professor of Law, University of Tennessee College of Law. J.D., Yale Law School, 1985; B.A., University of Tennessee, 1982, Harvard Journal of Law & Technology Volume 17, Number 1 Fall 2003 DRAFT Do not reference - formatting and pagination may not correspond to printed version NANOTECHNOLOGY AND REGULATORY POLICY: THREE FUTURES, [[http://pjmedia.com/instapundit-archive/lawrev/HJOLTnano.pdf]])

The relinquishment approach was originally taken by nanotechnology pioneer K. Eric Drexler, whose <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND great, the advantages too few, and the difficulties too involved. 56</span>


===AT: Nanotech = Arms Race=== 

**Uniqueness mattes – nanotech inev – people are developing nanoweapons now <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Japan, UK, Etc</span>**
**UN 06** United Nations Education, “The Ethics and Politics of Nanotechnology” http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0014/001459/145951e.pdf

Following this initial surge of research money in the US, several other nations have A<span style="line-height: 1.5;">ND clear that national research priorities in science and technology include research into nanotechnology.</span>

**Self-replicating nanobots are impossible – 3 reasons.**
**Science 2k** [Robert F. Service, “Is Nanotechnology Dangerous?” Volume 290, Number 5496, November 24, http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/290/5496/1526)

Richard Smalley, a Nobel Prize-winning chemist at Rice University in Houston <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND It's not real now and will never be in the future."</span>
==Disads== 
===2AC Immigration Reform=== 

**Nanotech ensures nuclear survivability**
**Gubrud 97** (Mark Avrum. Superconductivity Researcher at U of MD. 1997. “Nanotechnology and International Security.” Foresight 5th Conference Paper. [[http://www.csr.umd.edu/~mgubrud/nanosec1.html]])

If nuclear weapons remain limited in number, advanced nanotechnology could eventually undermine their potency <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND perhaps in as little as a few hours) could also be provided.</span>

**No unique impact latin drug cartel that increases instability in the region**
**Chalk, 2011** (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact and Response”, RAND)

The drug trade has had an effect across South, Central, and North America <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND undermined political stability by feeding pervasive corruption throughout the police and administrative bureaucracy.</span>

**No passage—gun control and the debt limit pound and substantial obstacles**
**Financial Times 1/21/12** (“Obama faces crowded agenda”, [[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/e2c76f2a-63f1-11e2-b92c-00144feab49a.html#axzz2IlJr8KcP|http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/e2c76f2a-63f1-11e2-b92c-00144feab49a.html#axzz2IlJr8KcP]], Hemanth)

Early in Barack Obama’s first term, as the economy tumbled around him and the <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND who traditionally loses power as his term goes on, will be narrow.</span>

**Boehner won’t bring it up also no internal link because there is no bill their evidence Is just media speculations**
**The Hill 1/22/13** (“Boehner: GOP to focus on debt, not immigration or climate”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/budget/278681-boehner-gop-to-focus-on-debt-not-immigration-or-climate]],)

Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) said Tuesday that House Republicans would keep <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND that bipartisan opposition to legislative action is still a reality,” Carney said.</span>

**Republicans will filibuster immigration reform**
**Cohen 1/18** (Larry Cohen CWA and Deepak Bhargava, Center for Community Change, “Path to immigration reform is paved by filibuster reform on Jan 18, 2013 from [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/278037-path-to-immigration-reform-is-paved-by-filibuster-reform]])

The world’s great deliberative body is mired in gridlock because of filibuster abuse. The <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND above $250,000. It was $400,000.   </span>

**The bill causes an Indian brain drain**
**Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012** (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)

"Comprehensive immigration reform will see expansion of skilled labor visas," predicted B. <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND see the immigration opportunity as a bigger plus than not," he said.</span>

**Kills the Indian economy**
**Desai et al 9** – Chair of Doctoral Programs at the Harvard Business School (Mihir, with Devesh Kapur, Associate Professor for the Study of Contemporary India, and John McHale and Keith Rogers, Queens University of Ontario, “The fiscal impact of high-skilled emigration: Flows of Indians to the US,” Journal of Development Economics 88 (2009) 32–34, Elsevier)

Human capital outflows of this magnitude will influence a developing country in myriad ways <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND ex ante design of fiscal policy, typically in an optimal taxation framework.</span>

**Indopak war – goes global**
**Bouton 10** (Marshall M., President – Chicago Council on Global Affairs, “America’s Interests in India”, CNAS Working Paper, October, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_USInterestsinIndia_]] Bouton.pdf)

In South Asia, the most immediately compelling U.S. interest is preventing <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND and terrorism, and much greater potential for unchecked interstate and civil conflict.</span>

**Sandy thumps all spending links**
**Reuters 1/4/13** (“Congress approves Storm Sandy relief amid anger over delay”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/01/04/us-storm-sandy-aid-idUSBRE90001Q20130104]], Hemanth)

The Congress on Friday approved $9.7 billion in initial relief for victims <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND to resolve differences in the two aid packages before the January 15 vote.</span>


**Hagel will get confirmed thanks entirely to Obama political capital – but it could still come undone**
**Washington Times 1/8/2013(**[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/jan/8/little-enthusiasm-on-capitol-hill-for-hagel-nomina/#ixzz2HUcSjUfS|http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/jan/8/little-enthusiasm-on-capitol-hill-for-hagel-nomina/#ixzz2HUcSjUfS]])

Even before it became official Monday, Mr. Hagel’s nomination had kicked up a
AND
sometimes even the “safest” picks can unravel during the confirmation process.



**Boehner Pushes the plan**
**Boehner’s Congressional Record** (On the issues, “John Boehner on Corporations¶ Republican Representative (OH-8)”, [[http://www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner_Corporations.htm]])

Voted YES on more funding for nanotechnology R&D and commercialization.¶ Congressional Summary
AND
have to first develop new industries. Commercialization is critical to that process.


**No impact – Trade ties prevent war.**
**CTV 08**, March 3, 2008, http://www.ctv.ca/servlet/ArticleNews/story/CTVNews/20080303/chavez_colombia_080303/20080303?hub=CTVNewsAt11.

On CTV Newsnet, Vladimir Torres, a consultant for the Canadian Foundation for the
AND
countries, citing the massive amount of trade that exists between the countries.

===2AC Ethanol DA=== 
1**. No impact to soil erosion****.**
**Jerry Taylor 93,** Director of Natural Resource Studies at the CATO Institute, “The Growing Abundance of Natural Resources” in “Market Liberalism: A Paradigm for the 21st Century”, 1993, http://cato.org/pubs/chapters/marlib21.html

Although conservationists argue that accelerating soil erosion will make those productivity gains short-lived
AND
would pose no serious threat to the productivity of the nation's soils.31

**2. Soil erosion is media hype – There’s no threat**
**Simon 97** [Washington Times, [[https://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6139]] Julian L., prof. at the U of Maryland and is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.]

Then in a Jan. 11, 1983, speech President Reagan said, "
AND
of the American public, and were used to justify the USDA giveaways.


**Nano solves**
**Peterson and Heller 7** Christine Peterson, co- founder and President of Foresight Institute, serves on the Advisory Board of the International Council on Nanotechnology and the Editorial Advisory Board of NASA's Nanotech Briefs, and served on California's Blue Ribbon Task Force on Nanotechnology. Jacob Heller, Policy associate for the Foresight Nanotech Institute. A Truman Scholar, he received his B.A. in politics and economics from Pitzer College. “Nanotech’s Promise: Overcoming Humanity’s More Pressing Challenges” in “Nanoethics: The Ethical and Social Implications of Nanotechnology” Copyright 2007, we don’t endorse the gendered language

Nanotechnology Solutions Nanotechnology holds the possibility for relieving many of the man-made pressures
AND
or remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to help reduce greenhouse gas pollution.
==Counterplans== 
===States CP=== 
**Perm do both – double solvency**
**DOC 02** (US department of Commerce WEATHER INFORMATION FOR SURFACE TRANSPORTATION NATIONAL NEEDS ASSESSMENT REPORT, December 2002, [[http://www.ofcm.gov/wist_report/pdf/entire_wist.pdf]])

Transportation demand is predicted to double in the next 20 years and triple in 50
AND
, anytime, on-time, efficiently, safely, and securely.

**Federal action is key – MASSIVE investment is a pre-requisite**
**Lane and Kalil 05** (Neal Lane, PhD and senior fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute, Thomas Kalil, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, “The National Nanotechnology Initiative: Present at the Creation” Summer 2005 [[http://www.issues.org/21.4/lane.html]])

Still, as a commercial enterprise, nanotechnology is in its infancy. For example
AND
creating new sources of carbon-free energy that are competitive with fossil fuels


**State fundraising decimates the economy—spending cuts and tax increases undercut demand.**
**Quinnell 12** — Kenneth Quinnell, political analyst and writer at Crooks & Liars, Adjunct Instructor in History at Tallahassee Community College, 2012 (“New Report Shows State Budget Cuts Have Hurt the Economy,” Crooks & Liars, April 21st, Available Online at http://crooksandliars.com/kenneth-quinnell/new-report-shows-state-budget-cut, Accessed 06-27-2012)

A new report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "Out of
AND
budgets that many more citizens are in vulnerable situations than before the recession.

**IPR, financing, federal prototypes, safety standards all make federal funding necessary.**
**Sargent 08** (John F. Sargent 5/15/08, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Nanotechnology and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]])

Survey of Industry Views on the Federal Role A survey of U.S.
AND
and Civic Opinion at the University of Massachusetts-Lowell, Fall 2006.

**Fed key to solve risk -- states fail at it**
**Sargent 08** (John, specialist in Science and Tech Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Nanotechnolgoy and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]])

Much of the public dialogue on how the government can advance U.S.
AND
) sought to spur collaborative research and manufacturing efforts by lowering legal barriers.

**Sensor detection capabilities are key—prerequisite to response and is key to casualty care—and federal government key**
**Gerstein 10** (2010, Dr. Daniel Gerstein is a Strategist and Policy Expert with significant operational experience. He has written extensively about national security, “Bioterror in the Age of Biotechnology” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/gerstein.pdf)

Developing and fielding new realtime sensors that provide a detect-to-warn capability
AND
for global disease reporting by 2012 represent an important step in global biosurveillance.

**Controlling the deathtoll is key – bioterror results in extinction**
**Conley 3** (Chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)

The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be the
AND
would be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made.”
===Private Sector CP=== 
**Perm do both – double solvency**
**DOC 02** (US department of Commerce WEATHER INFORMATION FOR SURFACE TRANSPORTATION NATIONAL NEEDS ASSESSMENT REPORT, December 2002, [[http://www.ofcm.gov/wist_report/pdf/entire_wist.pdf]])

Transportation demand is predicted to double in the next 20 years and triple in 50
AND
, anytime, on-time, efficiently, safely, and securely.


**Federal action is key – MASSIVE investment is a pre-requisite also solves oil dependence**
**Lane and Kalil 05** (Neal Lane, PhD and senior fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute, Thomas Kalil, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, “The National Nanotechnology Initiative: Present at the Creation” Summer 2005 [[http://www.issues.org/21.4/lane.html]])

Still, as a commercial enterprise, nanotechnology is in its infancy. For example
AND
creating new sources of carbon-free energy that are competitive with fossil fuels

**IPR, financing, federal prototypes, safety standards all make federal funding necessary.**
**Sargent 08** (John F. Sargent 5/15/08, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Nanotechnology and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]])

Survey of Industry Views on the Federal Role A survey of U.S.
AND
and Civic Opinion at the University of Massachusetts-Lowell, Fall 2006.

**Private doesn’t solve neither do taxes**
**Sargent 08** (John, specialist in Science and Tech Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Nanotechnolgoy and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]])

Much of the public dialogue on how the government can advance U.S.
AND
) sought to spur collaborative research and manufacturing efforts by lowering legal barriers.

**Sensor detection capabilities are key—prerequisite to response and is key to casualty care—and federal government key**
**Gerstein 10** (2010, Dr. Daniel Gerstein is a Strategist and Policy Expert with significant operational experience. He has written extensively about national security, “Bioterror in the Age of Biotechnology” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/gerstein.pdf)

Developing and fielding new realtime sensors that provide a detect-to-warn capability
AND
for global disease reporting by 2012 represent an important step in global biosurveillance.

**Controlling the deathtoll is key – bioterror results in extinction**
**Conley 3** (Chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)

The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be the
AND
would be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made.”
==Add-ons== 
===2AC Disease / AIDS=== 
**Nanomedicine would cure cancer, aids and other infectious diseases** 
**Merta, 2k** (Ed Merta, Health Sciences Center Library, University of New Mexico, 2000, The nanotechnology agenda: molecular machines and social transformation in the 21st century, [[http://www.checs.net/checs_00/presentations/nanotech.htm]])

Nanorobots could also serve as artificial immune devices, attacking the viruses and bacteria that 
AND
with a telescopic sight that kills only a specific target. [21]


**Uncontained disease leads to extinction**
**Toolis 09** , the director of a major television series on the history of plagues, 09(Kevin, The Express, April 28, 2009 U.K. 1st Edition “Pandemic Pandemonium” lexis)

It destroyed the Roman Empire, wiped out most of the New World and
AND
new H1N1 virus it had travelled halfway across the world via international flights.

**Specifically AIDS leads to global nuclear war**
**Koblentz, 10** (Deputy Director of the Biodefense Program @ GMU, Assistant Professor in Public and International Affairs, March, "Biosecurity
Reconsidered: Calibrating Biological Threats and Responses." International Security Vol. 34, No. 4, p. 96-132)

Pandemics are disease outbreaks that occur over a wide geographic area, such as a
AND
the "single greatest reversal in human development" in modern history. 118
===2AC Space Colonization=== 
**Plan solves space col**
**Globus et al 98** (Al Globus, David Bailey, Jie Han, Richard Jaffe, Creon Levit, Ralph Merkle, and Deepak Srivastava Published in The Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, volume 51, pp. 145-152, 1998., “NASA applications of molecular nanotechnology”, [[http://www.zyvex.com/nanotech/NASAapplications.html]])

Laboratories throughout the world are rapidly gaining atomically precise control over matter. As this
AND
other technologies; technologies that may enable large scale space exploration and colonization.

**Extinction is inevitable- only getting off the rock can solve**
**Austen 11** [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]

Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. We know that in two billion years
AND
will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”
==Kritiks== 
===AT: Econ Kritik=== 
**AT: Econ Construction of threats does not cause wars**
**Kaufman 09** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Stuart J, Prof Poli Sci and IR – U Delaware, “Narratives and Symbols in Violent Mobilization: The Palestinian-Israeli Case,” Security Studies 18:3, 400 – 434)</span>

Even when hostile narratives, group fears, and opportunity are strongly present, war
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and opportunity </span>spur hostile attitudes, chauvinist mobilization, and a security dilemma<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Nanotech Solves capitalism**
**McCarthy 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas McCarthy, Assistant Director of Graduate Admissions at Boston University’s Graduate School of Management 2000. “Molecular Technology and the World System.”http://www.mccarthy.cx/WorldSystem/intro.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A state's social structure will be important because it may affect not only the state's </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">advantages that go along with one-man or one-party rule.</span>


===2AC Spanos=== 
**Epistemology and ontology don’t come first**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 16pt;">Owen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, University of Southampton, July </span><span style="font-size: 16pt;">2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Re-orienting International Relations: On Pragmatism, Pluralism, and Practical Reasoning,” Millennium – Journal of International Studies, 31.3, p. 655-656</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">, it is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">not the</span><span class="underline"> only or even necessarily the </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">most important kind. </span>

**A) Uniqueness matters – US has already constructed threats – the military perceives things a certain way – plan addresses proximate causes while the alt is a retreat from politics**
**Wendt 92** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Alexander, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Chicago, International Organization, v46 n2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let us assume that processes of identity- and interest-formation have created </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
identities and in have become institutionalized, //they are almost impossible to transform////.//

**Dissident IR -- politicization and critique reproduces sovereignty and exploitation. Only political action within international relations can break the shackles of global oppression**
**Agathangelou and Ling, 1997**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Anna M., Director of the Global Change Institute in Nicosia and Former Assistant Professor of Women’s Studies and Politics at Oberlin; L.H.M., Institute of Social Studies at the Hague, Studies in Political Economy, v54, Fall, p. 7-8)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet, ironically if not tragically, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">dissident IR</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">also </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">paralyzes itself into non-</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">reconstruction, particulars from universals, and critical theory from problem-solving. </span>

**No single cause of violence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Muro-Ruiz 2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Diego, London School of Economics, “The Logic of Violence”, Politics, 22(2), p. 116)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Violence is, most of the time, a wilful choice, especially if it </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">approaches, since they each offer some understanding of the logic of violence. </span>

**5. Death outweighs – cant have value without life – default to irreversibility**
Zygmunt **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bauman,</span>** University Of Leeds Professor Emeritus Of Sociology, Life In Fragments: Essays In Postmodern Morality, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span>**, p. 66-71.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>being‑for is **__like living towards‑the‑future__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: a being </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the being‑with) that we turn into moral selves. And </span>

**Collapse of heg causes US lashout**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieven 11</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Anatol, works for the New America Foundation, 7/11/11, “U.S.-Russian Relations and the Rise of China,” New America Foundation, [[http://newamerica.net/publications/policy/us_russian_relations_and_the_rise_of_china]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">There, but also to a considerable degree across Europe, landed and industrial </span>elites
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">between the U.S. and China in the decades to come.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Deterrence is the only stable foundation for the international system—internal link turns self-fulfilling prophesy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lupovici 08</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">(Amir, Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies, Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse, [[@http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf|http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/ papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Since </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">deterrence</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> can become part of the actors’ identity, it </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">is</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">involved in </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">it </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>

**American hegemony defeats the worst forms of imperialism**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaufman 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, professor of public policy at the Pepperdine School of Public Policy. In Defense Of The Bush Doctrine. Pg. 66)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The issue is not whether a broad coalition is desirable, but when in what </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">related – thereafter. This often turns out to be a long business.</span>

**9. Reject alternatives that don’t specify an actor or a course of action causes 2NC shifts, can’t generate offense – also means no solvency**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Wyn </span>**Jones, 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory,” ciao </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because emancipatory political practice is central to the claims of </span>critical theory<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one might </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">epistemological and </span>methodological claims and<span class="underline"> thus that it </span>is<span class="underline"> a </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">fatally flawed enterprise.</span>

**10. A stable international order is a __pre-requisite__ for any alternative approach**
**Linklater 1990**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew – senior lecturer in politics at Monash University, Beyond Realism and Marxism: Critical Theory and International Relations, p. 32)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These theoretical disagreements with Marxism generate major differences at the practical level. It is </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//for order//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and the </span>//possibility of emancipation//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> through the extension of human community.</span>


**Obama solves superpower syndrome---and if he doesn’t, the plan only makes it worse by triggering a conservative backlash---cut some Lifton updates**
Robert J. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lifton 11</span>, aff guy, 2011, Witness to an Extreme Century: A Memoir, p. 405-406
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> all of the American angst during the first year or so of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Obama </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
//in the backlash//<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> over the election of our first African-American president.</span>

**Quantifier variance – ontological argument is just linguistic posturing that prag resolves**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Hirsch 2</span>
Article: QUANTIFIER VARIANCE AND REALISM Author: Hirsch, Eli Journal: Philosophical issues ISSN: 1533-6077 Date: 10/2002 Volume: 12 Issue: 1 Page: 51 DOI: 10.1111/j.1758-2237.2002.tb00061.x

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I think it's clear that Putnam's use of ""metaphysical realism" has sometimes been </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but rather to </span>//the common-sense philosopher's ridicule of needless philosophical paradox.//

**The alt is violent, causes passivity, and makes exploitation worse**
Graham ’99 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Phil, Graduate School of Management, University of Queensland, Heidegger’s Hippies: A dissenting voice on the “problem of the subject” in cyberspace, Identities in Action! 1999, [[http://www.philgraham.net/HH_conf.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Societies should get worried when Wagner’s music becomes popular because it usually means that distorted </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which “subjective death” and ontology are the least of all worries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Tech thought is inevitable**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kateb</span>, professor of politics – Princeton, <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">‘97</span>
(George, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2267/is_/ai_19952031)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the question arises as to where a genuine principle of limitation on technological endeavor </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">least, are not to be cut loose from the highest human aspiration.</span>

**The alt doesn’t spillover**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Yar</span>, lecturer, School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research – University of Kent, <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2K</span>
(Majid, Arendt's Heideggerianism: Contours of a `Postmetaphysical' Political Theory?, Cultural Values, Volume 4, Issue 1)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we must consider the consequences that this 'ontological substitution' for the essence of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">divesting politics of any other practical and normative ends in the process</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Spanos’ criticism is ineffective – its assumptions are problematic, it relies on flawed historical assertions, and it wishes away logocentrism – this takes our their implications and any alternative solvency.**
J. Russell Perkin ‘93, Professor of English at Saint Mary's University
[“Theorizing the Culture Wars,” Postmodern Culture, Vol. 3, No. 3, Project Muse at http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/postmodern_culture/v003/3.3r_perkin.html]
The genealogy Spanos constructs is impressive, and later developments have certainly vindicated his view
AND
__recognizes more explicitly, that one cannot escape logocentrism simply by wishing to__.


=TGD Aff= 
==1AC== 
===Advantage=== 
We begin with a narrative from Jean Flynn in 2012
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jean M. Flynn, June 29, 2012, “Lorain County Transit- an unacceptable situation”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://midlifeandtreachery.wordpress.com/2012/06/29/lorain-county-transit-an-unacceptable-situation/]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Imagine you woke up tomorrow and there were no cars. You didn’t have one</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
//to voice our opinions about this. Be heard.////<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Irony of Ironies,//
//Couldn’t get there to talk about why I couldn’t get there//
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">This is the status quo, a world of seemingly innocuous investment decisions render differently-abled people prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Ablism is surrounded by the creation of infrastructure. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Langan 01</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>

**__To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges of__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Transportation is the root cause of social exclusion – nothing else can explain relations of power that create how we view people NOW</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Imrie 2000</span> D<span style="font-size: 6pt;">epartment of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London( Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>inequities of mobility<span class="TitleChar"> and movement </span>are connected to sociocultural values<span class="TitleChar"> and practices </span>which prioritise
AND
<span class="TitleChar">for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Our conception of disability is a litmus test for all other impacts – we turn the disads</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bagenstos, 2000</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Samuel R., Law Professor at Harvard, 86 Va. L. Rev. 397, April)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a useful tool here. Although "stigma" </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">people with disabilities </span>have <span class="TitleChar">effectively </span>**__marked that group as a "dependent caste."__**

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Hughes 02</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>dominant framework for understanding disability<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the modern period </span>has been<span class="TitleChar"> the </span>medical model
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>biological reductionism may<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at its worst </span>**__translate into a politics of genocide__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Framing</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 2 is the frame of reference</span>

Contention 2 is the frame of reference
The role of the ballot is to deliberate over questions of social justice.

Justice requires we foster the provision of basic freedoms to all in society; removing the social impediments are a central question in discussing transportation policy.
Hull 2009 (Richard, Lecturer in Philosophy and Director of the Centre for Bioethical Research and Analysis at the National University of Ireland, Galway “Disability and freedom” in Arguing about Disability, eds. Kristjana Kristiansen, Simo Vehmas and Tom Shakespeare)

This chapter presents disability as an issue of human freedom. It discusses the relation
AND
a negative sense. That claim is evasive and renders freedom rather mysterious.

This re-framing connects debate pedagogy to political struggles against ablism—the ballot serves to legitimize certain knowledge, sanction certain values, and construct particular forms of agency.
Giroux 10/16 (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair Professorship in the Department of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 2012, “Can Democratic Education Survive in a Neoliberal Society?,” truthout, October 16th, [[http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/12126-can-democratic-education-survive-in-a-neoliberal-society]])

Schools should be viewed as crucial to any viable notion of democracy, while the
AND
counts as knowledge, sanctions particular values and constructs particular forms of agency.


Any attempts to frame debate away from questions of justice and access to deliberative spaces are politically disempowering and ensure a politics of futile confrontation as opposed to continual self-revisioning.
Nieutvenhuis 2010 Prof Jan Nieutvenhuis, Dept of Education Management and Policy Studies, Faculty of Education, University of Pretoria, Acta Academica 2011: 43(1) – available at: http://up-za.academia.edu/JanNieuwenhuis/Papers/882363/Social_justice_in_education_today

Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled
AND
to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.

The laws we prescribe themselves carry modes of exclusion and enduce psychic violence
Campbell 2009 (Fiona Kumari , Senior Lecturer in Disability Studies at the School of Human Services & Social Work Griffith University and Adjunct Professor in Disability Studies, Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, "States of Exceptionality: Provisional Disability, its Mitigation, and Citizenship", http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/109813/20_Marshall_Vol3_Ch19_p273-p284.pdf)

Law has traditionally had an ambivalent attitude toward disabled people, restricting itself to being
AND
towards a universalized codiﬁcation of disability (norms) is on the increase.

Those are conditions that are indistinguishable from the physical violence their DAs will identify

Jones 94 (Senior Lecturer of Law @ University of New South Wales Melinda Jones, "Empowering Victims of Racial Hatred by Outlawing Spirit-Murder" (1994) Australian Journal of Human Rights, 1(1) AUJlHRights 19, pg. [[http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/journals/AJHR/1994/19.html#fn48|http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/journals/AJHR/1994/19.html#fn48]])

Words that vilify constitute forms of `pyschic violence' and emotional abuse that undermine a
AND
core of the victim's being - not just to reputation but to identity.

The relegation of disability to the periphery via security is a tool of neoliberal empire that masks ongoing biopolitical action against people with disability
McRuer, 2010 (Robert, Professor of English and Deputy Chair of the Department of English at George Washington University, "Disability Nationalism in Crip Times")

Murderball, however, is just one prominent sign—whether marking at this point
AND
thought and action, for solidarity and coalition. [End Page 176]

Economics are a rouse; it is a constant excuse for maintaining the boundaries that exclude the disabled – voting for their disad only reinforces the societal view of the disabled that we are criticizing
Johnson, 2007 (Mary, Editor of Ragged Edge Magazine, “Before Its Time: Public Perception of Disability Rights, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Future of Access and Accommodation”, Washington University Journal of Law and Policy, 23 Wash. U. J.L. & Pol'y 121, April 12)

In 1990 the ADA passed both houses of Congress by huge majorities.8 Although
AND
had to do physical things, which they generally viewed as costly things.

Federal action is key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure
Fine & Hall 10 Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich, Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010 [[http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf]])

Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, health, education
AND
obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.

War doesn’t happen
Deudney and Ikenberry 09 (Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND **Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University [Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” Foreign Affairs)

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing
AND
international system is far more primed for peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.

===Plan=== 
**TEXT: The United States Federal Government should provide substantial transportation infrastructure transgenerational design investment**

**Plan changes the physical design of environments and create empathy.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TDM 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Transgenerational Design Matters, “What is ‘transgenerational design?’” [[http://transgenerational.org/viewpoint/transgenerational.htm]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">TRANSGENERATIONAL DESIGN is NOT about</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> producing products for "the aged," "elderly housing</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">," </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and "disability" connotations</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transgenerational designs </span>//sympathize rather than stigmatize//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



**Narratives help us understand the epistemology of the inherent ableism in debate and society- Our use of the narrative relating to disability studies is crucial to disrupting abelist modes of thought.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferri 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Beth, Teachers College Record, “Disability Life Writing and the Politics of Knowing”, Volume 113 Number 10,[[%20http:/syr.academia.edu/BethFerri/Papers/661249/Disability_Life_Writing_and_the_Politics_of_Knowing| Associate Professor, The Center on Human Policy, Law, and Disability Studies, Syracuse University, http://syr.academia.edu/BethFerri/Papers/661249/Disability_Life_Writing_and_the_Politics_of_Knowing]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Seeking to interrupt the dominant scripts of disability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ferri, 2008) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and to </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and challenge conventional meanings ascribed to disability (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">pp. 109-110).</span>



=Accessibility Affirmative= 
=1AC= 
==Aesthetic Law Advantage (Quarters GBX)== 
**Advantage 2 is the Aesthetic of Law**
**Status quo legal procedures embody negative nationalism towards people with disabilities**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Campbell 2009</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Fiona Kumari , Senior Lecturer in Disability Studies at the School of Human Services & Social Work Griffith University and Adjunct Professor in Disability Studies, Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, "States of Exceptionality: Provisional Disability, its Mitigation, and Citizenship", http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/109813/20_Marshall_Vol3_Ch19_p273-p284.pdf)</span>

//Law has traditionally had an ambivalent attitude toward disabled people//<span style="font-size: 11px;">, restricting itself to being </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">AND</span>
**__towards a universalized codiﬁcation of disability (norms) is on the increase.__**

**US federal law reproduces an aesthetic of exclusion through “disease centric discourse”—that is the pre-requisite to state sponsored genocide**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Roberts 2007</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, [[https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1]] )</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Just as </span><span class="TitleChar">disease-centric discourse creates these attitudes, imageries and actions rooted in </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">itself within, which mandated oppression in the spirit of viral hatred. </span>

**Laws are just descriptions. Aesthetic choices within law that determine and dominate its interpretations and outcomes**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Schlag 2002</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Pierre, Garrett Abelkop in disguise, and Byron White Professor of Law, University of Colorado School of Law, “Commentary: The Aesthetics of American Law” 115 Harv. L. Rev. 1047]</span>

//Law is an aesthetic enterprise//<span style="font-size: 11px;">. </span><span class="TitleChar">Before theethical dreams and political ambitions of law </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">is an attempt to reveal the aesthetics within which American law is cast</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. </span>


**The status quo of transportation policy is a grid aesthetic – it superimposes lines over the world to try to bring it order and simplicity**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Schlag 2002</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Pierre, Garrett Abelkop in disguise, and Byron White Professor of Law, University of Colorado School of Law, “Commentary: The Aesthetics of American Law” 115 Harv. L. Rev. 1047 ]</span>

<span class="TitleChar">In the grid aesthetic, law is framed as a field, a territory, </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">, and every place is occupied by a distinct and bounded legal concept.</span>

**This aesthetic reduces the world to a geometric routine**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Schlag 2002</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Pierre, Garrett Abelkop in disguise, and Byron White Professor of Law, University of Colorado School of Law, “Commentary: The Aesthetics of American Law” 115 Harv. L. Rev. 1047]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Understandably, the recurrent contact with societal untidiness elicits in legal professionals a desire for </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">order of law in terms of its own criteria</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. [FN44]</span>


**That means we have a choice: Orient ourselves towards individual, creative release, or engage in unending wars that risk our very survival.**
<span style="font-size: 19px;">Read 55</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">[Herbert, Education through Art: A Revolutionary Policy Source: Art Education, Vol. 8, No. 7 (Nov., 1955)]</span>

<span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 15px;">We might begin</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">, perhaps, </span><span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 15px;">by establishing a necessary connection between the present kind </span>**</span>
<span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 15px;">AND</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">, the same serenity, the same con-dition of psychic integration.</span>


**The role of the ballot is to EVALUATE THE AESTHETIC OUTCOMES OF LAW FIRST. The plan, is not just a substantive commitment with effects in the real world—AND NEITHER IS THE LAW. The law of the status quo asserts a particular aesthetic, we assert a different one**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Schlag 2002</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Pierre, Garrett Abelkop in disguise, and Byron White Professor of Law, University of Colorado School of Law, “Commentary: The Aesthetics of American Law” 115 Harv. L. Rev. 1047 ]</span>

<span class="TitleChar">The various aesthetics</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, as suggested, </span><span class="TitleChar">are more or less conducive to various political </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">or ethical view that is not at all conducive to one’s own aesthetics.</span>


**Calculation of material outcomes creates safe, middle of the road solutions and cannot allow for creativity**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Schlag 2002</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Pierre, Garrett Abelkop in disguise, and Byron White Professor of Law, University of Colorado School of Law, “Commentary: The Aesthetics of American Law” 115 Harv. L. Rev. 1047 ]</span>

<span class="TitleChar">The energy aesthetic leaves the stasis of the grid behind</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. Instead, energy becomes </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[FN131] </span><span class="TitleChar">Yesterday’s policy analysis is today’s formula and tomorrow’s mindless incantation.</span>

==Justice Advantage (Finals Umich)== 

**Advantage __ - Justice**
**Current conceptions of disability and public policy ensure the production of a socially unjust order—focus on efficiency and utility ensure that people with disability remain incapable of participating in society.**
**Bickenbach 2009** (Jerome E. Professor of Philosophy and Law at Queen's University, Canada, and consultant for the World Health Organisation. “Disability, non-talent and distributive justice” in Arguing about Disability, eds. Kristjana Kristiansen, Simo Vehmas and Tom Shakespeare)

Thus, as Wasserman has remarked (1996, 1998), impairments are relevant to AND whether the environment is the primary source. It depends on the facts.

**Justice requires we foster the provision of basic freedoms to all in society; removing the social impediments are a central question in discussing transportation policy.**
**Hull 2009** (Richard, Lecturer in Philosophy and Director of the Centre for Bioethical Research and Analysis at the National University of Ireland, Galway “Disability and freedom” in Arguing about Disability, eds. Kristjana Kristiansen, Simo Vehmas and Tom Shakespeare)

This chapter presents disability as an issue of human freedom. It discusses the relation AND a negative sense. That claim is evasive and renders freedom rather mysterious.

**Mobility is central to a spatial conception of justice that allows for full participation of all people, including people with disabilities, in social and political life.**
**Pineda 2008** (Victor, Ph.d at UCLA, expert in disability policy, planning and regional development, taught courses on Policy Evaluation, Community Development, and International Disability Rights, advised international agencies such as the World Bank and United Nations, as well as state and federal governments, in the development and implementation of programs and policies that include people with disabilities, joined the Dubai School of Government as a Visiting Fellow to study the implementation of the UAE Disability Act of 2006, worked as an associate with the U.S. Treasury, obtained degrees in Political Economy, Business Administration, and a Master’s in City and Regional Planning, awarded the Fulbright-Hays and Sheikh Qassemi Fellow at the Dubai School of Government, (Victor Santiago Pineda, “Enabling Justice: Spatializing Disability in the Built Environment” [[http://berkeley.academia.edu/VictorSantiagoPineda/Papers/251651/Enabling_Justice_Spatializing_Disability_In_the_Built_Environment]])

My aim is to elaborate a just theory of disability that takes into consideration the AND can be revisited, as well as extended, with this in mind.

**The purpose of debate is deliberation over questions of justice. Any attempts to frame debate away from questions of justice and access to deliberative spaces are politically disempowering and ensure a politics of futile confrontation as opposed to continual self-revisioning.**
**Gooding-Williams 1998** (Bob professor of political science, University of Chicago, “RACE, MULTICULTURALISM, AND DEMOCRACY” Constellations)

In the fourth part of this paper I defend a version of multiculturalism that avoids AND a form of multicultural education that is, specifically, race-conscious.

**Independently, Social justice should be the debate’s top priority – it’s an obligation.**
**Nieutvenhuis 2010** Prof Jan Nieutvenhuis, Dept of Education Management and Policy Studies, Faculty of Education, University of Pretoria, Acta Academica 2011: 43(1) – available at: http://up-za.academia.edu/JanNieuwenhuis/Papers/882363/Social_justice_in_education_today

Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled AND to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.
==Aesthetic Lack Advantage== 

**Advantage __ - The Aesthetic Lack**
**Aesthetic judgments order and give meaning to our understanding of class, race, and sex – the status quo has alienated the aesthetic of the disabled which denies them agency**
**Siebers 10** (Disability Aesthetics” Tom Siebers, Tobin, Prof of Literary and Cultural Criticism at the U of Michigan, 2010)

Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another. It is a form AND Disability represents at this moment in time the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority

**Aesthetic agency should be debate’s top priority**
**Nieutvenhuis 10** Prof Jan Nieutvenhuis, Dept of Education Management and Policy Studies, Faculty of Education, University of Pretoria, Acta Academica 2011: 43(1) – available at: http://up-za.academia.edu/JanNieuwenhuis/Papers/882363/Social_justice_in_education_today

Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled AND to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.

**Those aesthetics permeate our discussions of transportation infrastructure. The aff is a FORCED, VIOLENT confrontation with disability. That shapes our understanding of aesthetic and form**
**Siebers 10** (Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 58-63)

These two episodes may seem worlds apart, their resemblance superficial. The first turns AND kids that do weird things. (Cited by Fine and Asch 48)

**The aesthetic lack motivates eugenics from the fear of incompetance**
**Wilson, 2006** (Daniel J., Cultural Locations of Disability, October 8)

In two chapters on the eugenics movement, Snyder and Mitchell ‘analyze eugenics is AND medicine have considered disability as abnormal and in need of repair or elimination.

**This projection is the root cause of genocidal violence**
**Elden 02**, politics at University of Warwick, (Stuart Boundary 2 29.2)

The reverse side is the power to allow death. State racism is a recoding AND 228–30). As Foucault puts it in La volonté de savoir :

==**Universalism Advantage (Short)**== 
**Advantage __ - The Universal**

**Seemingly innocuous investment decision in transportation infrastructure has relegated people with disabilities to the periphery**
**AAPD 2012** (The American Association of People with Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)

Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity AND on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.

**When mobility is viewed as a universal characteristic individual problems become de-characterized and the focus degenerates to anesthetization and exclusion of bodies – that’s how status quo transportation planning functions – it is entrenched in a universal model of ablism**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Barnes et al (1999, page 121), for instance, note that UK AND of mobility as ``a messy, unpredictable, diverse and changeable reality''.

**Mobility should not focus on the body’s incompetence but rather shift to lines of flight away from the static hegemonic conception of liberal identity that recognizes difference and targets individual needs of mobility.**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly circumscribed by sociocultural attitudes, practices, and AND are demanding, not to have their needs defined and met by others''.

**The function of universalism is always already based on liberal notions of impairment – that does ontic violence to the disabled body which is a prior question to evaluating consequences**
**Hughes 07** (Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University Bill Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis)

In summary, the universalistic approach to ontology in disability studies that I have sketched AND p. 164) that regularly misrepresent and sometimes destroy disabled peoples lives.

**The plan breaks down the societal barriers that oppose immobility and repair ontic negativism**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Mobility and movement are core to people's identities, life experiences, and opportunities.AND for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.

==**Universalism** Advantage (Long)== 

**Advantage __ - The Universal**

**Seemingly innocuous investment decision in transportation infrastructure has relegated people with disabilities to the periphery**
**AAPD 2012** (The American Association of People with Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)

Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity AND on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.

**When mobility is viewed as a universal characteristic individual problems become de-characterized and the focus degenerates to anesthetization and exclusion of bodies – that’s how status quo transportation planning functions – it is entrenched in a universal model of ablism**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Barnes et al (1999, page 121), for instance, note that UK AND of mobility as ``a messy, unpredictable, diverse and changeable reality''.

**Mobility should not focus on the body’s incompetence but rather shift to lines of flight away from the static hegemonic conception of liberal identity that recognizes difference and targets individual needs of mobility.**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly circumscribed by sociocultural attitudes, practices, and AND are demanding, not to have their needs defined and met by others''.

**The function of universalism is always already based on liberal notions of impairment – that does ontic violence to the disabled body which is a prior question to evaluating consequences**
**Hughes 07** (Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University Bill Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis)

In summary, the universalistic approach to ontology in disability studies that I have sketched AND p. 164) that regularly misrepresent and sometimes destroy disabled peoples lives.

**The plan breaks down the societal barriers that oppose immobility and repair ontic negativism**
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 [[http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf]])

Mobility and movement are core to people's identities, life experiences, and opportunities.AND for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.

**Infrastructure is NECESSARY to change design**
**Imrie 96** (Rob, Professor in Human Geography, Department of Geography, Royal Holloway University of London Rob, 1996 “ Inclusive design, disability and the built environment” http://www.etn-presco.net/workshop/presentations/R_Imrie.pdf)

While the barriers to disabled people's inclusion in the built environment are many and varied AND dropped kerbs and tactile surfaces on completion of regular repair or service work.

**That puts the fear of death onto the body of the disabled – that results in the invalidation and corruption of identity**
**Hughes 07** (Bill Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University “Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society” 22.7)

Indeed, the invulnerable self is a fantasy and form of self‐deception associated AND fantasy of absolute able bodiedness’ (Thomson, 1997, p. 45).

**The impact to that is authentic existence – impossible with our imposition of fear.**
**Park 06** (James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”)

Our fundamental absurdity is disclosed when the mad rush called “life” stops, AND , and security, and floating serenely on a surprising hope and joy.

==**Plan**== 

**The United States federal government should provide substantial transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.**

==**Solvency**== 

**Advantage 3 is “What Really Matters?”**
**Traditional risk assessment strips us of our relations to others and our dignity—this obscures how structural violence contributes to large-scale destruction**
**O’Brien 2k** (PhD, environmental scientist and activist, Mary, © 2000, MIT Press, “Making Better Environmental Decisions: An Alternative to Risk Assessment”, Gigapedia, p. xvii-xviii,)

This book is based on the understanding that it is not acceptable for people to AND feeling, and a sense of relationship to others to stop socioenvironmental madness.

**Federal action is key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure**
**Fine & Hall 10** Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich, Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010 http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf)

Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, health, education AND obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.

**Apocalypticism creates inevitable cycles of enemy creation and kills value**
**Der Derian 98** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)

No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch, nor commands the disciplinary AND on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.

**Security is a tool the biopolitical empire uses to cast disability to the periphery – re-creates problems**
**McRuer, 2010** (Robert, Professor of English and Deputy Chair of the Department of English at George Washington University, "Disability Nationalism in Crip Times")

Murderball, however, is just one prominent sign—whether marking at this point AND thought and action, for solidarity and coalition. [End Page 176]

**Great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deudney and Ikenberry 09</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND **Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University [Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” //Foreign Affairs//)**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">international system is far more primed for peace</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Martin 84</span>, physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA (Brian, May 16th, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html]])**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">By the 1950s, a large number of </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">people had come to believe that the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">political consequences, for which the peace movement is totally unprepared.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html#n6#n6|[6]]]</span>

=2AC Blocks= 
==Framework== 
===2AC=== 

**This re-framing connects debate pedagogy to political struggles against ablism—the ballot serves to legitimize certain knowledge, sanction certain values, and construct particular forms of agency.**
**Giroux 10/16** (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair Professorship in the Department of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 2012, “Can Democratic Education Survive in a Neoliberal Society?,” truthout, October 16th, [[http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/12126-can-democratic-education-survive-in-a-neoliberal-society]])

Schools should be viewed as crucial to any viable notion of democracy, while the AND counts as knowledge, sanctions particular values and constructs particular forms of agency.
==Case Stuff== 
===Util 2AC=== 

**Human agency is important – they can’t “trade” their K impact for it.**
**Malik ‘2** Kenan Malik is a writer and senior visiting fellow at the Department of Political, International, and Policy Studies at the University of Surrey. This paper was presented to the Engelsberg seminar on 'Consciousness, Genetics and Society', Avesta, Sweden, 14 - 16 June 2002 – http://www.kenanmalik.com/papers/engelsberg_nature.html

For this and many other reasons, many find implausible the idea that human agency AND humans as subjective beings, and compelled to view us simply as objects.

**Utilitarianism reduces individuals to nothing, making them expendable**
**Schroeder 86** Christopher H., Professor of Law, Duke University; Visiting Professor of Law, UCLA 1985-86, , Columbia Law Review, Rights Against Risks, 86 Colum. L. Rev. 495

The anxiety to preserve some fundamental place for the individual that cannot be overrun by AND contributes to increasing total utility. Otherwise, the individual can be discarded.

**Consequences can matter, we just think that somethings come first. Prefer our disjunctive scenarios to their short-term conjunctive scenarios.**
**Yudkowsky 06** (Eliezer, 8/31/. Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence Palo Alto, CA. “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf.)

The conjunction fallacy similarly applies to futurological forecasts. Two independent sets of professional analysts AND a futurist, disjunctions make for an awkward and unpoetic-sounding prophecy.

**Assumes life is irreversible – not true**
**Lanza 10** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist?: Life Is Forever, Says Theory" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-life-is_b_410306.html)

In the cartoon, Bugs Bunny swallows nitroglycerine and gunpowder, and springs back to ANDAll songs exist simultaneously, although we only experience them piece by piece.

=Topicality= 
===2AC T - Maintenance=== 

**Counter interpretation – infrastructure includes renewals and repairs**
**EEA 12** - European Environmental Agency ("Transportation Infrastructure Investments" European Environment Agency, February 17, 2012 http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/indicators/infrastructure-investments)

Investment expenditure on infrastructure covers expenditure on new construction and extension of existing infrastructure, including reconstruction, renewal and major repairs of infrastructure.

**AND – Investment Is distinct – it means mobility and access**
**CS 2002**- Cambridge Systematics (Community and Social Benefits of Transportation Investment, NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment, http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_3.pdf January 2002)

Investments in our nation’s transportation infrastructure can yield important community and social benefits. They AND development by making it more attractive for businesses and residents to relocate there.

=Disadvantages= 
===Politics=== 

**Nothings going to pass**
**Sherman & Palmer 7/24** 2012, (Jake and Anna, : Staff Writers for POLITICO, “Hill braces for lame-duck frenzy,” [[@http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0712/78934.html]])

But House leaders are warning that they can’t do everything that’s punted to a lame AND rebuffing attempts to move a farm bill and to reform the Postal Service.

**Sequestration, tax cuts, and transportation bill thump the DA**
**Wasson 9/6**/12 (Eric, The Hill, “GOP demands Obama meet Friday deadline for ‘fiscal cliff’ report”, [[@http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/budget/248009-gop-demands-white-house-meet-fiscal-cliff-report-deadline]])

Congressional Republicans are demanding that President Obama meet the Friday deadline for laying out how AND the election — would jeopardize our national security,” the blog post states.

**Political capital isn’t real and their approach breed violence and winners win**
**Ruby-Sachs 2008** Emma Ruby-SachsLawyer Posted: November 24, 2008, J.D. from the University of Toronto and practices civil litigation with Sutts Strosberg LLP, Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis, [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html]]

The classic approach to politics is to rank priorities and measure the finite bowl of AND polarizes social conservatives and social liberals in a time when consensus is essential.

**The political process is rigged to exclude the disabled – to make your decision based upon political capital and bargaining is to render your decision complicit in the systematic exclusion of the disabled – the impact is our case**
**Orentlicher 1996**- Professor of Law at Indiana University,( David 31 Harv. C.R.-C.L.L. Rev. 49, Winter)

A more expansive interpretation of the ADA and Rehabilitation Act would better realize the purposes AND policies to ameliorate the deleterious effects of socio-political forces on disability.

**The plan is supported from both sides of the isle**
**Heasley 2012** - Founder and Writer for DisabilityScoop.com – a leading news source for disability issues,( Shaun “Disability Rights Treaty Gains Support”, May 29,[[@http://www.disabilityscoop.com/2012/05/29/disability-treaty-support/15735/]])

In a rare show of bipartisan support, a group of senators said they want AND treaty and 112 have ratified it, according to the U.N.
===Elections Disad=== 

**Romney will win – he’s overcame all the past obstacles**
**Goldman & Rozell, 9/19**/12 - Paul Goldman is former chairman of Virginia’s Democratic Party. Mark Rozell is professor of public policy at George Mason University, ‘Don’t be fooled. Romney has a fighting chance’, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81400_Page2.html#ixzz270zb8moe

At this point, Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney should be Dead Candidate Walking. AND and New Hampshire, which has 4, it will be a tie.

**Politics to anticipate the reaction of citizens objectifies them and allows them to be tuned by the government**
**Oenen 06** Gijs van Oenen is senior lecturer in practical philosophy at the Department of Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Ph.D. from the University of Amsterdam in 1994. Next to the Erasmus University, he has been affiliated with the University of Amsterdam, Webster University Leiden, and the Rotterdam Academy of Architecture and Urban Design. A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political LIfe Gijs Van Oenen. Theory & Event. Baltimore: 2006. Vol. 9, Iss. 2;1 pgs 40.

The second mode, the one that follows on the classical model, may be AND history, a 'humane' organisation of labor and of social life in general.

**The political process is rigged to exclude the disabled – to make your decision based upon political capital and bargaining is to render your decision complicit in the systematic exclusion of the disabled – the impact is our case**
**Orentlicher 96**- Professor of Law at Indiana University,( David 31 Harv. C.R.-C.L.L. Rev. 49, Winter)

A more expansive interpretation of the ADA and Rehabilitation Act would better realize the purposes AND policies to ameliorate the deleterious effects of socio-political forces on disability.

**Their disad is non-unique – Obama has already publicized his support for the disabled**
**Diament, 2012** (Michelle, Co-founder of DisabilityScoop.com – a leading news source for disability issues, “Obama to Disability Advocates: ‘I’ve Got Your Back”, February 10, http://www.disabilityscoop.com/2012/02/10/obama-to-disability-advocates/14958/)

Some 150 disability advocates from across the country headed to the White House Friday for AND top officials at the Justice Department and the Medicaid program, among others.

**Disability rights are popular with the public**
**Percy, 2001** (Stephen, Ph.D., Indiana University A.B., Hamilton College, Political Science Professor at the University of Milwaukee, “Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation”, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true)

A final explanation of state acquiescence to national government power in the context of the AND to be defined and enforced within the overall federal system of the US.

===Coercion=== 

**Progressive policies are vital to reduce widespread suffering and inequality—competing D-Rule.**
**West 99** (Robin West, Professor of Law at the Georgetown University Law Center, holds a J.D. from the University of Maryland Law School and a J.S.M. from Stanford Law School, 1999, “Is American Progressive Constitutionalism Dead?: I. Conceptual And Critical Themes In Normative Progressive Constitutionalism: Is Progressive Constitutionalism Possible?,” Widener Law Symposium (4 Wid. L. Symp. J. 1), Spring, L/N)

Progressivism is in part a particular moral and political response to the sadness of lesser AND although often times may not) require the coercive power of the state.

**Their radical libertarian narrative about taxation romanticizes the era of slavery and tanks democracy.**
**Einhorn 06** (Robin Einhorn, Professor of History at the University of California-Berkeley, 2006, “Introduction,” American Taxation, American Slavery, Published by the University of Chicago Press, ISBN 0226194876, p. 3)

There is a story we already know about taxation in American history. In this AND to provide certain services, voting for candidates who promised to deliver them.

===Federalism=== 

**No link – plan doesn’t hurt federalism**
**Prince 10**- Faculty of Human and Social Development at the University of Victoria, (Michael, “What About a Disability Rights Act for Canada?: Practices and Lessons from America, Australia, and the United Kingdom”, Canadian Public Policy, Vol. 36 No. 2, June, Project Muse)

One feature of the ADA particularly interesting to a Canadian audience, given our system AND), a factor that eventually prompted Congress to clarify and amend the legislation.

**Federalism low – Arizona immigration policy**
**McDaniel 6/28**/12 (Chris McDaniel, state senator, “McDaniel – Immigration ruling: federalism eroded by federal judiciary,” Y’all Politics, 6/28/12, http://yallpolitics.com/index.php/yp/post/32584/ /mr)

During the past ten years, over a third of the nation’s illegal border crossings AND the mercy of the central government’s refusal to enforce the nation’s immigration laws.

===ABL Tradeoff=== 

**Transportation funding increasing now**
**Maritime Executive 7/30** - Offers the maritime industry the most up to date news, opinions and analysis (7/30/12, “U.S. Transportation Secretary LaHood Launches Historic Expansion of Infrastructure Finance Fund”, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/u-s-transportation-secretary-lahood-launches-historic-expansion-of-infrastructure-finance-fund)

U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood today announced the availability of up to AND an immediate boost to jobs while laying a foundation for continued economic growth.

**Even if they win the rationality debate – deterrence still fails due to miscalc**
**Krieger 2k (**David. President of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. “The Irrationality of Deterrence: A Modern Zen Koan” www.wagingpeace,org, 2000)

The concept of deterrence, which underlies the nuclear weapons policies of the United States AND get our information straight, and we seldom have all of the facts.

**K is a prerequisite to your deterrence claims—deterrence constructs its own problems, it’s impossible to verify**
**Chernus 86** - Professor of Religious Studies at UC Boulder, Ira, Dr. Strangegod, p?

Psychologists tell us that preventative strategies such as MAD “provide no way of determining AND is a war fought with and because of largely symbolic images and perceptions.

**Deterrence strategies make us invincible – creates a prerequisite to nuclear war**
**Chernus 91** - , Professor of Religious Studies at UC Boulder, Ira, Nuclear Madness: on Religion and Psychology in the Nuclear Age, p19-20

The world of mutual deterrence is a perfect image of a society of schizoids. AND each new pin in the map may represent several million dead human beings.

=Counterplans= 
===Interpasivity=== 

**Here’s a specific interpassivity DA – the CP is pity to PWDs what kills value**
**Roberts 2007** (Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1 )

“Pity,” pragmatically resulting in increased living standards for people with disabilities may on ANDif these individuals face physical barriers in achieving power (Campbell, 2005)

==="accessability" Word PIC=== 

**Permutation do both: competition doesn’t matter. Voting aff to combine impossible actions without question deconstructs status quo injustice**
**Menke 05** (Cristoph Menke, Professor of Philosophy and Co-Director of the Centre for Human Rights at Potsdam University, 2005, 27 Cardozo L. Rev. 595)

If we understand philosophy, in the manner suggested, not just by its object <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND not a surmounted or sublated (aufgehoben) moment in the decision." n24</span>

**Reappropriation DA – the meaning of oppressive words is the ultimate confrontation to oppressive language**
**Butler 04** (Judith, “Undoing Gender,” Routledge)

In the same way that the terms of an exclusionary modernity have been appropriated for <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND politics that cannot be fully anticipated, a politics of hope and anxiety.</span>

**Exorcism DA – dirty words only serves as a mask for aggressive humiliation; it is not the words which wound, but how we make them mean**
**Zizek 1999** [Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies(Ljubljana), The Ticklish Subject, p.253-4]

Take politically correct probing into hate speech and sexual harassment: the trap into which <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND temptation finds sexual pleasure in this very act of inflicting wounds on himself.</span>

**Agency DA – People don’t just buy into government words Audiences are smart and reach their own conclusions. Any other interp kills agency**
**Kraus ‘89** (et al – Sidney Kraus is a professor in the Department of Communication at Cleveland State University and Dennis Giles is also in the Department of Communication at Cleveland State University. Reviewed work(s): <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Constructing the Political Spectacle by Murray Edelman Source: Political Psychology, Vol. 10, No. 3 (Sep., 1989), pp. 517-525 Published by: International Society of Political Psychology Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3791366]])</span>

Edelman assumes (like the early Frankfurt School) that viewers/audi- tors <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND from the "dominant" readings preferred by the political and media institutions.</span>

**Human agency is important – they can’t “trade” their K impact for it.**
**Malik ‘2** <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Kenan Malik is a writer and senior visiting fellow at the Department of Political, International, and Policy Studies at the University of Surrey. This paper was presented to the Engelsberg seminar on 'Consciousness, Genetics and Society', Avesta, Sweden, 14 - 16 June 2002 – http://www.kenanmalik.com/papers/engelsberg_nature.html</span>

For this and many other reasons, many find implausible the idea that human agency <span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND humans as subjective beings, and compelled to view us simply as objects.</span>
===PPPs CP=== 
**WHENEVER THE FED GOVERNEMNT IS ASKED TO DO SOMETHING WE ALWAYS SHED REPSONSIBLITY hifting responsibility is bad – the USFG made amtrack and paratransit inaccesable – thay have to take responsibility – the impact is the pity DA – also The relegation of responsibility causes mass violence**
Hughes, 2002 (Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)

Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to embrace the abnormally normal. It makes
AND
ferocity of an ultimate recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions.’

**No investment potential – too risky for markets**
Rodrigue 09 (Jean-Paul, Ph.D. in Transport Geography, worked in the Department of Economics & Geography at Hofstra University and is currently in the Department of Global Studies and Geography, “The Financing of Transportation Infrastructure,” [[http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch7en/appl7en/ch7a2en.html]])

4. Limitations of Private Capital Even if public and private actors have established institutional
AND
to take advantage of the discount to capture valuable and revenue generating assets.

**PPPs create moral hazard yall – flips case**
EPEC 11 (EPEC -- The European PPP Expertise Centre (EPEC) is a joint initiative involving the European Investment Bank (EIB), State Guarantees in PPPs A Guide to Better Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Management, May 2011, http://www.eib.org/epec/resources/epec-state-guarantees-in-ppps-public.pdf )

SGs involve the Government bearing some or all of the risks associated with a PPP
AND
find it more difficult to attract private sector interest and/or financing.

**Results in Liabilities – companies don’t get involved**
EPEC 11 (EPEC -- The European PPP Expertise Centre (EPEC) is a joint initiative involving the European Investment Bank (EIB), State Guarantees in PPPs A Guide to Better Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Management, May 2011, http://www.eib.org/epec/resources/epec-state-guarantees-in-ppps-public.pdf )

Implicit liabilities may arise when the market expects the Government not to allow certain projects
AND
signal that Government would support all PPP projects should they run into difficulties.


**Flyjberg is wrong – major methodological flaws**
Osland and Strand, 10 - Institute of Transport Economics, Norway (Oddgeir and Arvid, “ the Politics and Institutions of Project Approval - a Critical-Constructive Comment on the theory of Strategic Misrepresentation”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, March, [[http://www.ejtir.tbm.tudelft.nl/issues/2010_01/pdf/2010_01_06.pdf]])//DH

the paragraph above includes several claims that Flyvbjerg does not have the necessary empirical data
AND
should be sufficient support for the thesis that misrepresentation is the major explanation.

**Data cooking is hype and based on US studies that are too old**
Levy, 11 – ma thematician who writes about urbanism and mass transit (Alon, “Cost Overruns: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Hate Bent Flyvbjerg,” 8/15, Pedestrian Observations (blog), [[http://pedestrianobservations.wordpress.com/2011/08/15/cost-overruns-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-hate-bent-flyvbjerg/)/DH|http://pedestrianobservations.wordpress.com/2011/08/15/cost-overruns-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-hate-bent-flyvbjerg/)]]

Let me preface this post by saying I have nothing against Bent Flyvbjerg or his
AND
this paper is obscure, whereas his work on cost overruns is famous.
===States=== 

**Here’s a specific interpassivity DA – the CP is pity to PWDs what kills value**
**Roberts 2007** (Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, [[https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1]] )

“Pity,” pragmatically resulting in increased living standards for people with disabilities may on AND if these individuals face physical barriers in achieving power (Campbell, 2005)

**Amtrak sucks for disabilities—USFG is key**
**The Arc 12** (The Arc is the largest national community-based organization advocating for and serving people with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their families, Transportation Issues for People with Disabilities” [[http://www.thearc.org/page.aspx?pid=2730]])

Amtrak has increased its ridership by 32 percent between 2002 and 2008. Within that AND 6 billion, but have only been allocated $144 million from Congress.

**Paratransit has a laundry list of problems and shortcomings – Fed jurisdiction**
**Mattson, Hough, and Abeson 10** (Jeremy, Jill, Alan, Faculty at North Dakota State University, “Assessing Existing and Needed Community Transportation for People with Disabilities in North Dakota”, Small Urban & Rural Transit Center, Upper Great Plains Transportation Institute, North Dakota State University, November)

Many people with disabilities may be dependent on paratransit and face problems specific to that AND with long lead times for scheduling paratransit services and unreliability of those services.

**WHENEVER THE FED GOVERNMENT IS ASKED TO DO SOMETHING WE ALWAYS SHED REPSONSIBLITY hifting responsibility is bad – the USFG made amtrack and paratransit inaccesable – thay have to take responsibility – the impact is the pity DA – also The relegation of responsibility causes mass violence**
**Hughes, 2002** (Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)

Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to embrace the abnormally normal. It makes AND ferocity of an ultimate recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions.’

**State funding and implementation fails -- not enforcable**
**Rosenbloom 07** (Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)

Local Governments and the Pedestrian Environment Most of the studies and surveys reported on in AND such as audible pedestrian signals at stoplights and detectable warnings at curb ramps.

**Congressional law is the problem yall**
**Drimmer, 93** – Editor, UCLA Law Review. J.D., UCLA (Jonathan, “CRIPPLES, OVERCOMERS, AND CIVIL RIGHTS: TRACING THE EVOLUTION OF FEDERAL LEGISLATION AND SOCIAL POLICY FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES” 40 UCLA L. Rev. 1341, June, lexis

Both the medical and social pathology interpretations (and a majority of federal legislation) AND confront, day after day, the denial of your individual humanity." n39

**States can’t fund the plan**
**Pollack 11** - Economic Policy Institute; Office of Management and Budget and the George Washington Institute of Public Policy; staff member for President Obama’s National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform; M.P.P. The George Washington University (Ethan, “Two years into austerity and counting…”, October 19, http://www.epi.org/blog/years-austerity-counting/)

It’s popular to criticize Keynesian economics by alleging that the Recovery Act was an experiment AND of this economic hole, we first need to stop digging down further.

=Kritiks= 

===Ethics K (CPS)=== 
====2AC==== 
**Practical analysis of government policy is a prerequisite to positive change**
McClean 01 (David, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope” [[http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm|www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]])

Leftist American culture critics might put their considerable talents to better use if they bury
AND
critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."

**The aff is is establishment of enmity – link turns the K**
Chandler 08 (David, David Chandler is Professor of International Relations at the University of Westminster in Centre for the Study of Democracy, “The Revival of Carl Schmitt in International Relations: The Last Refuge of Critical Theorists?”, [[http://www.davidchandler.org/pdf/journal_articles/Millennium%20-%20Schmitt%20published.pdf]], )

Without these mediations, Schmitt is read as arguing against universalism per se, as
AND
. 42 Of course, at some future point conflict might be eliminated:

**Perm do the plan without self-referentiality. The physical construction of urban spaces reproduce otherization – the aff if CONFRONTATION with reality of instrumentalization they criticize – this is a fundamental link turn**
Imrie 01 (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

These ideas about identity and place underpin the emergence of a variant of urban studies
AND
socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference.


**Institutionality is a myth – individual define their relationship to power – any believe otherwise forces the alt to fail.**
Pickett 5 [Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 10-11]

Axel Honneth, among others, points out that Foucault's conception of power is a
AND
outcome of the correlation of forces, relations, and practices that constitute him


**The alt doesn’t spillover**
Yar, lecturer, School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research – University of Kent, 2K
(Majid, Arendt's Heideggerianism: Contours of a `Postmetaphysical' Political Theory?, Cultural Values, Volume 4, Issue 1)

Similarly, we must consider the consequences that this 'ontological substitution' for the essence of
AND
, divesting politics of any other practical and normative ends in the process.

**The K is overconcerned with the purity of our motivation plan does things**
Ammon-Wexler 2004 (Jill, Brain Researcher and Personal Excellence Mentor, “The ZEN of Taking Action”, [[http://www.trainersdirect.com/resources/articles/Wexler/ZenofAction.htm]], Hemanth)

You've probably had the experience at one time or another of feeling "stuck"
AND
and break free of the painful, mind-numbing cement of indecision!
===Global / Local=== 
====2AC==== 

**We must acknowledge that global institutions are necessary to generate change – one always thinks and acts both globally and locally**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Professor of Communications at the University of Illinois, We Gotta Get Out of This Place, p. 391-393)

The Left needs institutions which can operate within the systems of governance, understanding that AND and oppositional agency. It strives to organize minorities into a new majority.

**Global identifications don’t tradeoff with local identifications**
**Nussbaum, 1994** (Martha, Professor of Law and Ethics at University of Chicago Law School, “Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism”, The Boston Review, www.soci.niu.edu/~phildept/Kapitan/nussbaum1.html)

The Stoics stress that to be a citizen of the world one does not need AND and give the circle that defines our humanity a special attention and respect.

**Insisting on local action first justifies inaction in the face of atrocities and devalues the lives of others**
**Nussbaum, 1996** (Martha, Professor of Law and Ethics at University of Chicago Law School, “Double Moral Standards?” Boston Review, October November, http://www.bostonreview.net/BR21.5/Nussbaum.html)

The second thesis is surely false. (I do not think Tamir means to AND to higher moral ground seems the very height of moral obtuseness and parochialism.

**Abandoning global political resistance would empower the conservative right, pitting local activists in a race to the bottom. This reactionary politics would only lead to the catastrophic destabilization of our world, not transform it.**
**Brecher et al, 2000** (Jeremy, Historian, Activist, and Analyst for Foreign Policy in Focus, Tim Costello, Brendan Smith, Globalization from Below, p. 42-43)

The apparent opposition among strengthening local, national, and global institutions is based on AND means for regulating demand, global depression is more than likely to follow.

**Global thinking promotes local action and is necessary to prevent violence**
**Sachs, 1992** (Wolfgang, Green Movement Activist and co-ed. Development guest Prof Science at Penn State, Development Dictionary, p. 109-113)
But recognizing the pitfalls of global eco-managernent does not solve the dilemma which AND yet at the same time knows about the relativity of all places.

====1AR==== 

**I don’t even have to defend fiat now**
**Roberts 2007** (Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, [[https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1]])

Although individual action which permutes the rejection of disease-centric discourse with a call AND important element of advocacy for many groups struggling for state recognition of identity.

**Perm do the both. There’s no forced choice, we can endorse policy advocacy and fiat while acknowledging that violence is an issue of agency.**
**Kappeler 95** Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University [Susanne The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.8]

Moreover, personal behavior is no alternative to ‘political action’; there is no AND to be moved into the centre of our politics and our critique.

===Virillio=== 
====2AC==== 

**Virillio’s basic assumption is flawed. Speed of tech doesn’t ruin the political—Opposite is true**
**Grove ‘8** Jairus Victor Grove is a Ph.D. candidate at Johns Hopkins University in International Relations and Political Theory. His research focuses on the new materialities of politics and warfare. He studies the effects of new forms of warfare on soldiers and civilian populations in urban settings. Chapter 1: A Schmittian Century?: From Nuclear Leviathan to Nuclear-Sovereign-Assemblage – March 17, 2008 – http://becomingwar.blogspot.com/2008/03/chapter-1-schmittian-century-from.html

Initially nuclear weapons seemed to solidify even complete the decisionistic model of sovereignty once and AND many levels the Nuclear-sovereign-assemblage can be engaged or reterritorialized.

**Left melancholy turn – their value-to-life and epistemology claims are wrong and trapped in mourning. They’re also turned by anti-politics.**
**McAllister ‘8** Kirsten Emiko McAllister teaches in the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University, Canadian Journal of Communication, Vol 33 (2008) p. 567-589

But I am less concerned with what is obviously Virilio’s ideal human subject than with AND escapes and transmutes the relentless colonization of life that he so vividly paints.

**Avoiding anti-politics is key to check the worst violence**
**Small ‘6** (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)

What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we equip AND at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.

**Speed K doesn’t apply to transportation – overstretches a military thesis.**
**Kellner ‘99** (Douglas, George F. Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education, UCLA – “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections," Theory, Culture and Society, Vol. 16(5-6), 1999: 103-125, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)

In _Speed and Politics_ (1986 [1977]), Virilio undertakes his first AND momentous and dramatic transformation of every aspect of our social and everyday life.

**Virilio Speed K wrong – won’t improve research, excess technophobia, and no political alt.**
**Stevenson ‘2** Nick Stevenson is a Lecturer in the Department of Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield, Understanding Media Cultures: Social Theory and Mass Communication – page 206

Virilio’s main contribution to contemporary debates in respect of the media of mass communication has AND brief as they have been approached in more detail elsewhere in the volume.

**Speed K’s too sweeping and ignores that people can check the impact.**
**Adria ‘8** (Marco Adria – Director of the Graduate Program in Communications and Technology University of Alberta – The Journal of Community Informatics – Vol 4, No 1 (2008) – http://www.ci-journal.net/index.php/ciej/article/view/426/392)

A totalizing view of technology is evident in the work of Virilio, as it AND insight and rich description, from which strategies for action may be devised.

====1AR==== 

**Here’s more ev that you should reject their premise:**
**Kellner ‘99** (Douglas, George F. Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education, UCLA – “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections," Theory, Culture and Society, Vol. 16(5-6), 1999: 103-125, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)

Yet I want to argue in this study that Virilio has a flawed conception of AND machines in our time, albeit with excessively negative and even technophobic proclivities.

**Second – they have the politics K backward. Speed doesn’t ruin politics, it saves us from fascism. Here’s more ev:**
**Stevenson ‘2** Nick Stevenson is a Lecturer in the Department of Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield, Understanding Media Cultures: Social Theory and Mass Communication – page 207-8

The development of the media of mass communications has gradually seen the decline of print AND critique which offers an overly one-sided view of new media technologies.

**Speed K hurts progressive politics – makes fascism more likely, turning all their args.**
**Stevenson ‘2** Nick Stevenson is a Lecturer in the Department of Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield, Understanding Media Cultures: Social Theory and Mass Communication – page 214-15

The arrival of new technologies of communication has offered new possibilities for the social theory AND certitudes of either an exclusively class politics or a less technologically complex society.

===Cap=== 
====2AC==== 

**Practical analysis of government policy is a prerequisite to positive change**
**McClean 01** (David, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope” [[http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm|www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]])

Leftist American culture critics might put their considerable talents to better use if they bury
AND
critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."

**Plan solves – status quo economic decision making process is necessarily abelist. It maximizes service to the “productive elites” we stop that**
**Imrie 01** (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

Part of the boundedness of places also relates to the institutionalisation of spatial practices and
AND
democratising "the ensemble of ideologies and structured practices that shape city development".

**Pure capitalist focus fails to address the multiple axes of ableism**
**Kitchin 10**, Director of the National Institute of Regional and Spatial Analysis (NIRSA is an interdisciplinary and inter-institutional research institute focusing on issues of planning and development, creating knowledge societies, and building sustainable communities) served on a number of government boards and consultative panels, doctorate from the University of Wales, Lecturer in the School of Geosciences at Queen's University of Belfastand the Department of Geography at the National University of Ireland, (Rob, 7/1/10, “ Space, power and the exclusion of disabled people” [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/09687599826678]])

It is increasingly clear that the relationships between disability and society cannot be framed within AND should therefore shift from capital and class to power in its various manifestations.

**Perm do the plan and non-mutually exclusive parts of the alt – Regardless of whether we can expose or fill the gap in our politics doesn’t matter – universalization is based off of the failure, and our policy to accommodate this failure is the best for solving our movement**
**Butler 2k** – Judith Butler, an American post-structuralist philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of feminism, queer theory, political philosophy, and ethics, EDITED BY: Slavoj Zizek, a Slovenian philosopher and cultural critic working in the traditions of Hegelianism, Marxism and Lacanian psychoanalysis. He has made contributions to political theory, film theory and theoretical psychoanalysis, Ernesto Laclau, an Argentine political theorist often described as post-Marxist. He studied History in Buenos Aires, graduating from the Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires in 1964, and received a PhD from Essex University in 1977 (“Contingency, Hegemony, Universality: Contemporary Dialogues of the Left”, Published by Verso in 2000, Restaging the Universal: Hegemony and the limits of Formalism by Judith Butler, page 31-32)

Thus Laclau identifies a condition common to all politicization, but it is precisely not AND the fullness of the community as an absence. (p. 57)

**Ignoring the state does not make bad policies go away – it just leaves elites unaccountable**
**Coombs 10** [Nathan, Political Philosophy at the University of London, “Roundtable Discussion on ‘Transnational Militancy in the 21st Century’” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2]

There seems to be a number of trends that we need to take account of AND general acceptance of a world run more and more by unaccountable elites.

**We must engage the state as planners – Using a universalized particular demand to provide transportation for urban populations acts as a counter-methodology to that of neoliberal planning Plan breaks down the system**
**Mitchell AND. Snyder, ’10** -PhD Michigan and executive director of the Institute on Disabilities, AND Assistant Professor of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago (David T. and Sharon L “Disability as Multitude Re-working Non-Productive Labor Power” Temple University and Independent Scholar, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 4.2 (2010), 179-194)

It may seem strange to cite disability movements in the context of a definition of AND common are also the expression of living labor. ("Kairos," 225)

**Representations of capitalism as hegemonically dominant preclude the realization of actual social change. Changing this view is a pre-requisite to the alt.**
**Gibson-Graham 06** – J.K., pen name shared by feminist economic geographers Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson (“The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political Economy”, pg 2-5)

The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It) problematizes "capitalism" as AND take root and flourish. A long shot perhaps but one worth pursuing.

**Cap inevitable—the alt cedes the political**
**Wilson 1** — John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 15-16)

Capitalism is far too ingrained in American life to eliminate. If you go into AND and tries to sell copies of the Socialist Worker to an uninterested public.

**Turns the K**
**Wilson 1** — John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 121-123)

Progressives need to be pragmatic in order to be powerful. However, pragmatism shouldn't AND if the left can change its political assumptions about smaller, specific issues.

**The physical construction of urban spaces reproduce biopolitics which is evil yall – reject it**
**Imrie 01** (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

These ideas about identity and place underpin the emergence of a variant of urban studies AND socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference.

**The impact is bare life**
**Dean 04** (Mitchell, professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)

Fourth thesis: Bio-politics captures life stripped naked (or the zoē that AND the very core of modern politics, ethics, and systems of justice.

===Lacan=== 
====2AC==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Psychoanalysis causes passivity, fatalism and inaction also kills agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Gordon, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, psychotherapist living and working in London, author of Face to Face: Therapy as ethics, RACE & CLASS, v42, n4, p. 30/1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The postmodernists' problem is that they cannot live with dis-appointment. </span><span class="underline">All the </span>
<span class="underline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">change the world, not just to interpret it need to look elsewhere. </span>
Non falisifiable don’t buyyyy it
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bunge 10 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mario, philosopher at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, “Should Psychoanalysis Be in the Science Museum?” [[http://stirling-westrup-tt.blogspot.com/2010/11/tt-ns-2780-robert-bud-and-mario-bunge.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We should congratulate the Science Museum for setting up an exhibition on psychoanalysis. Exposure </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">than a century</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in contrast with scientific psychology, which is thriving.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Perm do the plan without self-referentiality. The physical construction of urban spaces reproduce otherization – the aff if CONFRONTATION with reality of instrumentalization they criticize – this is a fundamental link turn </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Imrie 01</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)</span>

<span class="TitleChar">These ideas about identity and place underpin</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the emergence of a variant of </span><span class="TitleChar">urban studies </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Alt fails and re-produces the ablism and marginalization – the plan is sufficient to breakdown identity</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Roberts 2007 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, [[https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1]] //)//</span>

//<span class="TitleChar">While embracing Žižek’s Lacanian structure of “over-identification” may prove fruitful for </span>//
//<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>//
//<span class="TitleChar">has been socially interpreted in reverse in the context of people with disabilities.</span>//


//<span class="TitleChar">Perm do the plan and the alt – if it can overcome the squo then it can overcome the plan</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Perm do both – structural reversal solves – that traverses the language lacan and zizek are rangry about</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Roberts 2007 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, [[https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1]]</span>// )

//The over identification of “people with disabilities” is one which embraces the concept//
//AND//
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">” of disability rights and advocacy can sing – and not merely speak!</span>

Plan solves identity politics
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Mitchell AND</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Snyder, ’10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> -PhD Michigan and executive director of the Institute on Disabilities, AND Assistant Professor of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago (David T. and Sharon L “Disability as Multitude Re-working Non-Productive Labor Power” Temple University and Independent Scholar, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 4.2 (2010), 179-194)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">It may seem strange to cite disability movements in the context of a definition of </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">common are also the expression of living labor.</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> ("Kairos," 225)</span>

Avoiding anti-politics is key to check the worst violence

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Small ‘6 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we equip </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Evading concrete political solutions like the plan only reinforces the ideological structures they wish to criticize </span>–<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> only in the world of the permutation can we effectively confront the consequences of present violence and injustice</span>
<span class="cite">__Sharpe, 2002__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew, recently submitted a doctoral thesis, "The Critical Theory of Slavoj Zizek," al the University of Melbourne, CULTURAL LOGIC: AN ELECTRONIC JOURNAL OF MARXIST THEORY AND PRACTICE, November 15, http://eserver.oi,g/clogic/2002/sharpe.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">38.1 hope now to have defended the two contentions I announced in my </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">, if we are stuck in a deleteriouslv transferential relationship with Lacanian theory</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Lack of objectivity is irrelevant --- we can still make accurate claims about the world
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferris 92</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Timothy, Emeritus Prof @ Berkeley & Fellow at American Association for the Advancement of Science, __The Mind's Sky: Human Intelligence in a Cosmic Context__</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This is not to say</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">every opinion about the universe deserves equal attention</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">a fantasy</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">," Sciama remarked, "</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">so let's find out about it</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">." </span>
===Taoism=== 
====2AC==== 

**Practical analysis of government policy is a prerequisite to positive change**
**McClean 01** (David, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope” [[http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm|www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]])

Leftist American culture critics might put their considerable talents to better use if they bury AND critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."

**Responsibility DA**
**Hughes, 2002** (Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)
Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to embrace the abnormally normal. It makes AND ferocity of an ultimate recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions.’

**The existence of the alt prevents solvency**
**Khema 94** (Ayya, monk, “All of us beset by Birth, Decay, and Death.”]

In the world we live in, we can find people, animals, nature AND is one's own, everyone has to find his through his own efforts.

**Taoism alone precludes action—the permutation solves best**
**Fejfar 2007** (Anthony, Juris Doctor (J.D.)University of Nebraska College of Law (with Distinction), Author, “Zen and Daoism: Action and Inaction”, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/191877/Zen-and-Daoism-Action-and-Inaction]], Hemanth)

Some argue that Daoism and Zen are basically the same spirituality or philosophy. I AND violence which allows for self-defense, but notwonton violent aggression.

**Even if we can’t know the right course of action, taking action in what seems to be the best direction boosts personal value and provides new information and experiences which can change the world**
**Ammon-Wexler 2004** (Jill, Brain Researcher and Personal Excellence Mentor, “The ZEN of Taking Action”, [[http://www.trainersdirect.com/resources/articles/Wexler/ZenofAction.htm]], Hemanth)

You've probably had the experience at one time or another of feeling "stuck" AND and break free of the painful, mind-numbing cement of indecision!

**The claim that suffering is inevitable and that intervention to suffering is life-negating is nothing more than a thinly-veiled cover for mass rape and genocide – accepting their argument necessitates an unconditional acceptance of brutal atrocities in all their forms.**
Kelley L. **Ross**, professor of philosophy at L.A. Valley College, **2003**. “Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900)”, [[http://www.friesian.com/NIETZSCH.HTM|__http://www.friesian.com /NIETZSCH.HTM__]]

While the discussion of Existentialism treated Nietzsche as an Existentialist before his time, with AND blond" and "German," deleted or altered in the Golffing translation]

**The physical construction of urban spaces reproduce biopolitics which is evil yall – reject it**
**Imrie 01** (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

These ideas about identity and place underpin the emergence of a variant of urban studies AND socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference.

**The impact is bare life**
**Dean 04** (Mitchell, professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)

Fourth thesis: Bio-politics captures life stripped naked (or the zoē that AND the very core of modern politics, ethics, and systems of justice.
===Agency/State K (Stratford)=== 

**Accepting their alt kills Value and change**
**Biskowski 95** Lawrence J. PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE --- assistant professor of political science, University of Georgia, “Politics versus Aesthetics: Arendt's Critiques of Nietzsche and Heidegger,” The Review of Politics, Vol. 57, No. 1, Winter, 1995

Even this great exchange of values, Arendt seems to tell us, was not AND of the weak, and possibly even their most dangerous one."4*

**Mobility for the disabled must be addressed through the lens that society needs to change in order to provide accommodations**
**Hurst 95** (Rachel, “Overcoming Obstacles to the Integration of Disabled People”, UNESCO, March)

Disabled people have traditionally been marginalised in social development discussions. This report outlines the AND change society through their increased participation, their skills, experience and insights.

**Alt fails and re-produces the ablism and marginalization – the plan is sufficient to breakdown identity**
**Roberts 2007** (Jeff Roberts, Bachelors in Communication Studies from Baylor, from his Master’s thesis – “The Rhetorical Structure of Disability: Bridging the Gap Between What is ‘Spoken’ and What is ‘Said’ with Song - Over-Signifying with Personhood Against the Backdrop of Disease-Centric Discourse”, https://beardocs.baylor.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2104/5086/Jeff_Roberts_Masters.pdf?sequence=1 )

While embracing Žižek’s Lacanian structure of “over-identification” may prove fruitful for AND has been socially interpreted in reverse in the context of people with disabilities.

**The boundaries and spatialized parts of infrastructure is the biopolitical way of sorting and reproducing barriers the K tries to stop – we turn that – mobility is a line of flight**
**Imrie 01** (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

These ideas about identity and place underpin the emergence of a variant of urban studies AND socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference.

**Avoiding anti-politics is key to check the worst violence**
**Small ‘6** (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)

What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we equip AND at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.

===Heroism 2AC=== 

**The notion of a single power structure dictating all is a lie- structures exist outside of capitalism – the affirmative breaks down relevant barriers to exclusion in the squo**
**Pickett 5** [Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 10-11]

Axel Honneth, among others, points out that Foucault's conception of power is a AND of the correlation of forces, relations, and practices that constitute him.

**Perm do both We can rewrite physical space through demanding inclusion for disability.**
**Quinlan and Bates 12** (Margaret M. Assistant Professor of Communication and a Core Faculty Member of the Health Psychology Ph.D. Program at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.; Benjamin R, Associate Professor Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Communication Studies Ohio University "Walking In The City": Performance Of Strategies And Tactics In The 1985 Bus Accessibility Protests Disability Studies Quarterly Vol 32, No 1 (2012))

In addition to the temporary concordance of strategies and tactics, our analysis found that AND Fletcher and others to expand the tablet upon which their bodies can write.

**The boundaries and spatialized parts of infrastructure is the biopolitical way of sorting and reproducing barriers the K tries to stop – we turn that – mobility is a line of flight**
**Imrie 01** (Barriered and Bounded Places and the Spatialities of Disability. By: Imrie, Rob, Urban Studies (Routledge)

These ideas about identity and place underpin the emergence of a variant of urban studies AND socio-cultural codes which are, potentially, powerful demarcaters of difference.



=Port Security Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===Coast Guard Advantage=== 

**The Coast Guard is stretched thin – limited resources and expanded operational responsibilities are forcing tradeoffs**
**Korb et, al, 2010** (Lawrence J. Korb is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information, Sean Duggan is a Research Associate for national security at the Center for American Progress, Laura Conley is a Research Assistant for National Security and International Policy, Center for American Progress, “Building a U.S. Coast Guard for the 21st Century,” http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2010/06/pdf/coast_guard.pdf)

The Coast Guard has long touted its unofficial motto “doing more with less.” AND of missions the service is expected to perform and live with the consequences.

**The status quo forces overreliance on the Coast Guard to provide port security – that dooms their ability to fulfill other missions**
**Kennedy, 2003** (Harold, “U.S. Coast Guard Ratchets Up Port Security”, National Defense Magazine, June, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2003/June/Pages/US_Coast_Guard3856.aspx)

Responding to the threat of terrorism, the U.S. Coast Guard has AND in the near-shore zones, at harbor entrances and between ports.”

**This is particularly true now – devoting Coast Guard focus and resources towards port security prevents the Coast Guard from being successful in other endeavors**
**Miller, 2011** (Candice S., “Securing the Nation’s Ports and Maritime Border – a Review of the Coast Guard’s Post-9/11 Homeland Security Missions”, Hearing before the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, Committee on Homeland Security, U.S. House of Representatives, June 14, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg72241/html/CHRG-112hhrg72241.htm)

Our border is also liquid. It is in the Great Lakes between the United AND ways to balance its security role, without subtracting from its core competencies.

**The plan allows ports to provide for their own security freeing up Coast Guard focus and resources for other missions**
**Daily Press, 2007** ([[http://articles.dailypress.com/2007-01-04/news/0701040308_1_homeland-security-hampton-roads-security-grants]])

Hampton Roads also will be eligible for other Homeland Security grants, "including the AND didn't get any, this clearly is a step in the right direction."

**Scenario One – The Arctic**

**Coast Guard port security trades off with Coast Guard missions in the arctic**
**Currier, 2012** (John, vice commandant of the Coast Guard, speaks during a Budget Challenges and Opportunities panel at the Navy League’s SeaAir-Space Exposition April 18 at National Harbor, Md. At his left is Adm. Mark V. Ferguson III, vice chief of naval operations, and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., assistant commandant of the Marine Corps. Interview by Seapower Magazine, August 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/seniorleadership/DOCS/2012-08-01;%20Seapower%20VCG.pdf)

Is the Coast Guard stretched too thin? CURRIER: We are an extremely lean AND , so extracting re - sources in one area will cost in another.

**That makes arctic conflict inevitable and destroys U.S. power projection**
**Korb et al, 2010** (Lawrence J. Korb is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information, Sean Duggan is a Research Associate for national security at the Center for American Progress, Laura Conley is a Research Assistant for National Security and International Policy, Center for American Progress, “Building a U.S. Coast Guard for the 21st Century,” [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2010/06/pdf/coast_guard.pdf]])

According to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, “average AND its fleet, although it has reportedly been studying the issue since 2008.

**Arctic conflict goes global and nuclear**
**Wallace and Staples, 2010** (Michael Wallace – Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia and Steven Staples – President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. AND in which nuclear powers find themselves in military confrontation can be taken lightly.

**Scenario Two – Overfishing**

**Port security mission creep dooms Coast Guard enforcement of fisheries law, which decks U.S. fisheries and guarantees uncontrollable overfishing**
**Jones, 2008** (Matthew, J.D. Lewis and Clark Law School, “Enforcement of U.S. Fisheries Laws in the EEZ”, Ocean and Coastal Law Journal, Vol. 13 No. 2, [[http://mainelaw.maine.edu/academics/oclj/pdf/vol13_2/vol13_oclj_281.pdf]])

Coast Guard enforcement of U.S. fisheries laws illustrates how the state of AND , and to detect violations that can be subverted within the EEZ. 26

**Extinction**
**Dobrzynski et al, 2002** (Tanya, Marine Ecosystems Specialist, “Oceans at Risk: Wasted Catch and the Destruction of Ocean Life”, http://www.pewtrusts.org/uploadedFiles/wwwpewtrustsorg/Reports/Protecting_ocean_life/env_oceana_bycatch.pdf)

The oceans, central to human survival, are at risk. They feed billions AND increasingly threatened, so does the circle of life that sustains human populations.

===Terror Advantage=== 

**The United States will be targeted for large-scale WMD terror within the next year**
**Forbes, 2011** (Rahim Kanani, Founder and Editor-in-Chief of World Affairs Commentary, “New al-Qaeda Chief Zawahiri Has Strong Nuclear Intent”, 6/29, http://www.forbes.com/sites/rahimkanani/2011/06/29/new-al-qaeda-chief-zawahiri-has-strong-nuclear-intent/)

Rigid, arrogant, unpopular and lacking the necessary charisma to reenergize a battered global AND remember that Zawahiri’s arrogance and rigidness are not substitutes for determination and will.

**And – U.S. seaports will be targeted – both directly and as conduits for attacks elsewhere**
**Goslin, 2008** (Charles, International Expert in Security Threat and Risk Assessment, “Maritime and Port Security”, Duostech, 11/12, p. 4-5)

Global trade is dependent mainly on maritime transport. It is estimated that more than AND also had security passes to various airports in the U.S.13

**And – Port security is in shambles now – WMD attacks are imminent**
**Calvan, 2012** (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3)

The Department of Homeland Security will miss an initial deadline of July 12 to comply AND products - arrives in the United States in large, metal cargo containers.

**And – The threat is real and imminent – it’s only a matter of time**
**Frantz, 7/15**/2012 (Douglas, Washington Post National Security Editor and Deputy Staff Director and Chief Investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Port Security: U.S. Fails to meet Deadline for Scanning of Cargo Containers”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html)

The administration’s failure to meet the deadline has left some members of Congress and outside AND who wants to get a weapon of mass destruction into the United States.”

**And – The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy**
**Bunn, 2010** (Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April, http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf)

Complacency about the threat is perhaps the biggest obstacle to forging the urgent, in AND help them or to buy their stolen nuclear material informing the police.19

**And – Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**
**Hellman, 2008** (Martin E., Emeritus Professor at Stanford, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence”, Spring, http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf)

The threat of nuclear terrorism looms much larger in the public’s mind than the threat AND assume that preventing World War III is a necessity—not an option.

**And – Nuclear terrorism triggers multiple scenarios for world-ending, global catastrophe**
**Ayson, 2010** (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects”, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Vol. 33 Iss. 7, July)

But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a AND for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

**And – U.S. port attacks would cause unprecedented disruption to the world trading system, quickly ushering in global economic chaos**
**Flynn, 2006** (Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards”, 3/9, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074)

It is just a question of time before terrorists with potentially more destructive weapons breach AND U.S. Homeland Security priority, but an urgent global priority.

**And – It would immediately spillover causing economic gridlock around the world**
**Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010** (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)

Scenario Three: Direct Attack on a U.S. Seaport Finally, terrorists AND shipping for almost every consumer need, would quickly run out of food.

**And – The best studies prove economic collapse causes war**
**Royal, 2010** (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict AND not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

**And – Collapse escalates to extinction**
**Bearden, 2000** (Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve it Quickly”, June 24, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm)

History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions. Prior to the final economic AND, and perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.

**And – Global economic chaos guarantees Russia-China war, instability in Korea and Iran, and disease spread – it accesses every major impact**
**Green and Schrage, 2009** (Michael J., Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Stephen P., Associate Professor at Georgetown University and CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business also a former senior official with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, “Its Not Just the Economy”, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)

Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, analysts at the World Bank AND demonstration effect of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home.

**And – Their generic economy impact defense is a non-starter – it assumes recession-induced dips, not total grind-to-a-halt shutdown**
**Flynn, 2003** (Stephen, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, Testimony Before the U.S. Senate, http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)

This is why a terrorist attack involving a cargo container could cause such profound economic AND —as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.

**And – Attacks don’t have to be successful – perception of vulnerability alone is enough to shock the economy and wreck confidence**
**Clark et al, 2007** (Capt. Bruce G. Clark, Retired U.S. Coast Guard, Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate at the California Maritime Academy, Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies at the California Maritime Academy, Capt. Nevin Fidler, “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?”, The California State University, October)

Why? Because, in this new world of unexpected and unplanned for terrorist activities AND requires a managed solution as a part of any counter-terrorism plan.

**And – Port attacks will hit key LNG assets**
**Parfomak and Frittelli, 2007** (Paul W. and John, Resources, Science, and Industry Division of the Congressional Research Service, “Maritime Security: Potential Terrorist Attacks and Protection Priorities”, Congressional Research Service, January 9, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl33787.pdf)

Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Tanker Attacks Potential terrorist attacks on LNG tankers in AND to attack LNG shipping with the intention of harming the general population. 101

**And – That triggers explosions fifty-five times the size of Hiroshima**
**Lovins and Lovins, 2001** (Amory, Co-founder of the Rocky Mountain Institute, Holder of Six Honorary Doctorates, Hunter, former CEO of the Rocky Mountain Institute, J.D. from Loyola University School of Law, Brittle Power, p. 87-88)

LNG is less than half as dense as water, so a cubic meter of AND of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

**And – Only the plan solves—terrorism is inevitable**
**Davis and Jenkins 2002** (Paul K. Davis – a research leader at RAND and a professor at the RAND Graduate School and Brian Michael Jenkins – served since 1998 as senior adviser to the president of RAND, a nonprofit institution that helps improve policy and decisionmaking through research and analysis, “Deterrence & Influence in Counterterrorism: A Component in the War on al Qaeda,” http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/MR1619.pdf)

OBSTACLES TO DETERRENCE Terrorist Motivations Are Strong However much we may wish it were not AND hatreds are passed on successfully to other people, even to children.12

===Trafficking Advantage=== 

**Scenario 1 is drugs—**
**Seaports are used as vital conduits for drug trafficking**
**Eski, 2011** (Yarin, Ph.D. candidate at Glasgow University, Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, “Port of Call: Towards a Criminology of Port Security”, http://crj.sagepub.com/content/early/2011/07/16/1748895811414593.full.pdf)

As mentioned previously, international drugs trafficking has been affiliated with the maritime realm for AND not the only smuggling enterprise that uses the port for the insecurity throughput.

**And – This is especially true for the trafficking of Cocaine into the United States**
**McGlone, 2007** (Tim, “Drug Ring Raises Concerns About U.S. Port Security”, The Virginian Pilot, January 27, http://hamptonroads.com/node/213521)

Federal authorities have been investigating a drug ring involving longshoremen and illegal immigrants who smuggled AND the United States." The investigation highlights the vulnerability of the nation's ports.

**And – Cocaine traffic into the U.S. decimates the Amazon**
**Hirsch, 2002** (Tim, BBC Correspondent, “Cocaine Industry Killing Rainforest”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/2384303.stm)

Cocaine-users across the world are helping to destroy the Amazon rainforest, Colombian AND the world, because this is what the world needs for its oxygen."

**And – Amazon destruction triggers multiple chain reactions that end in extinction**
**Takacs, 1996** (David, Professor of Environmental Humanities at the Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State University-Monterey Bay, The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise, http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm)

"Habitat destruction and conversion are eliminating species at such a frightening pace that extinction AND the famines could lead to a thermonuclear war, which could extinguish civilization.""

**And – Cocaine kills thousands of people every year in the United States**
**UNODC, 2010** (United Nations Office on Drug and Crime, “Transnational Drug Market Analysis: the Global Cocaine Market”, World Drug Report, July 21, http://www.unodc.org/documents/wdr/WDR_2010/1.3_The_globa_cocaine_market.pdf)

The use of cocaine constitutes, first of all, a major health problem. AND in general (30) or for the use of alcohol (6).

**And – Cocaine revenues maintain FARC fighting capability and destabilize the region**
**Chalk, 2011** (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact and Response”, RAND)

The drug trade has had an effect across South, Central, and North America AND undermined political stability by feeding pervasive corruption throughout the police and administrative bureaucracy.

**Latin American instability causes global war**
**Manwaring 2005** (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)

The Issue of State Failure. - President Chávez also understands that the process leading AND and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65

**Scenario 2 is Human Trafficking—**
**Seaports are vital conduits for criminal networks that force humans into sex trafficking. Denied of fundamental dignity, these individuals become enslaved to a system of transportation that moves them from place to place only to be used and dehumanized**
**Eski, 2011** (Yarin, Ph.D. candidate at Glasgow University, Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, “Port of Call: Towards a Criminology of Port Security”, http://crj.sagepub.com/content/early/2011/07/16/1748895811414593.full.pdf)
In June 2000, 58 Chinese illegal immigrants tragically died in the back of a AND with and re-enforce each other (Albrecht, 2002: 166).

**And – Human trafficking into the United States is running rampant – enforcement measures have been completely inadequate THAT’s SLAVERY reject it**
**SSN, 2010** (Seaport Security News, "U.S. Port Security Is A Global Issue”, November 23, http://www.seaportsecuritynews.com/?p=212)

Millions of people every year are the victims of human trafficking. Slavery, which AND created, steps large and small are being made to combat the crisis.

**And – Fortunately, port security grants fund improvements that are necessary in the effort to combat human trafficking, but more investment is key**
**PR Newswire, 2011** (http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html)

Among the materials Navy SEALS found in Osama Bin Laden's Pakistan hideout were plans showing AND job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense.”

===Maritime Domain Awareness Advantage=== 

**We are close to achieving effective MDA now – coordination through Interagency Operation Centers is critical**
**Caldwell, 2012** (Stephen, Director of Homeland Security and Justice Issues, “Maritime Security Coast Guard Needs to Improve Use and Management of Interagency Operations Centers”, February, http://gao.gov/assets/590/588476.pdf)

To protect the nation's ports and waterways, the federal government strives to balance the AND and is using WatchKeeper as an important information sharing tool to accomplish this.

**And – Despite statue, lack of funding has doomed the formation of effective Interagency Operation Centers**
**Lipowicz, 2012** (Alice, “Coast Guard info-sharing at ports slow to get started”, Federal Computer Weekly, http://fcw.com/Articles/2012/02/14/Coast-Guard-info-sharing-at-ports-slow-to-get-started.aspx?Page=1)

Six years after Congress passed a law requiring that key U.S. seaports AND its sectors have achieved IOCs with full operating capability,” the GAO said.

**And – Independently, increased port security funding is necessary for state-of-the-art MDA intelligence capability**
**FEMA, 2012** (Federal Emergency Management Agency, “FY2012 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP_ Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), ttp://www.fema.gov/pdf/government/grant/2012/fy12_psgp_foa.pdf)

PSGP Priorities In addition to these two overarching priorities, the Department has identified the AND information sharing agreements and international conventions and treaties will greatly assist enabling MDA.

**And – Effective MDA is critical to prevent EMP attacks**
**Cooper and Pfaltzgraff, 2010** (Henry, Ph. D from NYU, Director of the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization, Senior Associate of the National Institute for Public Policy, Robert, Ph. D from the University of Pennsylvania, President of the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Professor of International Security Studies at the Fletcher School, “Countering the EMP Threat: The Role of Missile Defense”, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGWhitePaper.pdf)

As noted above, early warning of a pending attack could empower the U. AND layered defense against EMP attacks on the United States from off our coasts.

**And – EMP attacks outweigh nuclear war**
**Gertz, 2005** (Bill, US Seen Vulnerable to Space ‘Pulse’ Attack, Washington Times, November 22, http://www.washtimes.com/national/20051121-103434-8775r.htm)

The United States is highly vulnerable to attack from electronic pulses caused by a nuclear AND far more Americans than a nuclear weapon detonated in our most populous city."

**And – Effective MDA is key to naval power**
**Office of Naval Research, No Date Given** (“Maritime Domain Awareness”, http://www.onr.navy.mil/en/About-ONR/science-technology-strategic-plan/Maritime-Domain-Awareness.aspx)

The success of naval forces depends greatly on situational awareness in the maritime domain. AND of the United States. It also includes effective dissemination of that knowledge.

**And – U.S. naval power solves great power war**
**Conway et al, 2007** (James T., General U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)

Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous to global stability AND and sustain forces, sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore.


===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should provide substantial no-match-required grant funding for port security.**

===Solvency=== 

**Solvency –**

**Port Security Grants are severely underfunded – the plan is key to fill critical infrastructure gaps and ensure effective port security**
**Holmes, 2012** (John, Deputy Executive Director, Port of Los Angeles, Testimony of Captain John M. Holmes Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency – Director and State & Local Witnesses”, March 7, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf, p. 1-2)

Since 9/11, port security has become a top priority for AND see a degradation of these efforts as a result of grant funding reductions.

**And – Security improvements are ready to be implemented – lack of funding and the cost-share requirement are the only obstacles**
**Kimery, 2012** (Anthony, Staff Writer for the Homeland Security Today website, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations” published 3/9/2012, http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/grants-funding/single-article/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations/8e5771ad69aa40aed3ae590bf914477d.html)

This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of AND “Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”

**And – Only the plan’s federal investment solves**
**Wainio, 2012** (Richard, Port Director and CEO, Tampa Port Authority, “House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications Hearing “Ensuring the Efficiency, Effectiveness and Transparency of Homeland Security Grants (Part II): Stakeholder Perspectives”, April, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/TPADOCS-.pdf)

The plan to consolidate the Port Security Grant Program into one National Preparedness Grant Program AND to create a less efficient and less focused approach to funding necessary projects.

==Case== 
===AT: Coast Guard Tradeoff=== 

**They have the link backwards – the shipbuilding industry is reliant on the Navy, not the other way around**
**Lyons 09** (James Lyons, U.S. Navy retired admiral, was commander in chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, senior U.S. military representative to the United Nations, and deputy chief of naval operations, where he was principal adviser on all Joint Chiefs of Staff matters, “Naval shipbuilders sinking,” 2-22-9, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/feb/22/naval-shipbuilders-sinking/?page=all)

American naval shipbuilders were once the pride of the nation and the envy of the AND most likely will not be calling for increases in the Navy budget.

**No link – money comes from the feds**
**Nagle, 2006** (Kurt J., President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities, Testimony Before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, March, http://www.aapaports.org/Issues/content.cfmmnitemnumber=&tnitemnumber=&itemnumber=1066&unitemnumber=&pf=1&snitemnumber=)

Soon after September 11, Congress established the Port Security Grant program to provide much AND
AAPA recommends an annual funding level of $400 million for this program.

===AT: Other Attacks=== 

**Ports will be targeted – not land or air assets**
**Carlton, 2001** (Bruce, Acting Deputy Maritime Administrator, Testimony before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, July 21, http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/01test/Carlton2.htm)

Terrorism is also a concern for seaport security. The threat of such activity and AND and to work with the ports to explore ways to minimize criminal activity.

===AT: Security Slow Trade=== 

**Their argument is empirically denied**
**Nadler et al, 2012** (Jerrold L., “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, The International Herald Tribune, June 28, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/)

Homeland Security says it would cost $16 billion or more to meet the mandate AND have offered to work with the department to put the law into effect.

**Inspection would be non-intrusive**
**Keefer, 2008** (Wendy, J.D., “Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect the Homeland and the International Supply Chain”, Campbell Law Review Vol. 30:139) *DNDO=Domestic Nuclear Detection Office

Better technologies may permit more efficient cargo screening and examinations of a larger number of AND that secures the doors does not mean that the container is secure.” 159

==Add-Ons== 
===AIDs=== 

**Drug trafficking is overwhelmingly responsible for the spread of AIDs**
**BBC News 2000** (Online, “Aids explodes on trafficking routes,” 15 June, 2000, http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/778609.stm)

About a year ago, researcher Chris Beyrer predicted a new outbreak of the Aids AND countries affected "didn't care about drug users" and simply incarcerated them.

**AIDs spread leads to global nuclear war**
**Koblentz, 10** (Deputy Director of the Biodefense Program @ GMU, Assistant Professor in Public and International Affairs, March, "Biosecurity Reconsidered: Calibrating Biological Threats and Responses." International Security Vol. 34, No. 4, p. 96-132)

Pandemics are disease outbreaks that occur over a wide geographic area, such as a AND the "single greatest reversal in human development" in modern history. 118


===Biodiversity=== 

**Ports allow entrance of invasive species—plan is key to free up more money to prevent intrusion**
**Lovell et al. 2006** (Agricultural and Research Economists, Sabrina J Lovell, Susan F Stone, Linda Fernandez, “The Economic Impacts of Aquatic Invasive Species: A Review of the Literature,” Web, 4/06, Agricultural and Resource Economics Review, Proquest)

Invasive species are a growing threat in the United States, causing losses in biodiversity AND of Technology Assessment (OTA) 1993, Pimentel et al. 2000].

**Extinction**
**Diner, 1994** (Major David N., U.S. Army, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?”, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Winter, Lexis)

By causing widespread extinctions, humans have artificially simplified many ecosystems. As biologic simplicity AND , 80 [hum]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

===Bioterror=== 

**Port security stops bioterror attacks**
**Bakir 2007** (Niyazi Onur – University of Southern California, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events, 1-1-2007, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain,” http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports, Page 19)

There is no effective detection equipment for biological and chemical weapons. There are many AND with undeclared hazardous cargo is vital to reduce chemical threat at US ports.

**Extinction**
**Horowitz, 05** - Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard (Does Proliferation Matter? Assessing the Empirical Impact of Biological, Chemical and Nuclear Weapons on International Security, p. 19)

Though biological weapons are difficult to deliver, Steinbrunner (1997) argues the consequences AND This alternative view of chemical and biological weapons leads to the following hypothesis.

===Russian Economy=== 

**One attack stops all LNG imports**
**Energy Bulletin 2004** (Hector Igbikiowubo, “2020 Scenario: OPEC May Be Replaced,” 1-12-2004, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/145)

Its operations, which involve ExxonMobil, ConocoPhilips and France's Total among others, will AND the biggest LNG buyers, 21 billion cubic meters consumed in 2002 alone.

**That kills Russia’s economy**
**EIA 2007** (Russian Economy: Background” no specific date, Energy Information Administration,” http://www.eia.doe.gov/emeu/cabs/Russia/Background.html)

In 2007, Russia’s real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by approximately 8 AND 30 percent of all foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country.

**Extinction**
**Filger 2009** (Sheldon, Columnist and Founder – Global EconomicCrisis.com, “Russian Economy Faces Disasterous Free Fall Contraction”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html)

In Russia, historically, economic health and political stability are intertwined to a degree AND the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.

==Topicality== 

===T-Infrastructure=== 

**We meet—the plan invests in ports**
**Chapman, 2011** (Chapman and Cutler LLP, “The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank”, Client Alert, September 29, http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf)

Eligibility for financial assistance must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of AIFAʼs Board of Directors AND disposal facilities o Drinking water treatment facilities o Levees o Open space management systems

**Port security grants directly invest in transportation infrastructure**
**CFDA, No Date Given** (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, “Port Security Grant Program”, https://www.cfda.gov/?s=program&mode=form&tab=step1&id=6f8d5141a3f6455eb4236957a2d860b2)

The FY 2012 PSGP plays an important role in the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive AND the funding priorities outlined in FY 2012 PSGP Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA).

**Counter Interpretation – infrastructure investment includes funding for security improvements**
**Office of Governor Paterson, 2010** (David A., Former Governor of New York, “Governor Paterson Announces $42 Million for Rail and Port Improvements Across the State”, September 28, http://www.governor.ny.gov/archive/paterson/printable/092810Rail_Port_Impr ovements_printable.html)

"Investing in transportation infrastructure improvement projects is essential not only to supporting a stable AND ability to improve or support safety, security, economic development and sustainability.


===T-Investment=== 

**Infrastructure grants are investments**
**The Chattanoogan, 2002** (“Chamber Facilitates Infrastructure Grants for UnumProvident Expansion” June 22, http://www.chattanoogan.com/2002/6/22/23276/Chamber-Facilitates-Infrastructure.aspx)

Steve Hiatt of the Chamber¹s Economic Development department acted as liaison between UnumProvident AND are pleased to provide this assistance to both the county and the company."

**Counter Interpretation – infrastructure investment includes funding for security improvements**
**Office of Governor Paterson, 2010** (David A., Former Governor of New York, “Governor Paterson Announces $42 Million for Rail and Port Improvements Across the State”, September 28, http://www.governor.ny.gov/archive/paterson/printable/092810Rail_Port_Impr ovements_printable.html)

"Investing in transportation infrastructure improvement projects is essential not only to supporting a stable AND ability to improve or support safety, security, economic development and sustainability.


==Counterplans== 
===2AC Certainty Key=== 

**Lack of certainty will undermine port security investment**
**Krepinevich 8** (Andrew F. Krepinevich, Jr., President, is an expert on US military strategy, policy and operations, military revolutions, and counterinsurgency. He gained extensive strategic planning experience on the personal staff of three secretaries of defense, in the Department of Defense’s Office of Net Assessment, and as a member of the National Defense Panel, the Defense Science Board Task Force on Joint Experimentation, and the Joint Forces Command’s Transformation Advisory Board. He is the author of numerous CSBA reports on such topics as the Quadrennial Defense Review, alliances, the war in Iraq, and transformation of the US military. He has provided expert testimony before congressional committees, as well as academic and other professional groups. 2008 Strategy for the Long Haul Defense Investment Strategies in an Uncertain World http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2008.08.21-Defense-Investment-Strategies.pdf)

What factors contribute to successful investing in periods of discontinuity? One is the ability AND , there is a strong bias toward continuing down the current investment path.


===2AC CoC CP=== 

**And – Star this evidence – the counterplan fails; only the plan solves**
**Barnes and Oloruntoba, 2005** (Dr. Paul, Richard, “Assurance of Security in Maritime Supply Chains”, The 6th International Business research Forum: Global Security Risks and International Competitiveness, at The Fox School of Business and Management at Temple University, April 1-2, http://eprints.qut.edu.au/2123/1/2123.pdf)

Both the CSI and C-TPAT focus on sound strategies for addressing container security AND issues relevant to both security policy and management practice within maritime supply chains.

**And – We cannot trust that other countries will strictly enforce effective security – the plan is key**
**Flynn, 2011** (Stuart, Vice President at SecureWest International, Global Maritime Security Company, “Next Generation Port Security”, Port Technology International, http://www.porttechnology.org/images/uploads/technical_papers/PT40-25.pdf)

The small boat threat demonstrates that greater attention needs to be applied to tracking and AND as the threat here – stowaways are still a constant drain on resources.

**And – Their counterplan makes no sense – a Code of Conduct would just commit countries to implementing consistent security improvements; but funding via the plan is a prerequisite to implementing any improvements in the U.S.**
**Mackby et al, 2005** (Jennifer, Center for Strategic and International Studies - France, Ola Dahlman, Bernard Sitt, Andre Poucet, Arend Meerburg, Bernard Massinon, Edward Ifft, Masahiko Asada, Ralph Alewine, “Container Security: A Proposal for a Comprehensive Code of Conduct”, National Defense University, January, http://www.ndu.edu/CTNSP/docUploaded/DTP9%20Container%20Security.pdf)

It should be noted that there is currently no forum in which governments, industry AND cooperative regime that will support the authorities and industry in implementing the agreement.

**And – Security must be enforced at the port of ENTRY not the port of DEPARTURE – the plan is key**
**Altemöller, 2011** (Frank, “Towards an International Regime of Supply Chain Security: An International Relations Perspective”, World Customs Journal, Vol. 5 No. 2, http://www.worldcustomsjournal.org/media/wcj/-2011/2/Altemoeller.pdf)

There are two fundamental questions concerning the realisation of initiatives for supply chain security: AND therefore do not fulfil the prerequisites as a potential source of danger.35

==Disad Answers== 
===Agenda=== 

====2AC Winners Win==== 

**Winners win**
**Green 10** [professor of political science at Hofstra University, David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]

Moreover, there is a continuously evolving and reciprocal relationship between presidential boldness and achievement AND of the now retired Helen Thomas, this is precisely what they did.


====2AC Plan Popular==== 

**Port security has strong bipart support – SMART proves**
**McCarter, 12** (Mickey, Homeland security beat reporter in Washington DC and worked as military affairs and technology editor and reporter, “Aviation, Port Security Bills Enjoy Bipartisan Support From House Lawmakers”, http://www.hstoday.us/single-article/aviation-port-security-bills-enjoy-bipartisan-support-from-house-lawmakers/8774d00b80793d7b125324dc9dad3510.html)

Democrats applauded last week the passage by the House of several homeland security bills designed AND maritime security efforts are as effective and efficient as practicable," Thompson added.

====1AR Plan Popular==== 

**Port security and getting rid of the cost share requirement are popular**
**Holdeman, 2012** (Eric, the the Security Director at Port of Tacoma. He is responsible for port security and emergency management. He currently serves on the Executive Committee for the Area Maritime Security Committee, Port Representative to the WA State Homeland Security Committee; “SAFE Port Reauthorization Act”; July 14, 2012; http://www.emergencymgmt.com/emergency-blogs/disaster-zone/port-security/SAFE-Port-Reauthorization-Act-071412.html]

The SAFE Port legislation needs to be reauthorized. In actuality the initial legislation has AND inception and her leadership will be critical to the passage of any legislation.

**Widespread congressional support for the plan**
**HSToday, 7/26**/2012 (“Lawmakers Pan DHS Waiver Of Maritime Cargo Scanning Mandate”, http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/today-s-news-analysis/single-article/lawmakers-pan-dhs-waiver-of-maritime-cargo-scanning-mandate/eae3e5c48c01f6571cfa80fb5de90ff5.html)

In a congressional hearing Wednesday, frustrated Republicans and Democrats alike told Homeland Security Secretary AND those containers you believe to be 'high risk,'" Thompson wrote.

**Plan is popular – Viewed as anti-terrorism**
**Lane, 09** Colonel US Army 2/4/2009 (Drefus Sr. “U.S. SEAPORT SECURITY: CRITICAL CHALLENGE FOR DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY” USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA499287)

The 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in New York and AND programs by providing a preliminary assessment of U.S. seaports security.

**Terrorism prevention policies have strong support**
**Semmel 2012** (Andy, served as deputy assistant secretary of state for nuclear nonproliferation in the George W. Bush administration. He is on the board of directors of the nonpartisan Partnership for a Secure America, September 13, 2012, “Nuclear terrorism treaties still incomplete,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/sep/13/nuclear-terrorism-treaties-still-incomplete/)

There is a long and commendable record of U.S. bipartisan support for AND a terrorist ending up with a weapon of mass destruction, especially nuclear.”

**Defense spending overwhelms every link – this card will toast all theirs**
**Maddow, 11** – Rachel, Ph. D in Political Science from Oxford, MSNBC show host and political analyst, The Rachel Maddow Show for March 25, 2011, Transcription

Case in point: there is a magic word in Washington politics. The well AND arms race build up of the Reagan years has been unquestionable in America.

====2AC PC Not Real==== 

**Capital does not affect the agenda**
**Dickinson 09** (Matthew, Professor of political science at Middlebury College, Sotomayer, Obama and Presidential Power, Presidential Power, http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/)

What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals AND an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.



===Elections=== 
====1AR Link Beater==== 

**Americans view Obamas counterterrorist policies as popular**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Goldsmith 2012</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jack, former assistant attorney general in the Bush administration and professor at Harvard Law School and a member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law, February 20, 2012, Washington Post, “Counterterrorism policies receive bipartisan support,” [[http://www.journalgazette.net/article/20120220/EDIT13/120229961/1022]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A Washington Post-ABC News poll this month revealed extraordinary bipartisan support for President </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lower-court judges subsequently reviewed and approved many of the Guantanamo detentions.</span>

**Independents already voting for romney**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blanton, 10/10/12</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dana, BA in Public Policy from Colorado State, Director of Public Opinion Research, ‘Fox News poll: Romney erases Obama's lead nationally after first debate’, </span>[[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/10/10/fox-news-poll-romney-erases-obama-lead-nationally-after-first-debate/|__http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/10/10/fox-news-poll-romney-erases-obama-lead-nationally-after-first-debate/__]]

//Romney’s edge comes mainly from independents//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, white voters and men. Just </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">over half </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">margin, </span>//voters say they wouldn’t trust Obama//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (38-59 percent).</span>

**Can’t change the election – Obama is already perceived as defecit spending right now – farhi evidence internally indicts the thesis of the disad – theres no reason why voters can fux with that shit.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farhi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 7/27/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12 (email viveth for cite <3)</span>

**Public only perceives benefits**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox 9</span> – Karen Fox is the North Carolina State Ports Authority conducting an awareness survey for the AAPA PR Seminar, 2009 (“North Carolina Has Ports?: Ports Awareness Survey – A Work in Progress,” North Carolina Ports, June 23rd 2009, [[http://aapa.files.cms/|http://aapa.files.cms]] plus.com/SeminarPresentations/2009Seminars/2009PublicRelations/Fox_Karen.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What we learned</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">People understand very little about ports’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mission, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">seem to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">very important</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Battling environment and jobs for most positive reaction was </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> competitiveness</span>

**Romney already supports transportation infrastructure—means he can’t use it as a wedge issue**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernstein</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 12/21/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea, Contributor for Transportation Nation, cites a Romney speech on transportation infrastructure, “Romney: We Have to Invest In Infrastructure (VIDEO)”, [[http://transportationnation.org/2011/12/21/romney-we-have-to-invest-in-infrastructure-video/]], Hemanth) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Four years ago, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">before the bi-partisan consensus on infrastructure spending had frayed</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">can pay back the cost of the dredging or improvement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span>

**That means Romney will take the issue __off the table__**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MSNBC</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 7/5/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Transcript of a panel discussion between Democratic pollster Celinda Lake, The Rothenberg Report/Roll Call's Nathan Gonzales and The Hill's A.B. Stoddard, “Political panel: GOP attempts to avoid 'flip-flop' label”, [[http://video.msnbc.msn.com/the-daily-rundown/48080489#48080489|http://video.msnbc.msn.com/the-daily-rundown/48080489#48080489]], Hemanth)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">>> </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> you -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">you have advised a lot of candidates</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">what is </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">just amazing. Every time he's coming off vacation he's making a mistake.</span>

==Kritik Answers== 
===2AC Cap=== 

**Cap inevitable—the alt cedes the political**
**Wilson 1** — John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 15-16)

Capitalism is far too ingrained in American life to eliminate. If you go into AND and tries to sell copies of the Socialist Worker to an uninterested public.

**Turns the K**
**Wilson 1** — John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 121-123)

Progressives need to be pragmatic in order to be powerful. However, pragmatism shouldn't AND if the left can change its political assumptions about smaller, specific issues.

**Economic growth solves the environment**
**Anderson, ‘04** Anderson Prof U. Montana 4 (Terry, professor emeritus of economics at University of Montana, Director of the Property and Environment Research Center, “Why Economic Growth is good for the Environment”, PERC (Property and Environment Research Center), 4/29, http://www.perc.org/articles/article446.php)

In the March 2004 issue of Scientific American, National Aeronautics and Space Administration global AND of global warming "not kill the goose that lays the golden eggs."

**Terror attack inevitable – neoliberal security seeking and grant processes are necessary to stop it – plan key – ensures nuclear lashout**
**Conley 3** (Chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)

The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be the AND would be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made.”

**Neoliberalism is key to value to life, it reduces poverty, and solves war and disease**
**Rockwell 2** Llewellyn H., President of the Mises Institute, The Free Market, “Why They Attack Capitalism”, Volume 20, Number 10, October, http://www.mises.org/freemarket_detail.asp?control=418&sortorder-articledate

If you think about it, this hysteria is astonishing, even terrifying. The AND planning of the type now being urged on American enterprise is perfectly abysmal.

**Economic growth is sustainable**
Leo **Seabra 12** has a background in Communication and Broadcasting and a broad experience which includes activities in Marketing, Advertising, Sales and Public Relations, writes about technology, digital media, sports, travels, food and sustainability, 2/27, “Capitalism can drive Sustainability and also innovation,” http://seabraaffairs.wordpress.com/2012/02/27/capitalism-can-drive-sustainability-and-also-innovation/

There are those who say that if the world does not change their habits, AND work without distortion. The rest he does himself. It regulates itself.

**Degrowth fails – doesn’t reverse problems, is ambiguous, and won’t be adopted**
**Van Den Bergh 10** [Jeroen C.J.M. Van Den Bergh – Research professor at UAB & affiliated with the Institute of Environmental Science & Technology and the Dept. of Economics & Economic History of Universidad Autònoma de Barcelona, May 21, 2010, “Environment versus growth — A criticism of “degrowth” and a plea for “a-growth”, http://degrowth.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/van-den-bergh_degrowth-and-a-growth.pdf]

Five main insights follow from the assessment of degrowth interpretations and strategies. First, AND wider policy package, but it represents the core of any effective solution.

===2AC Psychoanalysis=== 

**Lack of objectivity is irrelevant --- we can still make accurate claims about the world**
**Ferris 92** Timothy, Emeritus Prof @ Berkeley & Fellow at American Association for the Advancement of Science, The Mind's Sky: Human Intelligence in a Cosmic Context

This is not to say that every opinion about the universe deserves equal attention -- AND a fantasy," Sciama remarked, "so let's find out about it."

**Science disproves it**
**Bunge 10** (Mario, philosopher at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, “Should Psychoanalysis Be in the Science Museum?” http://stirling-westrup-tt.blogspot.com/2010/11/tt-ns-2780-robert-bud-and-mario-bunge.html

We should congratulate the Science Museum for setting up an exhibition on psychoanalysis. Exposure AND than a century, in contrast with scientific psychology, which is thriving.

**Competition is the best methodology**
**Gartzkey, 10** – Erik, UC San Diego Political Science Department (“Interdependence Really is Complex,” 2/15/10, http://dss.ucsd.edu/~egartzke/papers/complexinterdep_02242010.pdf)RK

Strategists in the early nuclear era faced a fundamental challenge. How was competition possible AND also imply that interdependent dyads should be more peaceful than asymmetrically dependent dyads.

**No such thing as the lack and it’s impossible to determine**
**Robinson** (PhD Political Theory, University of Nottingham) **05** (Theory and Event, Andrew, 8:1, The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique).

More precisely, I would maintain that "constitutive lack" is an instance of AND accused of being "dangerous" as to be accused of being wrong.

**Predictions are possible and accurate – forecasting can provide an accurate basis for scenario planning**
**DE MESQUITA 11** Bruce Bueno de Mesquita is Silver Professor of Politics at New York University and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution B.A. from Queens, M.A. from Michigan, PhD from Michigan, "FOX-HEDGING OR KNOWING: ONE BIG WAY TO KNOW MANY THINGS" July 18 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/18/bruce-bueno-de-mesquita/fox-hedging-or-knowing-one-big-way-to-know-many-things/

Given what we know today and given the problems inherent in dealing with human interaction AND and evaluated through replicable tests of evidence, we progress toward better prediction.

===2AC Security K=== 

**Uniqueness matters – US has already constructed threats – the military perceives things a certain way – plan addresses proximate causes while the alt is a retreat from politics**
**Wendt 92** (Alexander, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Chicago, International Organization, v46 n2)

Let us assume that processes of identity- and interest-formation have created AND identities and in have become institutionalized, they are almost impossible to transform.

**Dissident IR -- politicization and critique reproduces sovereignty and exploitation. Only political action within international relations can break the shackles of global oppression**
**Agathangelou and Ling, 1997** (Anna M., Director of the Global Change Institute in Nicosia and Former Assistant Professor of Women’s Studies and Politics at Oberlin; L.H.M., Institute of Social Studies at the Hague, Studies in Political Economy, v54, Fall, p. 7-8)

Yet, ironically if not tragically, dissident IR also paralyzes itself into non- AND reconstruction, particulars from universals, and critical theory from problem-solving.

**Default to proximate causes – root cause theory is false**
**Sharpe 10**, lecturer, philosophy and psychoanalytic studies, and Goucher, senior lecturer, literary and psychoanalytic studies – Deakin University (Matthew and Geoff, Žižek and Politics: An Introduction, p. 231 – 233)

We realise that this argument, which we propose as a new ‘quilting’ framework AND today pointedly reject Theory’s legitimacy, neither reading it nor taking it seriously.

**Construction of threats does not cause wars**
**Kaufman 09** (Stuart J, Prof Poli Sci and IR – U Delaware, “Narratives and Symbols in Violent Mobilization: The Palestinian-Israeli Case,” Security Studies 18:3, 400 – 434)

Even when hostile narratives, group fears, and opportunity are strongly present, war AND and opportunity spur hostile attitudes, chauvinist mobilization, and a security dilemma.

**Reject alternatives that don’t specify an actor or a course of action causes 2NC shifts, can’t generate offense – also means no solvency**
Richard Wyn **Jones, 1999**, “Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory,” ciao

Because emancipatory political practice is central to the claims of critical theory, one might AND epistemological and methodological claims and thus that it is a fatally flawed enterprise.

**And, Reception-theory proves reps don’t “create reality”. Audiences are smart and reach their own conclusions.**
**Kraus ‘89** (et al – Sidney Kraus is a professor in the Department of Communication at Cleveland State University and Dennis Giles is also in the Department of Communication at Cleveland State University. Reviewed work(s): Constructing the Political Spectacle by Murray Edelman Source: Political Psychology, Vol. 10, No. 3 (Sep., 1989), pp. 517-525 Published by: International Society of Political Psychology Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3791366)

Edelman assumes (like the early Frankfurt School) that viewers/auditors AND from the "dominant" readings preferred by the political and media institutions.