[[toc]]

=Specific DCI Page= 

http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/DCI+Shenanigans+

=Affirmative= 
==Hydrogen 1AC - Broke Round 1 vs BVW @ Washburn Rural== 
===**Plan:**=== 

**The United States Department of Transportation and the Department of Energy will substantially increase its procurement of hydrogen vehicles and provide no-interest loans for the development fuel cell infrastructure in the United States. We’ll Clarify.**

===Adv. 1 – Warming=== 

**Warming is real and anthropogenic – skeptics ignore consensus and overwhelming evidence.**

**Suzuki 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David, Chair of the David Suzuki Foundation, PhD. In Zoology from U-Chicago, prof. of genetics at U of British Columbia, awarded by the Swedish parliament for climate change activism. “Science deals blow to deluded climate change deniers.” [[http://www.bclocalnews.com/opinion/98758379.html]]]</span>

**And, warming causes extinction – threshold is 2030.**

**Stein 8**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[David, science editor for The Canadian. The Stein is citing NASA data, American Association for the Advancement of Science in San Francisco, and numerous arctic scientists. “Global Warming Xtra: Scientists warn about Antarctic melting.” July 14, 2008.] BW</span>

**And, warming causes climate migration – spawns massive nuclear conflict.**

**Lee 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James R., American University’s Inventory of Conflict and Environment Project Leader, “Global Warming Is Just the Tip of the Iceberg.” The Washington Post, January 4, 2009. LexisNexis] BW</span>

**And, energy scarcity causes resource wars and extinction independently.**

**Lendman 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Centre for Research on Globalization research associate. “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?” June 6, 2011. http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm]</span>

**And, fuel cell infrastructure solves warming and resource conflict – leads to overall adoption of alt energy.**

**Ishida 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Masayoshi, University of Tsukuba. “Development of Hydrogen energy creation type fuel cell system and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ubiquitous hydrogen energy supply system.” http://www.hydricpower.co.jp/SBH_24_3.pdf ]</span>


===Adv. 2 – China=== 

**Global demand for energy will outpace supply – the key internal is China.**

**Wall Street Journal 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Energy Geopolitics to shift farther east: BP.” January 18, 2012.]</span>

**And, your disads are non-unique – indeterminancy in economics means that price collapse and contractions are inevitable.**

**Conraria and Wen 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[LuÌs Aguiar-Conraria NIPE, Economic Policies Research University of Minho, and Yi Wen,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. “A Note on Oil Dependence and Economic Instability.” July 30, 2007.]</span>

**And, the US must lead the way – causes market penetration of hydrogen infrastructure by 2020.**

**Song and Chen 2005**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professors of International Relations at Harbin Institute of Technology in China. “The political economy of nuclear energy.” 2005.]</span>

**And, oil shocks will derail China’s economy.**

**Robinson 5/10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gwen, Asia correspondent for the Financial Times. “UN: Asia at risk from eurozone, oil shock, trade wars, capital inflows…” May 5, 2012.]</span>

**And, Economic collapse causes a destabilizing nationalist uproar.**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">NY Times 2011</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">["China Threat" or a "Peaceful Rise of China"? 2011. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/ref/college/coll-china-politics-007.html]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**

**This causes nuclear war and extinction regardless of government prerogative – they’ll blame foreigners.**

**Fogg in 2006**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erik, MA in International Relations – MIT “The Chinese Nuclear Weapons Program and its Threat to the United States and Her Allies.” December 6, 2006. [[http://web.mit.edu/efogg/Public/chinanuclear.pdf]]</span>]

**And, nationalism kills Chinese soft power – animosity with foreigners.**

**New York Times 5/25**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[This one actually appeared in the paper. “Before China’s Transition, a Wave of Nationalism.” 2012. [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/26/world/asia/wave-of-chinese-nationalism-as-communist-leadership-change-looms.html?pagewanted=all]]]</span>

**And, Chinese soft power solves regional and global conflict – acts as a balancer and fills in political vacuums.**

**Xintian 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Yu, former President of Shanghai Institute for International Studies, Senior Fellow. “”]</span>

**And, China’s energy independence is key to stop Iran from belligerence and proliferation.**

**Fite 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Brandon, completed a BA in International Relations and History at USC, Graduate @ U-Chicago. “U.S. and Iranian Strategic Competition: The Impact of China and Russia.” March 2012.]</span>

**And, Iran war leads to extinction – global ethnic and religious conflict.**

**Ivashov 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Leonid. Analyst at the Strategic Culture Foundation. “Iran: The Threat of Nuclear War” The AP, 21 April 07.]</span>

===Solvency=== 

**The hydrogen renaissance is on the horizon – loans key.**

**Masters 4/12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Roger D. Masters is Research Professor at Dartmouth College. “Developments in Hydrogen Fuel.” March 12, 2012. [[http://cen.acs.org/articles/90/i11/Developments-Hydrogen-Fuel.html]]]</span>

**And, federal fleet procurement stimulates demand – causes market transition.**

**Black 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Edwin, Black is the award-winning, New York Times and international bestselling investigative author of 56 bestselling editions. June 23, 2008. http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=5&pageid=21&pagename=Energy]</span>

**And, no spending disads – plan is cost-neutral.**

**Cardona 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Johns Hopkins University - Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS.) “Harnessing Hydrogen: The Key to Sustainable Transportation.” 2012. [[http://www.informinc.org/xsum_hydrogen.php]]]</span>
**And, 10-15% market penetration solves – Only coordination can circumvent the chicken or egg stasis**

**Agnolucci 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ph. D in economics @ Birkbeck University, Senior Research Fellow @ Policy Studies Institute), “Hydrogen infrastructure for the transport sector,” International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 32 (2007) 3526 – 3544]</span>

**And, no oil disads – plan solves short-term fossil fuels while transitioning to alt energy – solves diversification.**

**FCHEA 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Fuel Cell Hydrogen Energy Association – Headed by a number of PhD’s in Public Policy, Chemestry, etc dedicated to hydrogen research. “The Hydrogen Economy.” 2012. [[http://www.fchea.org/core/import/PDFs/factsheets/The%20Hydrogen%20Economy_NEW.pdf]]]</span>
==Port Security 1AC (Broke at Hutch vs El Dorado McKibban and partner)== 
===**Observation 1: Inherency**=== 

**The SAFE Port act expired last fiscal year. It needs to be reauthorized but congress is too entropic.**

**Holdman 7/14**
[Eric is a member and Past President of the Washington State Emergency Management Association (WSEMA). He currently serves on the Advisory Council for the Center for Regional Disaster Resilience and the Pacific Northwest-Advanced National Seismic Safety Region Advisory Committee. Additionally, he is on the Advisory Board for the University of Washington's Masters in Strategic Planning for Critical Infrastructures. “SAFE Port Reauthorization Act.” July 14, 2012. http://www.emergencymgmt.com/emergency-blogs/disaster-zone/port-security/SAFE-Port-Reauthorization-Act-071412.html]
The SAFE Port legislation needs to be …inception and her leadership will be critical to the passage of any legislation.

**And, now is key – our ports can’t prevent bio-contingencies without the plan.**

**Frantz 7/15**
[Douglas Frantz, previously chief investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Managing Director of Kroll’s Business Intelligence Washington office, investigative reporter. 7/15/12, “Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]
The Obama administration has failed to meet a legal deadline … and many ports. And a single container can hold cargo from many customers.

===**Obsevation 2: Bio-Contingencies**=== 

**First, expect a biological attack by 2013.**

**Sharoff 2011**
[“Bioterrorism: Growing Threat, Inadequate Budget.” November 14, 2011. http://gppreview.com/2011/11/14/bioterrorism-growing-threat-inadequate-budget/] BW
Many officials who have reviewed classified intelligence … threat of biological terrorism was “growing.”

**And, the agent will be smuggled in by sea – that’s 95% of overseas shipping.**

**Anthony 2006**
[Hodges Anthony, Third Army deputy chief of staff, US Army Colleg. “AMERICA’S INTERNATIONAL PORTS AND INTERMODAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM: ILL-PREPARED FOR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.” March 2006. http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]
Maritime transportation depends on 361 … in the beautiful port cities that frame the continental United States.

**There's three scenarios**

**Scenario 1: Pandemics**

**Bio-attacks cause global pandemics in six weeks.**

**Levy 2007**
[Janet Ellen, staff writer for the The American Thinker. “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html] BW
Biological weapons are among the most dangerous … of millions.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."

**And, that is the most likely scenario for extinction.**

**Ochs 2002**
[Richard, MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] BW
Of all the weapons of mass destruction, … just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine.

**Scenario 2: Famine**

**Bioweapons threaten the agriculture sector – attacks would cause global food shortages.**

**Wefald et al 1999**
[Jon Wefald (Pretty sure he’s related to that Manhattan debater) president of K-State, along with R.W. Trewyn, Vice Provost For Research, Dean Of The Graduate School; Ralph C. Richardson, Dean Of Veterinary Medicine; Robert S. Zeigler, Head Of Plant Pathology, Director Of Plant Biotechnology; James L. Marsden, Regents’ Distinguished Professor Of Meat Science; and Jerry P. Jaax, University Research Compliance Officer. “AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS THREAT.” 1999.] BW

The importance of protecting our food crops, … introduced inadvertently into southern Brazil in 1996.

**And, famine on that scale wipes out 95% of humanity.**

**Adams 8**
[staff writer for naturalnews.com. April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population.”,http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]
So, to repeat, the food bubble is now … is just one crop season away from mass starvation.

**Scenario 3: Panic**

**Bioterror causes global panic resulting in isolationism, militarism, and micalc.**

**Garret 2001**
[Laurie Garrett is a Pulitzer Prize-winning science and medical writer for Newsday. This article is adapted from her new book, Betrayal of Trust: The Collapse of Global Public Health. Copyright (c) 2000 by Laurie Garrett. Published by Hyperion. “The Nightmare of Bioterrorism.” Foreign Affairs. January/Febuary 2001. http://www.psci.unt.edu/jbooks/TerrorBib_files/CBRN%20Terrorism/Garrett-The%20Nightmare%20of%20Bioterrorism.pdf]
Since smallpox was officially eradicated in 1977, … is the harsh reality [of] what would happen."

**And, this panic-driven militarization only leads to conflict and extinction.**

**Chernus 2001**
[Ira, PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER,
“FIGHTING TERROR IN THE NATIONAL INSECURITY STATE,” http://spot.colorado.edu/~chernus/WaronTerrorismEssays/FightingTerror.htm]
In the national insecurity state, stability depends … only terrorists, not innocent civilians, attacked.

===**Observation 3: Human Trafficking**=== 

**US ports are in the crux of trafficking – we’re central in the market.**

**Schrock and Finckenauer 2001**
[James O. Finckenauer and Jennifer Schrock International Center National Institute of Justice. “Human Trafficking: A Growing Criminal Market in the U.S.” 2001. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/218462.pdf]
Globally, the main smuggling pipelines … smugglers using both the East and West coasts (Nardi, 1999).

**And, trafficking is the biggest internal link to AIDS spread – causes the disease to be a pandemic.**

**Burkhalter 03**
[Holly Burkhalter, Physicians for Human Rights Before the House International Relations Committee http://physiciansforhumanrights.org/library/2003-06-25.html.]
Vulnerability of Trafficked Women and Girls to HIV/AIDS: If women and girls are more vulnerable to the disease because of political, social, and cultural inequality, those most at risk are surely … incorporated into campaigns to confront the pandemic: eliminating sex trafficking.

**The AIDS pandemic leads to extinction.**

**The South Asian 2004**
[Provided by UNAIDS, “AIDS - a Growing Epidemic,” http://www.the-south-asian.com/Jan%202004/aids_a_growing_epidemic_1.htm]
The World Health Organization (WHO) has organized the "3x5" campaign whose goal is to make it possible for 3 millions persons infected by HIV/AIDS to receive the latest treatments by 2005.
"HIV/AIDS has become the biggest threat …lack of self-worth and despair for people living with HIV.

===**Thus the plan:**=== 
**The president of the United States of America should increase port security, explicitly in chemical and biological profiling, by issuing a classified national security directive restoring, via the National Security Council, the budget for Port Security Grant Program. We’ll clarify.**

===**Observation 4: Solvency**=== 

**The Port Security Grant Program is key meet key infrastructure threats.**

**Holmes 2012**
[John M., Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles, Testimony Before The United States House of Representatives, Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency –Director and State & Local Witnesses” http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]

Since 9/11, port security has become a top priority for … in our efforts to build a resilient port, and we would hate to see a ¶ degradation of these efforts as a result of grant funding reductions.

**And, the plan is key to recommitting to biological profiling 100% of cargo – with no loss of effectiveness.**

**Staples 2006**
[Edward J. Staples has a Ph.D. in solid-state physics and electronics from Southern Methodist University and is a co-inventor of the zNose, 2/1/06, “Portable Chemical Profiling” www.sensorsmag.com/sensors/chemical-gas/portable-chemical-profiling-720?page_id=3]
The U.S. now inspects 4% of the 6 million shipments …. provide a cost-effective screening tool for shippers and inspectors alike.

**And, the fed is key – only it can deal with international trade and has the manpower to implement.**

**AAPA 2012**
[American Association of Port Authorities, represents over 150 port authority organizations throughout the Western Hemisphere, 3/7/12, “Testimony of Captain John M. Holmes”, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]

Moving the funding to the states is … program to ensure that funding for port security is not diluted further.

**And, security directives ignore congressional bureaucracy – avoids the legislative process.**

**CRS 2011**
[The National Security Council: An Organizational Assessment Richard A. Best Jr. Specialist in National Defense January 20, 2011 . Congressional Research Service. Accessed online.]
As part of the Executive …of State has left Presidents subject to strong criticism.


===**Observation 5: Risk Calculus**=== 

**A major nuclear war would still leave about 9/10 of the world’s population intact.**

**Martin 1982**
[Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4. 1982. http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)
To summarise the above points, a major global nuclear war …nine-tenths of the world's population, most of them unaffected physically by the nuclear war.

**And, nuclear taboo will always prevent escalation.**

**Quester 2005**
[George Quester, Professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland, Spring 2005. Naval War College Review. “If the Nuclear Taboo gets broken.” https://portal.nwc.navy.mil/press/Naval%20War%20College%20Review/2005/Article%20by%20Quester%20Spring%202005.pdf]

**The taboo on nuclear weapons use that … are not used again in anger, arguably strengthens the taboo.**

**And, limited exchanges mean nothing.**

**Bostrom 2002**
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2002 (“Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Volume 9, Number 1, Available Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)
There was a real worry among … are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

**And, bioweapons proliferation causes our impacts to snowball.**

**Koblentz 2004**
[Gregory Koblentz, is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Public and International Affairs and Deputy Director of the Biodefense Graduate Program at George Mason University, he is an Associate Faculty at the Center for Global Studies at George Mason University, and he is a Research Affiliate with the Security Studies Program at MIT, at the time he was a doctoral candidate in political science at MIT, Winter 2003/04 “Pathogens as Weapons: The International Security Implications of Biological Warfare” http://belfercenter.hks.harvard.edu/files/koblentz.pdf)
Preventing the spread of biological warfare capabilities to … to acquire these weapons.

**And, their impact defense means nothing – their authors are in denial.**

**Korpi and Hemmer 2004**
[Tanja Korpi, JD from College of William and Mary, Chief Justice of W&M Law’s Court team. Hemmer, associate professor of International Security studies @ Air War College. Former assistant professer at Cornell and Colgate. “Avoiding Panic and Keeping the Ports Open in a Chemical and Biological Threat Environment.” The Counterproliferation Papers, Future Warfare Series No. 30. Pg. 4]
A number of maladaptive reactions have been … prevent danger from becoming salient in the minds of individuals.

**And, public health is a moral side constraint – an ounce of prevention outweighs a pound of cure.**

**Rugy and Pena 2002**
[ Veronique de Rugy is a policy analyst and Charles V. Peña is a senior defense policy analyst at the Cato Institute. “Responding to the Threat of Smallpox Bioterrorism.” April 2002.] BW
As a result, the chances of a successful … pound of cure will work after the fact.

==RLV's 1AC - Broke Round 1 vs SMC EK @ Pittsburg== 
===Observation 1: Status Quo=== 
**A. NASA’s budget is getting cut – the only program it will be able to fund is the Space Launch System or SLS.**
**USA Today 7/27**

[“For NASA, There’s No Liftoff From Politics.” July 27, 2012. http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/columnist/vergano/story/2012-07-28/nasa-politics/56542592/1]
**B. SLS will drive up transportation costs for shuttles and be catastrophic for NASA.**
**Strickland 2011**

[John, Jr is a member, at large board member, and Awards Committee chair for the National Space Society, and an Advocate with the Space Frontier Foundation. “The SLS: too expensive for exploration?” November 28, 2011. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1979/1]

===Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in spaceports by investing in reusable space launch infrastructure.**
===Observation 2: Solvency=== 

**A. Space missions require smaller, reusable launch vehicles – these will drive down costs and are less susceptible to failure.**
**Bonin 2011**

[Grant, Proffessor of Aerospace Engineering @ the University of British Columbia. “The case for smaller launch vehicles in human space exploration.” January 9, 2011. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/529/1]

**B. RLV’s are critical to new forms of space flight.**
**Collins 2011**

[Dr. Patrick Collins, professor of economics at Azabu University in Japan, and a Collaborating Researcher with the Institute for Space & Astronautical Science, as well as adviser to a number of companies. http://www.spacefuture.com/vehicles/designs.shtml 8/13 /2011]
===Advantage 1: Space Leadership=== 
**A. US space leadership is failing due to lack of vision.**
**Posey 9/20**

[Florida Representative to Congress. “America's Mission in Space.” 2012. http://posey.house.gov/issues/issue/?IssueID=4609]

**B. New launch infrastructure is a fantastic engine for job creation and economic growth.**
**Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11**

[Mária Zulick Nucci is an attorney, licensed to practice in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She also is admitted in several federal jurisdictions. Her practice focuses on federal and state appellate litigation. Joanne Irene Gabrynowicz is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law; professor of space law and remote sensing law; Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law; and a Director of the International Institute of Space Law. She can be contacted at jgabryno@ olemiss.edu. 10 The Issue Is: What Is a Spaceport? The Air & Space Lawyer Volume 24, No. 1, 2011. http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/Forums/Airspace/MO/MemberDocuments/air_space_24_1.authcheckdam.pdf]

**C. RLV’s will lift us out of the global depression.**
**Hsu and Cox 09**

[Feng, Ph.D. Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, Ken, Ph.D.

Founder & Director Aerospace Technology Working Group, 2-20, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]

**D. US economic growth and technological superiority is necessary to prevent hostile rivals from rising.**
**Khalizad 2011**

[Zalmay, PhD from University of Chicago in IR and former Ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN. “The Economy and National Security.” February 8, 2011. http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]

**E. US scientific leadership is necessary for global scientific development. Science holds the key to every major problem.**
**Turekian 2010**

[Vaughan Turekian, Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science. “Science Diplomacy And The Prevention Of Conflict.” Feb 4, 2010. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]

**F. Space is the best way to solve scientific diplomacy. The most innovative technologies come from space applications.**
**Hauser and John 2009**

[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]

**G. Space leads develops the biotech industry.**
**Clement and Bukley, 6**

[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]

**H. Biotech saves lives – it’s necessary to fight diseases.**
**Hall 2007**

[Linley Erin, The Rosen Publishing Group, “Careers in Biotechnology” http://careers.stateuniversity.com/pages/100000824/Bright-Future-Lingering-Controversies-Controversies-in-Health-Care-Biotechnology.html]

**I. Disease spread threatens humanity – we must develop new ways to treat pandemics.**
**Yu 2009**

[Victoria, 5/22/09, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate.” Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science. http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate. Citing the CDC and R. Calsbeek, a lecturer at Dartmouth]

===Advantage 2: Diplomacy=== 

**A. Space leadership key to diplomatic power, also known as soft power.**
**Logston 2007**

[John, professor of polisci at George Washington, former director the Space Policy Institute. High Frontier, The Journal for Space & Missile Professionals. Volume 3, Number 2, March 2007.]

**B. Establishing launch infrastructure will dramatically improve cooperation between nations and help to develop international law and the outer space treaty.**
**Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11**

**C. International law is necessary in preventing arms races and war in outer space.**
**Englehart 2008**

[Alex B. Englehart, contributor to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal at the University of Washington School of Law, January 2008, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS”, Pacific Rim Law and Policy Journal, Vol. 17, Num. 1, p.133-157]

**D. Chinese space capabilities and military buildup make them the most likely scenario for a space conflict**
**Pentagon March 2008**

http://www.military.com/NewsContent/0,13319,163291,00.html

**E. Space conflicts would be the most destructive ever.**
**Mitchell 2001**

[Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”,http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf]

**F. International cooperation is necessary to deal with the threat of space debris.**
**Rose 2011**

[Frank A., Deputy Assistant Secretary for the DoS, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance. “Leading With Diplomacy to Strengthen Stability in Space.” Nov 17, 2011. http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/177306.htm]

**G. Space debris threatens triggering early warning satellites and causing accidental war.**
**Lewis ‘4**

[Jeffrey Lewis - postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy. He previously worked in the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy. “WHAT IF SPACE WERE WEAPONIZED?” July 2004 http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]
==Mississippi River 1AC - Broke Round 2 vs. lol idk (lay)== 
===**Observation 1: Harms and Inherency**=== 

**Army Corps of Engineers projects are failing because of major funding shortfalls – the Mississippi River is increasingly at risk.**

**IRPT 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Inland Rivers and Port Termanals Association. “Mississippi River White Paper.” 2012. http://www.irpt.net/pdf/MissRiverWhitePaper.pdf]</span>

===**Plan**=== 

**The United States Army Corp. of Engineers will substantially increase funding for transportation infrastructure projects along the Mississippi River including river realignment, dredging, and maintenance. We’ll clarify**
===**Solvency**=== 

**A. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund has an $8 billion dollar surplus – allows us to implement the plan without deficit spending.**

**Szakonyi 9/15**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark Szakonyi, Associate Editor of the Journal of Commerce. “Bipartisan Senate Group Urges Full Use of HMT for Dredging.” August 15, 2012. [[http://www.joc.com/international-trade-news/infrastructure-news/bipartisan-senate-group-urges-full-use-hmt-dredging_20120815.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Acting Director Jeffrey Zients.</span>

**B. The plan must happen immediately – it solves both biodiversity and economic loss.**

**Canfield et all 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Canfield Vice President Gulf Coast Conservation/Mississippi Flyway National Audubon Society. Ken Dancak, Ph.D. President Louisiana Wildlife Federation. Karen Gautreaux, Director of Governmental Relations The Nature Conservancy, Louisiana. Paul Harrison Senior Director for the Mississippi River Environmental Defense Fund. Susan Kaderka South Central Regional Executive Director National Wildlife Federation. John Lopez, Ph.D. Executive Director Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation. Steven Peyronnin Executive Director Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana. “Mississippi River Delta Restoration Campaign.” Feb 25, 2012. http://www.mississippiriverdelta.org/files/2012/01/2012-Louisiana-Comprehensive-Master-Plan-MRD-Campaign-Comments.pdf]</span>

===**ADV 1: Trade**=== 

**There are two internal links to trade collapse:**

**First, the midwest drought caused a massive decrease in water levels – it will cause Mississippi river traffic to come to a halt in early December of this year.**

**FarmFutures 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Farm Futures is a periodical business magazine for farmland investors. It cites The American Waterways Operators and Waterways Council. “Waterway Groups Urge Action On Potential Mississippi River Closure.” 8/9/2012. [[http://farmfutures.com/story.aspx/waterway-groups-urge-action-potential-mississippi-river-closure-17/64884]]]</span>

**Second, the Mississippi Rivers will shift in the coming years absent an increase in infrastructure – this has a 100% geological inevitability and kills all export sectors.**

**Lewis 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas A., adjunct professor of Department of Mass Communication Frostburg State University. “Mississippi Rising: Apocalypse Now?” April 28, 2011. [[http://www.dailyimpact.net/2011/04/28/mississippi-rising-apocalypse-now/]]]</span>

**I’ll isolate two scenarios:**

**Scenario 1: Competitiveness**

**A. The status quo would see the US lose its economic competitiveness – the plan would double our export capacity**

**IRPT 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Inland Rivers and Port Termanals Association. “Mississippi River White Paper.” 2012. [[http://www.irpt.net/pdf/MissRiverWhitePaper.pdf]]]</span>

**B. The US is uniquely key to global growth and conflict prevention.**

**Khalizad 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Zalmay, PhD from University of Chicago in IR and former Ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN. “The Economy and National Security.” February 8, 2011. [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]]</span>

**C. Economies are interdependent – the ripple effect causes war. History is on our side.**

**Harris and Burrows 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit. “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis.” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pf]]]</span>

**Scenario 2: Agriculture**
**A. The Mississippi River is the crux of US global agriculture exports.**

**Kruse 2004**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Ag-Economics Professor @ Mizzou, PhD. “Testimony on the Value of the Mississippi River for</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Agriculture.” July 8, 2004. http://www.fapri.missouri.edu/outreach/publications/2004/FAPRI_UMC_Briefing_Paper_06_04.pdf]</span>

**B. US is key to global food supply – collapse threatens 95% of the global population.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 2008</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Staff writer for naturalnews.com. April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population.”http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]</span>

===**ADV 2: Biodiversity**=== 

**A. Failing infrastructure is causing massive biodiversity loss. Three reasons:**
**First, levee and channel closure destroy the Atchafalaya Basin diversity.**

**Caillouet 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Charles R. Caillouet, Jr., President, FOA Board of Directors. June 19, 2012. “About the Atchafalaya Basin.” http://www.basinbuddies.org/news/?page_id=611]</span>

**Second, lack of Asian carp infrastructure kills great lakes diversity.**

**Egan and Stein 10/12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dan Egan and Jason Stein of the Journal Sentinel, Pulitzer Prize winner. “Romney 'outraged' by Army Corps' speed on Asian carp plan.” October 12, 2012.]</span>
**Third, disruption of sedentary deposits destroys wetlands.**

**Batker 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David Batker (Chief Economist and Executive Director) completed his graduate training in economics under Herman Daly, one of the world's foremost ecological economists. Dave has taught in the Training Department of the World Bank, and has worked for Greenpeace International, specializing in trade and international finance. “Wetlands, Hurricanes and the Economy: The Value of Restoring the Mississippi River Delta.” 2010.]</span>
**B. Mississippi river collapse decimates global biodiversity.**

**Rabalais et al 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nancy, Dr. Rabalais is the Executive Director and a Professor with the Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium (LUMCON). “Beyond Science into Policy: Gulf of Mexico Hypoxia and the Mississippi River.” 2002.]</span>

**C. Dredging is necessary for ecosystem sustainability.**

**PIANC 5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[PIANC is the forum where professionals around the world join forces to provide expert advice on cost-effective, reliable and sustainable infrastructures to facilitate the growth of waterborne transport. “Dredging: The Facts.”http://www.dredging.org/documents/ceda/downloads/publications-dredging_the_facts.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">D. Biodiversity is necessary for human survival.</span>

**Coyne 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jerry Coyne, Professor of Ecology at UChicago and Hopi Hoekstra, Professor of Biology at Harvard. August 24, 2007. http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying]</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">E. Mississippi Biodiversity produces an outsized number of benefits – quantitative studies prove that the plan is cost-effective.</span>

**Rabalais et al 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nancy, Dr. Rabalais is the Executive Director and a Professor with the Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium (LUMCON). “Beyond Science into Policy: Gulf of Mexico Hypoxia and the Mississippi River.” 2002.]</span>


=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===LOST Politics=== 
**A. Bipartisan support for LOST now—opposition in the senate could prevent passage.**

**Block 6/7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben, Staff writer for the Worldwatch Institute. June 7, 2012.]</span>

**B. Plan costs political capital. [insert link]**

**C. Senate leaders need capital to pass LOST.**

**CFR 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The National Interest and the Law of the Sea.” May 2009.]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">D. An attack on US ports is likely before 2015 – they must be secured.</span>**

**Parfomak and Frittelli 07**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Maritime Security: Potential Terrorist Attacks and Protection Priorities Updated May 14, 2007 Paul W. Parfomak and John Frittelli Resources, Science, and Industry Division. CRS Report for Congress. Online.]</span>

**E. Port attacks causes economic collapse and extinction**

**James 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Morgan, Naval Postgraduate School. “Port Security Strategy 20072012.”</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf]</span>

**F. Lost solves port and maritime security concerns, the economy, and the environment.**

**Panetta 5/9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Leon, Defense Secretary (Damn straight.) “Forum on the Law of the Sea.” May 9, 2012.]</span>
===Russia Oil=== 
**A. Oil is projected to remain high and Russian growth and leadership is strong, yet subject to falling prices.**

**Forbes 8/16/12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Russia's Economy is Still Growing Faster than Every EU Country.” HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/sites/markadomanis/2012/08/16/russias-economy-is-still-growing-faster-than-every-eu-country/" http://www.forbes.com/sites/markadomanis/2012/08/16/russias-economy-is-still-growing-faster-than-every-eu-country/]</span>

**B. Switching to alternative energy causes OPEC to flood the market which causes market instability**

**ETS 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Petro-politics Expert Marcel: Saudis Have Oil But Not Enough; OPEC May Flood Market To Hurt New Techs.” January 28, 2008. ]</span>

**C. Russia can’t compete with OPEC – major price drops will devastate Russian growth and stability.**

**Forbes 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Oil A Problem For Russian Economy, Official Says.” April 3, 2012. ]</span>

**D. Collapse in Russian growth causes Russian civil war - destabilizes Asia and leads to extinction.**

**David 1999**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven David, political scientist and writer for Foreign Affiairs. January/February 1999. ]</span>
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sequestration</span>=== 
**1. Sequestration cuts are coming – congress can prevent them from wiping the budget but only if congress and the president work together.**

**Bloomberg 9/20**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[#1 Business Magazine. “Periscope Maker Closes as Small Vendors Near Fiscal Cliff.” 2012]</span>

**2. Transportation bills cause budget battles when they should be focusing on fiscal issues.**

**Freemark 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” January 25th, 2012. http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum]</span>

**3. We only have a few months to reign in spending—new spending kills meaningful reform.**

**Cassatta 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Donna, staff writer for the Huffington Post. “Super Committee Automatic Spending Cut Triggers May Be Blocked By Congress .” November 24, 2011. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/21/super-committee-deadline-automatic-cuts-triggers_n_1104994.html]]]</span>

**4. Sequestration decimates the economy – jobs, GDP, international clout**

**McKeon et al 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Oct 26 2011. [[http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/hearings-display?ContentRecord_id=bdb509d6-40c7-4a3e-a9e6-1520e4873d93&ContentType_id=14f995b9-dfa5-407a-9d35-56cc7152a7ed&Group_id=41030bc2-0d05-4138-841f-90b0fbaa0f88&MonthDisplay=10&YearDisplay=2011|Economic Consequences of Defense Sequestration]] Chairman Buck McKeon. Mr. Martin Feldstein George F. Baker Professor of Economics, Harvard University President Emeritus, National Bureau of Economic Research. Dr. Stephen Fuller Faculty Chair and University Professor, George Mason University Director, Center for Regional Analysis at the School of Public Policy. Dr. Peter Morici Professor of International Business Robert H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland Director of Economics at the United States International Trade Commission [[http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/hearings-display?ContentRecord_id=bdb509d6-40c7-4a3e-a9e6-1520e4873d93&Statement_id=f617212b-d0c0-4d0f-aac6-e54238c590b1&ContentType_id=14f995b9-dfa5-407a-9d35-56cc7152a7ed&Group_id=41030bc2-0d05-4138-841f-90b0fbaa0f88&MonthDisplay=10&YearDisplay=2011]]]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5. Economic collapse causes nuclear war - extinction</span>**


**Kerpen 8**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Phil, National Review Online. October 29, 2008. “Don't Turn Panic Into Depression.” http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2008/10/29/opinion/main4555821.shtml]</span>

===Fiscal Cliff (Replaced Sequestration after Turkey Day)=== 

**A. Congress will compromise on fiscal cliff at the last moment – experts agree.**



**ISU 11/30/12**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Iowa State University Article. “Experts expect compromise to avoid fallout from the 'fiscal cliff'.” http://phys.org/news/2012-11-experts-compromise-fallout-fiscal-cliff.html] BW</span>



**B. Transportation bills trade off with budget reduction – triggers the fiscal cliff.**



**Freemark 2012**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” January 25th, 2012. http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum] BW</span>



**C. We only have a few months to reign in spending—new spending kills meaningful reform.**



**Cassatta 2011**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Donna, staff writer for the Huffington Post. “Super Committee Automatic Spending Cut Triggers May Be Blocked By Congress .” November 24, 2011. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/21/super-committee-deadline-automatic-cuts-triggers_n_1104994.html]]] BW</span>



**D. That would spark a global economic catastrophe.**



**Jordier 9/25**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marc, reporter for AFP. “The fiscal cliff threatens to push the US and others into crisis.” http://www.chinapost.com.tw/international/americas/2012/11/25/362017/The-fiscal.htm] BW</span>



**E. Economic collapse causes nuclear war - extinction**



**Kerpen 2008**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Phil, National Review Online. October 29, 2008. “Don't Turn Panic Into Depression.” http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2008/10/29/opinion/main4555821.shtml] BW</span>
===Fisc Disc=== 

**Fiscal cliff will force congress to compromise on spending cuts.**

**Washington Post 7/18**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Washington Post. July 18, 2012. http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2012/jul/18/coalition-aims-to-head-off-debt-disaster/]</span>

**And, infrastructure is costly and empirically leads to cost over-runs with overstated economic benefits.**

**Edwards 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris, Director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute. “Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It.” http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it]</span>

**And, lack of fiscal discipline causes China to liquidate US bonds**

**CNN 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“China: The new landlord of the U.S.” January 18, 2011. [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/01/18/news/international/thebuzz/index.htm]]]</span>

**And, that collapses the economy – it’s comparatively worse than a nuclear strike.**

**Williams 2004**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ian, senior staff writer for the Asia Times, “China-US: Double bubbles in danger of colliding,” Asia Times, 1/23/04, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/FA23Dj01.html]]]</span>

**And, that triggers global nuclear war and extinction.**

**Merlini 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome. He served as IAI president from 1979 to 2001. Until 2009, he also occupied the position of executive vice chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, which he co-founded in 1983. His areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology. “A Post-Secular World?” Journal Survival, Volume 53, Issue 2 April 2011 , pages 117 - 130 Publication. P.117 – 130]</span>
==Counterplans== 
===State Financing CP=== 
**CP Text: The United States Congress should give states flexibility to pursue alternative financing sources, specifically public-private partnerships, tolling and user fees, and low-cost borrowing through innovative credit and bond programs for purposes of [THE PLAN]**

**The CP is critical to enhance state revenue streams**

**//Gorton and Sabo 12//**
Slade Gorton is a former senator from Washington. Martin Sabo is a former representative from Minnesota. They served as co-chairmen of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s National Transportation Policy Project. Politico, 3-7, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0312/73714.html

===Protocols CP=== 
**The United States federal government should develop international protocols to prevent terrorism by:**
**1) Negotiating bilateral security agreements between nations with ‘high-risk’ terrorist potential.**
**2) Ratifying the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.**
**3) Strengthening its commitment to the international Proliferation Security Initiative.**

**The Net Benefit is Multilateral Cooperation:**

**Domestic port security policies they encourage competition and hinder cooperation. This can cause widespread conflict.**

**McQuaid 2009**
[Julia V. McQuaid is a senior research scientist in the International Affairs Group. “Maritime Security: Strengthening International¶ and Interagency Cooperation.” August 2009. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA506163]]]

**And, the PSI works to strengthen domestic laws through cooperation.**

**Congressional Research Service 2012**
[June 15, 2012. “Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI.)” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34327.pdf]

**LOST is the best mechanism for solving maritime security – it ensures global cooperation and conflict prevention.**

**McQuaid 2009**
[Julia V. McQuaid is a senior research scientist in the International Affairs Group. “Maritime Security: Strengthening International¶ and Interagency Cooperation.” August 2009. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA506163]]]

===China FDI CP=== 
**The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government _ with those funds.**

**Richter 2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center. He's a Juris Doctorate @ University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN. He was a North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry.“Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist. March 16, 2011. http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]</span>

==Criticisms== 
===Lacan Critique=== 

**Link—Their scenarios of simulated war and destruction fuel the symbolic order of the Real. This virtual reality replaces actuality and creates a compulsion to repeat erratic events—turning the case.**

**Zizek 2k2**
[Slavoj, professor of philo and psychoanalysis @ European graduate school. 2002. “Welcome to the Desert of the Real.” P. 14] BW

**And, infrastructure investment is a form of spatial planning that only seeks to include the Other for neoliberal globalization. This violent form of relation subjugates the other and makes it fundamentally impossible to challenge the system of power.**

**Gunder 2010**
[Michael Gunder is a Senior planning lecturer in the School of Architecture and Planning at the University of Auckland, and is a past president of the New Zealand Planning Institute. He has a BA, MA and PhD in Planning. “Planning as the ideology of (neoliberal) space.” May 10, 2010.] BW

**Implication—This creates a totalitarian semblance where we believe that change is possible but are unable to become agents of change.**

**Zizek 2**
[Slajov, senior researcher at the University of Ljubljana and professor of phsycho-analysis @European Graduate School . Welcome To The Desert of the Real. Pg. 2] BW

**Therefore, we present the alt: a negative ballot rejects the politics of the Real and instead urges the act of traversing the social fantasy by identifying with the Other and abandoning ego-formation. This rips the meaning from the symbolic order.**

**Stavrakakis 99**
[Yannis Stavrakakis, Fellow @ University of Essex. Lacan And The Political: Thinking The Politics. 1999. P. 133] BW

==Strats/Intel== 
===Washburn Rural DCI=== 

**__Round 2 vs Maize MR (Mass Transit Racism)__**
1nc- Lacan K, NEPA CP, Case
2nr- Lacan, Case

**__Round 4 vs Shawnee Mission East RT (Carbon Pipelines)__**
1nc- T-Transportation, Sequestration Adv CP, Earthquakes DA, Case turns
2nr- CP, Earthquakes, Case

**__Round 6 vs Shawnee Mission West DR (PPP Rail Electrification)__**
1nc- Lacan, Tax Credits CP, Politics, Sequestration DA, Case
2nr- Lacan

===Hutchinson DCI=== 

__**Round 2 vs Maize MR (Mass Transit Racism)**__
1nc- Lacan, NEPA CP, Case
2nr- NEPA CP, Case

**__Round 3 vs Wichita East LV (Guam)__**
1nc- XO CP, Sequestration DA, Politics, Case defense
2nr- XO CP, Politics

**__Quarters vs Blue Valley Southwest LS (Freight Rail)__**
1nc- Russia Oil, Uniform Act CP, Sequestration DA, Case
2nr- Uniform Act CP, Sequestration

===Blue Valley West DCI=== 

__**Round 2 vs Free State (Port Dredging)**__
1NC- China Fund CP, Elections Politics, Case
2NR- China Fund CP, Elections

__**Round 4 vs Blue Valley North (Port Dredging)**__
1NC- China Fund CP, Elections Politics, Case
2NR- China Fund CP, Elections, Turns on the Brazil Agriculture Adv

===Pittsburg (Local/SKNFL Circuit)=== 

__**Round 2 vs Free State (NIB)**__
1NC- Sequestration, Case
2NR- Sequestration, Case

__**Round 3 vs Fort Scott GK (NIB)**__
1NC- Sequestration, Case
2NR- Sequestration, Case

__**Quarters vs Saint Mary's-Pittsburg Colgan (Reverseable Highway Medians)**__
1NC- States, Sequestration, Case
2NR- States, Sequestration, Case

__**Finals vs Caney (Natives)**__
1NC- T-Substantial, States CP, Sequestration, Case
2NR- States, Sequestration, Case

===Caney (Local Again)=== 

**__Round 2 vs Pittsburgh D? (Roundabouts)__**
1NC- State Financing CP, Fisc Disc DA, Case
2NR- All

**__Round 4 vs i don't remember__**
1NC- ??
2NR- ??

**__Quarters vs Winfield (Hycrete)__**
1NC- Topicality-Sub, State Financing CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR- CP, DA, Case

===Maize DCI=== 

**__Round 1 vs Washburn Rural KY__**
1NC- State Financing CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR- All

**__Round 2 vs .BVSW ??__**
1NC- State Financing CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR- All
===Niffles @ Pittsburg=== 

__**Round 1 vs Derby ?? (Port Security)**__
1NC- Protocols CP, Competition DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR- Protocols CP, Competition DA, Case

**__Round 3 vs Pittsburg DM (HSR)__**
1NC- State Financing, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NC- Topicality-Increase (LOL)
2NR- All

**__Round 5 vs Pittsburg HM (MIssissippi River OREC)__**
1NC- State Financing, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR- All

===State @ Tonganoxie=== 

**__Round 1 vs Ft Scott (Natives)__**
1NC- State Financing CP, Sequester Politics, Assimilation DA, Case
1NR- Politics, Case

**__Round 3 vs Nickerson ?? (Freight Security)__**
1NC- Protocols CP, Sequester, Case
2NR- All