[[toc]]
=Return to Home Page= 

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan|Return to Home Page]]

[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Affirmative|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Affirmative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Counterplans|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Counterplans]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Disadvantages|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Disadvantages]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Past 2NRs|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Past 2NRs]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Topicality|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Topicality]]

=Kritiks= 

==8 Minutes Hate== 
===1NC Shell=== 

**We’ll call our argument the 8 Minutes Hate.**

**We begin with a passage from the first chapter of George Orwell’s pivotal work—1984, published in 1949:**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The next moment a hideous, grinding speech, as of some monstrous machine...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">it was exactly at this moment that the significant thing happened -- if, indeed, it did happen.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">**Orwell’s narrative serves as a political allegory for the 1AC. The insecurities cited by the affirmative are not unique; international terrorism is in our neighborhoods and there might just be poison in our children’s Halloween candy. The uncomfortable truth is that uncertainty and risk are part and parcel of human life. Rather than coming to terms with this, the affirmative encourages us to stay glued to the television screen, stocking up on duct tape and water. At issue here is not just life itself but what makes life valuable. We encourage indifference and carelessness in a world inherently characterized by insecurity in an attempt to reclaim joy from the affirmative’s world of paranoid tiptoeing.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">James </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Der Derian 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> is a Watson Institute research professor of international studies (Brown University), 1993, The Political Subject of Violence, (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html]]</span>), </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nietzsche</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security through a genealogy</span>...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to accord the tribe new advantages and new strength</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

**Catastrophe is inevitable. The worst possible catastrophe is a world where we put life on hold for a lifelong emergency. Only the vision of post-catastrophic world where we have looked death in the eye allows us to retroactively think different about the present and our relation to catastrophe. In other words, their impacts are inevitable and their orientation shatters any value to life. This answers all possible offense—it’s not a question of how big their impacts are it’s a question of how we approach the idea of disaster.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zizek 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, General badass and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Slovenia, (Slavoj, Puppet and the Dwarf, MIT Press p. 159-66)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">This, perhaps, is also the most important ethics lesson of the twentieth century...being able to avoid the difficult task of committing appendix.</span>


**Instead of endorsing the aff, we should just __say no__. Our discursive dissent is a critical starting point for breaking down the linkage of security and the state that makes fear based politics possible: by ridiculing the aff’s fear-mongering, we can exploit the aporias of security and create an ethical world.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, School of Political Science and International Studies at University of Queensland (Anthony, “Aporias of Security,” //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political// 1(27), Infotrac OneFile, Accessed Sept 7 2005)</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Refusing Security It is perhaps easy to become despondent...what its shimmering possibilities might be.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AT: Framework </span>=== 

**Their top-level, glossy impact scenarios ignore personal responsibilities to end institutional violence**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kappeler 95</span>** (Susanne, Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour, pg. 10-11)



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">‘We are the war’ does not mean that the responsibility</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">structures and the values of war and violence.</span>


**And – ontology is the __foundation__ of international relations**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dillon 99</span>** (Michael, Prof. Politics and IR @ University of Lancaster, “The scandal of the refugee,” in Global ethics, edited by D. Campbell and M.J. Shapiro, Minnesota U Press, pp. 92-124)



<span style="font-size: 12px;">The question of </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">ontologywas</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">not only reposed...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">foundations upon which that ar­chitecture is itself based</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>


===AT: Perm=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The perm gets coopted and destroys agency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bilgin 2005</span>** – PROF IR BIKENT UNIVERSITY
//REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE//, <span style="color: #000000;">PAGE 203</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Overall, Part II sought to advance the aims of the book</span>...<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">but not from the perspective of regional actors.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The impact is unending violence.</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beres 94</span>__**(Louis Rene, Professor of International Law @ Purdue University, 11 Ariz. J. Int'l & Comp. Law 1, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, SELF-DETERMINATION, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND SURVIVAL ON PLANET EARTH)



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">What do we really seek in world affairs?</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">moral torment to which all of us today are exposed." 21</span>

**The perm oscillates between realism and idealism – that makes critique impossible and violence inevitable.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Walker 97</span>** (RBJ, Prof. Poli. Sci. @ U of Victoria, editor of //Alternatives//, “Critical Security Studies,” edited by Keith Krause and Michael Williams, p. 73-75)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">State sovereignty defines what peace can be and where peace</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">modern politics has always teetered critically on the edge.</span>
==The Burrow== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**We first read an excerpt from the story entitled "The Burrow" by Franz Kafka, first written in 1923.**

**Basic notions of “the environment” are constructed through cultural practices designed to legitimize management of human and non-human populations.**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Timothy W.</span> **Luke**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, Professor of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic University,</span> **1999** <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[“Environmentality as Green Governmentality,”</span> //<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Discourses on the Environment</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, edited by Eric Darier, ISBN 0631211233, Blackwell Publishers, p. 144-145 </span> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">BATMAN</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Even so,</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Foucault</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">here</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">found the conjunction...limits on the basis of the general tactics of governmentality’</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(ibid. 103). </span>

**The affirmative has opted to engage in political theatre. Their geopolitical discourse of threats assumes that particular territories have meaning outside of the context of the 1AC speech act. This is hardly a benign or neutral act, rather the 1ac forces reality to fit into American interests defined as neoconservative hacks who strive to make the worst violence inevitable. Wars will no longer be fought against the other but in the name of worldwide peace for American global order.**

David **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Campbell</span>** et al., Professor of Cultural and Political Geography. He serves as an Associate Director of the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies (www.dur.ac.uk/dcaps) and Academic Director of the International Boundaries Research Unit. Political Geography, **<span style="font-size: 16px;">2007</span>**, VOl. 26, pg 415-416



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It is important to highlight the way performativity’s idea of reiteration...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">we put our interests and our future at risk’’ (PNAC, 1998).</span>


**Take out your pen, circle this argument, YES REALISM IS INEVETABLE. But that only matters because they say so. We must refuse the constant demands to secure ourselves and constantly seek global order. Reject the affirmatives geography of world order and integration which only serves to naturalize and justify cycles of inevitable conflict.**
David **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Campbell</span>** et al., Professor of Cultural and Political Geography. He serves as an Associate Director of the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies (www.dur.ac.uk/dcaps) and Academic Director of the International Boundaries Research Unit. Political Geography, **<span style="font-size: 16px;">2007</span>**, VOl. 26, pg 415-416

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">‘‘Non-Integrating’’ areas are those which are, in the words of Barnett...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">world is made to match the geometries of the Pentagon’s New Map.</span>


===**2NC Biopower Impact**=== 
**The flip-side of the affirmative’s demand for inclusion in the population is violent management of life: not only does this guarantee the very exclusions which the affirmative attempts to combat, but authorizes genocidal violence in the name of ‘life’ – we solve the impact quicker**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Ophir 7**,</span> Cohn Institute for History & Philosophy of Science & Ideas, Tel Aviv University, __2007__ [Adi, “The Two-State Solution: Providence and Catastrophe,” 8 Theoretical Inq. L. 117, l/n]


<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"><<In order to fully comprehend the notion of the catastrophic state...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">and has become a necessary condition for the existence of that order.></span> ></span>


===AT: Fear Good=== 
T**he 1AC is a fantasy of pure war – universal destruction that threatens us at every turn – this turns us into ‘pure warriors’ who endlessly rehearse our own deaths – ultimately this leaves us unable to confront cruelty in our everyday lives**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">BORG 3</span>** Executive Director – Community Consulting Group – Graduate White Institiute Psychoanalystic Program __2003__
Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.1 (2003) 57-67

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Paul Virilio and Sylvere Lotringer's concept of "pure war"...we no longer have the means of recognizing it" (42). </span>



==Capitalism K== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**The aff embraces the Enlightenment—it expands into outer space to grow the economy and use space for humanity’s benefit.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dickens 10 </span>**(Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies, University of Cambridge; Visiting Professor of Sociology, University of Essex; former Fellow and Director of Studies in Social and Political Sciences, Fitzwilliam College, Monthly Review, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?” http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Since the Renaissance period of the sixteenth century...taking over large parts of the space program.</span>

**Multiple historical examples prove ideology is more important than action. Capital is the Real whose demands are more important than everything else and that ensures peoples’ lives are degraded and millions in the Third World die. Vote negative to disrupt the narrative of the ruling ideology uncritically endorsed by the aff—in the wake of recession, the time for action is __now__.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zizek 8</span>** (Slavoj, co-director of the International Centre for Humanities at Birkbeck College, “Use Your Illusions,” London Review of Books, http://www.lrb.co.uk/web/14/11/2008/zize01_.html)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">In The Contest of Faculties, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Kant asked</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> a simple but difficult question: </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">is there true...not belong to realistic cynics, from the left or the right.</span>

===2NC Overview=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">We have an a priori ethical obligation to reject this violence. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Daly 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> (Glyn, Senior lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences @ University College Northampton, “Risking the Impossible,” [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">For Zizek </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol</span>...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Other to that of a "glitch" in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Frontier Link</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The exploration mentality frames space as a place to be exploited</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> -</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">*Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">(Peter and James,</span> //<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">pg 164</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This imagined past has long been associated with making an essential American</span>...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rendering of the past, present, and future.</span>

===Military Funding Link=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Military elites ensure that funding is siphoned off to sustain the monitoring of civilian populations and the growth of the military-industrial complex</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> - *Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences at the University of Cambridge and Visiting Professor of Sociology, University of Essex and **James, Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">(Cosmic Society: Towards a sociology of the universe, pg 58)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Surplus capital</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, combined with taxes on consumers, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is channelled into...</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AT: Perm</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Anything less forces us to make choices like “how much exploitation is too much exploitation” which replicates the harms of capitalism and causes extinction.</span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Wade 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(John, political prisoner and activist for the Sierra Club and ACLU, “Radical Environmentalism: Is There Any Other Kind?,” in //Igniting a Revolution: Voices in Defense of the Earth// ed. Steven Best and Anthony J. Nocella II, pg 280) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Life on this planet is being destroyed at an amazing rate...not its justification, but its effectiveness.</span>
==Security K== 

===**1NC Shell**=== 

**The affirmative’s attempt to explore space reflects an insatiable urge to colonize and dominate. Going to space does not resolve problems on earth – it merely expands the destructive potential of our worst impulses**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bormann and Sheehan 9</span>** (Natalie Bormann, Department of Politics, Northeastern University, Boston, and Michael Sheehan, Professor of International Relations at Swansea University, Securing Outer Space, 2009, p. 1-3)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">For fifty years, much of our thinking about socio-political, economic and military-related issues were defined...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">realities of the space age demand novel social theories</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> of the same order.</span>


**The affirmative operates within a framework of nation-state security that leads to serial policy failure and renders all life calculable.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span>** (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in //Theory & Event//, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">This tells us much about </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">the enduring power of crude instrumental versions</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">however </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">ineffective,</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> dysfunctional or chaotic</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

**The Alternative is to __reject the affirmative’s security logic__– only resistance to the discourse of security can open up space for genuine political thought**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Neocleous 8</span>** (Mark Neocleous, Prof. Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History at Brunel University – West London, “Critique of Security,” p. 184-6)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The only way</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">out</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> of such a dilemma, </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">to escape the fetish...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.</span>

===2NC Overview=== 

**In the context of technological developments, their obsession with technical quick-fixes allows us to ignore our role in environmental damage – causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Katz 2k</span>** (Eric Katz, associate professor of philosophy and director of the Science, Technology, and Society Program, New Jersey Institute of Technology; recognized pioneer, environmental ethics, 2000, “Nature as Subject: Human Obligation and Natural Community”)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Even more important, the question arises whether or not Nature can heal...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">fix, repair, and improve natural processes.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">2NC Alternative</span>=== 

**Molecular political strategies are key to destabilize hegemonic modes of thought.*******
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jones 99</span>** (Richard Wyn-Jones, Prof. IR @ Aberystwyth University, //Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory//, p. 155-163)



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Furthermore, the abandonment of faith in revolutionary parties</span>...<span class="UnderlineChar">both an inspiration and a challenge to critical security studies</span>.

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">2NC Author Bias</span>=== 

**Positivism/empiricism isn't NEUTRAL and it isn't OBJECTIVE—it is __always__ filtered through the lens of security—the ways their authors write about threats are biased and __dominated__ by security—the military industrial conflict has infiltrated their writings**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webb 9</span>** (Dave Webb is a Professor of Engineering Modeling, Director of the 'Praxis Centre" (a multidisciplinary research centre for the 'Study of Information Technology to Peace, Conflict and Human Rights') and a member of the School of Applied Global Ethics at Leeds Metropolitan University. "Securing Outer Space"; "Space Weapons: Dream, nightmare or reality?" Routledge Critical Security Studies Series, 2009,



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It appears therefore that </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the military industrial complex...</span>neutral and to give unbiasedadvice <span class="UnderlineChar">to government</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">AT: Framework</span>=== 

**We access the only internal link to policy education**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Biswas 7</span>** (Shampa Biswas, Politics @ Whitman College, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">The recent resuscitation of the project of Empire should give</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">important senses of the vocation</span>.

===AT: Tuathail=== 
__Tuathail goes neg__ – discourse is a prior question.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tuathail and Dalby 98</span> (G. Ó Tuathail, Associate Professor of Geography at Virginia Tech, and S. Dalby, professor of geography and political economy at Carleton University, [[http://www.nvc.vt.edu/toalg/Website/Publish/Papers/ToalDalbyRethinkingIntro.pdf|Re-Thinking Geopolitics]]: Towards a Critical Geopolitics, Routledge, [[http://www.nvc.vt.edu/toalg/Website/Publish/Papers/ToalDalbyRethinkingIntro.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The essays in this volume demonstrate...</span>representational practices <span class="UnderlineChar">throughout cultures</span>.

===AT: Perm=== 

**The perm __footnotes__ the critique – crushes solvency**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96</span>** (Graeme Cheeseman ,Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional...resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

===AT: Threats Real=== 

**There are no objective threats—the discourse we use is how we understand reality**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bleiker 09</span>** (Roland, October 11, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 2001. ISSN 0305-8298. Vol. 30, No. 3, “The Aesthetic Turn in International Political Theory,” pp. 521-522)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">A slightly different way of conceptualising postmodern approaches</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">as detached observer, can produce value-free knowledge</span>

===AT: Predictions Good=== 
__Simulation authorizes war__—this is the best __historical__ evidence on scenario planning in the round.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Der Derian 98</span> (James, Associate Professor of Political Science at University of Massachusetts Amherst, On Security, Columbia University Press, Chapter 2: “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Columbia International Affairs Online, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz.html]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Baudrillard goes beyond Nietzsche in his interpretation of the death</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">his affinity for simulations was and is unsurprising.</span>

===AT: Benign Hegemony=== 
**This is just another call to protect American omnipotence—proves the link.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lifton 3</span>** (Robert Jay, visiting Prof. Psychiatry @ Harvard Medical School, Superpower Syndrome: America’s Apocalyptic Confrontation With The World p. 174-178)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The world's only superpower is haunted</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">fear of weakness will not go away</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

===Economy Link=== 
Economic calculation is circular—makes financial crisis a necessity, turning case.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">de Goede 3</span> (Marieke, Senior Lecturer Dept European Studies @ U of Amsterdam, “Beyond economism in international political economy,” Cambridge U Press, Review of International Studies, 29 : 79-97)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The BCBS’s increasing </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">acceptance of </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">the financial industry’s...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">cushioning” technology’s side-effects</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">’ (Beck 1992: 213, emphases in original).</span>


===Cooperation Link=== 
**The affirmative hides their drive for security behind the mask of cooperation—it’s only a political tool**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sheehan 7</span>** (Michael Sheehan is Professor of International Relations at Swansea University. His publications include The International Politics of Space (2007), International Security: An Analytical Survey (2005) and National and International Security (2000). His current research focuses on European space policy, and on the relationship between liberalism, democracy and war. "The international politics of space" http://books.google.com/books?id=5LUR6CiBwusC&pg=PA55&dq="outer+space"+exploration+David+Campbell+and+Der+Derian&lr=&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=4#v=onepage&q&f=false, )

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The drama of the space race between the superpowers in the 1950s</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">some that were not, for example Cuba, Vietnam, Morocco and Angola."1</span>

===Environment Link=== 
**Apocalyptic environment discourse creates a politics of danger that make totalitarian control necessary in the name of ecological protection.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Waever 95</span>** (Ole, Senior Researcher at the Center for Peace & Conflict Research, //On Security//, p. 63-64)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Central to</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> the arguments for the conceptual innovation</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">control activities in the name of the environment.</span>

===Heg Link=== 

**Hegemony is a drive to order and control that can never be fulfilled – conflict is inevitable because new threats must be created to justify its continuation, resulting in extermination and the very impacts they claim to solve**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Chernus 6</span>** (Ira Chernus, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006, Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The end of the cold war spawned a tempting fantasy of imperial omnipotence...more likely it is to believe and enact the neocon story.</span>

===China Link=== 

**Chinese threat construction assumes a knowable and essentially violent Chinese Other—this Western lens makes militarization and conflict inevitable**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pan 4</span>** (Chengxin, PhDPoli. Sci. and Int’l Relations @ Australian Nat’l U, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” in //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Vol. 29)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Having examined how the <span class="UnderlineChar">"China threat" literature </span>is enabled by and serves the purpose...to define its mission (Islam is rather vague, and Iran lacks necessary weights)."</span>

==Myth K== 

===1NC Shell=== 

**The affirmative participates in mythmaking – an attempt to recapture reality from a vacuum of meaning**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Selby 7</span>** (Charles H. de Selby, Department of English, Oxford University, "'Generating' Baudrillard: Cultural Theory and Baudrillardist Hyperreality," in International Journal of Baudrillard Studies, Special Issue: Remembering Baudrillard, Volume 4, Number 3, October, http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol4_3/v4-3-article74-selby.html)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">I. Cultural theory and cultural discourse “Class is fundamentally responsible for the status quo</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Lacan’s critique of cultural theory states that sexual identity has intrinsic meaning.</span>


**Reality inevitably escapes our grasp – trying to hold on creates an insatiable nostalgia for power, culminating in fascism**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baudrillard 94</span>** (Jean Baudrillard, French sociologist and cultural theorist, "Simulacra and Simulation," pp. 22-23)



<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">As long as the historical threat came at it from the real</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">power played</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">strong referential in a society that cannot terminate its mourning</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8px;">.</span>

**The alternative is to __embrace__ the futility of narrativity – vote negative to __shatter the myth of the Real__**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Werther 2k</span>** (Thomas F.E. Werther, Department of Literature at Oxford University, "Constructivism and Saussurean semiotics," February 25, www.math.tohoku.ac.jp/~kuroki/keijiban/Tmp/werther.html)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">In the works of Spelling, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">a predominant concept is the distinction between within and without...deappropriation, but subdeappropriation</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8px;">.</span>