[[toc]]
=Nanotech CP= 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase necessary use of inorganic-nanotechnology**.

**And, Nanotech may not cause gray goo- but nanobiotech does.**
Goldstein ‘6 (Alan H, Professor and researcher on Biomaterials, winner of prestigious Shell-Economist Prize, and molecular machine manufacturer “I, Nanobot” http://www.kurzweilai.net/meme/frame.html?main=/articles/art0680.html?m%3D18)
However, molecular self-assembly is an …particular strategy to create artificial life.


**Extinction**
Silby ‘2 (Brent, Prof at University of Canterbury, “Nanomachines: Nanotechnology's Big Promise in a Small Package” http://www.def-logic.com/articles/nanomachines.html)
A more serious danger of …longer suitable for biological life.



=States CP= 

**The counterplan solves – avoids delay, leads to a coordinated response and reduces private sector uncertainty**
Amann 10 Scholarly Group of Environmental and Energy Experts (Rachel Amann, December 31, 2010, “A Policy, Legal, and Regulatory Evaluation of the Feasibility of a National Pipeline Infrastructure for the Transport and Storage of Carbon Dioxide: Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission,” [[http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)/DR|http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)//DR]]. H
An interstate advisory compact …regulated community and the regulators.



=Plagiarism CP= 

**Text: We advocate the entirety of the 1AC absent the author citations.**

**Plagiarism solves and avoids the net benefits – it allows us to create radical change and opens up space for us and others to listen. There is no such thing as intellectual property and only by sharing their ideas as our own can we solve the 1AC**
Moolenijzer and Emerson in RIGHT NOW (Nick Moolenijzer is a pretty cool kid, he won a couple novice tournaments and he is an all around nice guy. His partner, Stephanie Emerson, is similarly chill – she’s kinda a badass: sometimes she pretends to be a Jew, but she really isn’t. Together, they are the most qualified authors on any subject, but in particular, this one in right now acc. at [[http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/]])
So we can see that our …or do they have us?


**The impact is the worst forms of violence imaginable. You must meet our demands to end intellectual property**
Moolenijzer and Emerson in RIGHT NOW (Nick Moolenijzer is a pretty cool kid, he won a couple novice tournaments and he is an all around nice guy. His partner, Stephanie Emerson, is similarly chill – she’s kinda a badass: sometimes she pretends to be a Jew, but she really isn’t. Together, they are the most qualified authors on any subject, but in particular, this one in right now acc. at [[http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/]])
Unless you grant …have been for decades.


**Without revolution we are doomed to extinction. This round is key – it allows us to live free as individuals and change the system and process to one that allows for anarchy.**
Moolenijzer and Emerson in RIGHT NOW (Nick Moolenijzer is a pretty cool kid, he won a couple novice tournaments and he is an all around nice guy. His partner, Stephanie Emerson, is similarly chill – she’s kinda a badass: sometimes she pretends to be a Jew, but she really isn’t. Together, they are the most qualified authors on any subject, but in particular, this one in right now acc. at [[http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/]])
Can we get along? … had such a hard time to date.



=Terrocrats CP= 

**CP Text:**
**The United States terrocrats should increase graffiti on its transportation infrastructure.**


**The power of the so called “government” is derived from violence – all of the worst atrocities throughout history have been committed by “governments,” the aff’s acceptance of the term legitimizes violence**
Mann 02 (Frederick, BA in communications from Stanford University, “Report #TL07B: The Nature of Government” version 4, January 2002, [[http://www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml|www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml]])
Ultimately, political power comes … official capacity." -- John Hospers


**Usage of the word “terrocrats” recognizes the lies and violence of “government,” creating the potential to collapse their false hierarchy of power**
Mann 02 (Frederick, BA in communications from Stanford University, “Report #TL07B: The Nature of Government” version 4, January 2002, [[http://www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml|www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml]])
The power of territorial criminals …terms over the airwaves and in print!



=HSR PIC= 

**CP Text:**
**The United States federal government should establish a national infrastructure bank to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through loans and loan guarantees for all transportation infrastructure projects except high-speed rail.**


**Their NIB would fund high speed rail**
Braley 11 (Bruce Braley, U.S. Representative for Iowa's 1st Congressional District, Braley Calls on Obama to Invest in Nation's Infrastructure, 9/12/11, U.S. House of Representatives)
A National Infrastructure Bank would … Bank as part of your job creation plan.


**The Wetlands Reserve Program is restoring the environment now**
US Department of Agriculture 08 or later (National Resources Conservation Service, “Restoring America’s Wetlands: A Private Lands Conservation Success Story” www.nrcs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/stelprdb1045079.pdf)
WRP wetlands provide long-term…resources are available for future generations.


**HSR threatens the environment, endangered species, and wetlands**
Dawid 12 (Irvin, Sierra Club California, Bay Area Transportation Committee, High Speed Rail: Detriment or Benefit to the Environment?, 6/16/12, [[http://www.planetizen.com/node/57184]])
While California's high speed rail … during construction", wrote Tim Sheehan.


**Environmental collapse causes extinction**
Jayawardena 09 (Asitha, London South Bank University, “We Are a Threat to All Life on Earth” 7/17/09, www.indicator.org.uk/?p=55)
Sloep and Van Dam-Mieras (1995) …expecting surprises and adapting to these.’



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]