=T - Not Systems= 

====Only things that are constructed are transportation infrastructure – not processes related to transportation==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">EJTIR 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chantal C. Cantarelli (Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management, Delft University of Technology), Bent Flyvbjerg (Saïd Business School, University of Oxford), Eric J.E. Molin (Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management, Delft University of Technology), Bert van Wee (Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management, Delft University of Technology), "Cost Overruns in Large-scale Transportation Infrastructure Projects: Explanations and Their Theoretical Embeddedness" European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research www.ejtir.tbm.tudelft.nl/issues/2010_01/pdf/2010_01_01.pdf, DOA: 6/27/12)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We define transportation infrastructure….level of 500 million euros.</span>



=T - Tinf= 

====A. Interpretation: Only transportation infrastructure is topical==== 
Babson 11
[Adam – Senior Analyst at Russell Research. “Structuring a Listed Infrastructure Portfolio” May 2011, http://www.openworldinvesting.com/files/ow_listed_infra_article.pdf]

While the global infrastructure … higher-beta, competitively exposed companies).


====1. Pipelines are not transportation infrastructure – they are legally defined as energy infrastructure==== 
US Chamber of Commerce 10
United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf]]

Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure … it is considered an element of energy infrastructure.




=T – Substantial= 

====A substantial increase in investment is over 20%==== 
Traficant et. al 89
(James, Former member of US House of Representatives, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, Accessed 8/27/12 [[http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489]])

(C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED… on the first day of such period.


====And, Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion==== 
GAO 11
(Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600]])

This report responds to …DOT, state, and local officials.


====Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance==== 
Lemer 11 - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])

What has been neglected … often squeezed, forcing neglect.



=T - Capital Expenditure= 

====Interpretation -- Investment requires the “capital expenditure” – prefer this definition, the author attempts to set a guide for policy makers==== 
Anderson 06
(Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies at the University of East Anglia) March “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)
This paper will explore the … Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).



=Framework= 

====“Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum==== 
Army Officer School 04 (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, [[http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm]])
The colon introduces the … council petition the mayor.

====“United States federal government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a government policy==== 
Ericson 03 (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)
The Proposition of Policy: …future action that you propose.

====Simulation of different roles encourages learning and empowerment==== 
Innes and Booher 99 (Judith, Director – Institute of Urban and Regional Development and Professor at UC Berkeley and David, Visiting Scholar at the Institute, Journal of the American Planning Association, Winter, Vol. 65, Iss. 1)
Our observation and practice of … fundamental sense empowers individuals.

====Fairness comes first – if debate isn’t fair debaters will become disenfranchised and quit==== 
Speice and Lyle 03 (Patrick, Wake Forest, and Jim, Debate Coach – Clarion, “Traditional Policy Debate: Now More Than Ever” Debaters Research Guide, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/SpeiceLyle2003htm.htm)
As with any game or sport, … educational for all participants.

====Education leads to empowerment: you have to be educated to know to make choices==== 
Mortenson 12 (Author and World peace proponent, “Education Leads to Empowerment, Mortenson Tells Samford Crowd” <[[http://www.samford.edu/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=6442468256#.UPSI5m9i9fw|www.samford.edu/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=6442468256#.UPSI5m9i9fw]]>)
Education equips people with … Mortenson to the Samford lecture stage.

====Upholding the resolution provides a stasis point for debate which is necessary for clash – this interpretation DOES NOT preclude the thesis of their advocacy as long as it pertains to the topic==== 
Panetta et. al 10 (Chair Edward M. Panetta, University of Georgia; co-author, William Mosley-Jensen, University of Georgia Members Dan Fitzmier, Northwestern University Sherry Hall, Harvard University Kevin Kuswa, University of Richmond Ed Lee, Emory University David Steinberg, University of Miami (FL) Fred Sternhagen, Concordia College (MN) John Turner, Dartmouth College, “Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century”, “Controversies in Debate Pedagogy: Working Paper” p. 220)
For adherents to the traditional …strategy to the national topic.

====Don’t buy their arguments that traditional debate is stale – repetition is key to education – we don’t retain information without it – studies prove==== 
Freeland 05 (Alan E. (MD) and Jennifer T. Freeland (PhD), February 2005, Dr Alan E. Freeland is from the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Rehabilitation, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Miss and Dr Jennifer T. Freeland is from the Department of Educational and School Psychology, Indiana State University, Terre Haute, Ind., “Repetition Makes a Scholar”, http://www.healio.com/orthopedics/journals/ORTHO/%7B2183B2BF-9E7B-4C76-9357-324B3B920B28%7D/Repetition-Makes-a-Scholar)
Discipline The first of these … and certification examinations.

====Switch side debate solves all of their offense. There’s no reason they should get to read this on the aff. And, switch-side debate shapes us to become more tolerant, less violent, and it empowers us with agency to engage with others==== 
O’Donnell et al 10 (Timothy O’Donnell, University of Mary Washington, Neil Butt, Wayne State University Stefan Bauschard, Lakeland School District, New York Joseph Bellon, Georgia State University Warren Decker, George Mason University John Kastulas, Boston College William Keith, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee James Lyle, Clarion University Danielle Verney O’Gorman, U.S. Naval Academy Joseph Packer, University of Pittsburgh, “Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century”, “A Rationale for Intercollegiate Debate in the Twenty-first Century”, p.50-51)
In addition to cultivating …in the public school system” (2001, 14).

====Radical opposition to the system affirms its existence. Opposing discourses allow the system to simulate its own death and delay its collapse.==== 
Baudrillard 81 [Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 18-19]
Conjunction of the system … seen and of its already dead.