[[toc]]
**Email for Neg cites:** [[mailto:rohandebate@gmail.com%C2%A0|rohandebate@gmail.com]]
=Neg Strat= 

===Byron Nelson=== 

**Semis vs. Grapevine KS - HSR**
**1NC:** States CP, Downgrade DA, Elections DA, and Case Defense
**2NC:** Downgrade DA, and States CP
**1NR:** Elections DA and Case
**2NR:** States CP and Elections DA

===Plano West=== 

**Round 3 vs. Hebron KA - Bicycles**
**1NC:** Cap K, Downgrade DA, Elections DA, and Case Defense
**2NC:** Cap K and Downgrade DA
**1NR:** Elections DA
**2NR:** Cap K

**Round 5 vs. Berkner LS - Anthro RADS Aff**
**1NC:** Cap K, Downgrade DA, Framework, Elections DA, Anthro Good Turns
**2NC:** Cap K and Downgrade DA
**1NR:** Elections DA and Case
**2NR:** Downgrade DA and Framework

===Naaman Forest=== 

**Round 4 vs. Law Magnet GO - Green Tech**
**1NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Elections DA, EIS CP, and Case D
**2NC:** EIS CP and Psychoanalysis K
**1NR:** Elections DA and Case
**2NR:** Psychoanalysis K and Case

===Hockaday=== 

**Round 2 vs. Grapevine IS - Plastic Roads**
**1NC:** Downgrade DA, Psychoanalysis K, Cyber Security DA, Cost Overruns CP, and Case D
**2NC:** Downgrade DA, Psychoanalysis K, Cost Overruns CP
**1NR:** Cyber Security DA and Case D
**2NR:** Psychoanalysis K and Case D

===University of Texas at Austin=== 

**Round 3 vs. Little Rock Central SS - NextGen**
**1NC:** Downgrade DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Cost Overruns CP, Psychoanalysis K, and Case D
**2NC:** Downgrade DA and Cost Overruns CP
**1NR:** Fiscal Cliff DA and Case D
**2NR:** Downgrade DA, Fiscal Cliff DA

**Round 5 vs. Roma High School FR - Bering Strait**
**1NC:** T-Land Grants, Downgrade DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Psychoanalysis K, Case D
**2NC:** Downgrade DA, Psychoanalysis K
**1NR:** T-Land Grants, Fiscal Cliff DA and Case D
**2NR:** T-Land Grants, Psychoanalysis K, and Case D

===Berkner=== 

**Round 2 vs. North Crowley LH - Cap Aff**
**1NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Cede the Political DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Neolib Turns, Framework, Cap Turns
**2NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Framework, Case Defense
**1NR:** Fiscal Cliff DA, Neolib Turns, Cap Turns, Framework
**2NR:** Psychoanalysis K, Neolib Turns, Cap Turns, Framework

**Round 4 vs. Wylie QA - Icebreakers**
**1NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Downgrade DA, EIS CP, Util Good, Case Defense
**2NC:** Downgrade DA, EIS CP, Case Defense
**1NR:** Fiscal Cliff DA, Util Good
**2NR:** Fiscal Cliff DA, EIS CP, Util Good

===Colleyville=== 

**Round 1 vs. St. Marks BM - NIB**
**1NC:** NIB-SPEC, Immigration Politics, Psychoanalysis K, States CP, Case D
**2NC:** Psychoanalysis K
**1NR:** Immigration Politics, Case D
**2NR:** Immigration Politics

**Round 4 vs. Highland Park TW - NextGen**
**1NC:** T-Communications, Immigration Politics, Psychoanalysis K, States CP, Case D
**2NC:** Psychoanalysis K
**1NR:** Immigration Politics, Case D
**2NR:** Immigration Politics

===Berkeley Invitational=== 

**Round 2 vs. Rowland Hall AK - Hillman**
**1NC:** T - Framework, Cap K, Anthro K
**2NC:** Cap K
**1NR:** T - Framework 
**2NR:** T - Framework

**Round 4 vs. St. Francis AG - Natives**
**1NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Immigration Politics DA, Natives Earmarks PIC, Gift Turn
**2NC:** Psychoanalysis K
**1NR:** Gift Turn
**2NR:** Gift Turn

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 5 vs. South East PR - Mass Transit Equality</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**1NC:** Psychoanalysis K, Immigration Politics DA, States CP, Gentrification Turns</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**2NC:** Psychonalysis K and Gentrification Turns</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**1NR:** Immigration Politics DA</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**2NR:** Psychoanalysis K and Gentrification Turns</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]