[[toc]]
=Privates CP= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TEXT: The United States federal government should initiate complete privatization of (__) by offering to sell all relevant publically-owned transportation infrastructure to interested private sector entities.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The USFG should monetize all its existing transportation infrastructure assets -- private sector will pick them up.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Lord 10** financial journalist, commentator and analyst (Nick, “Privatization: The road to wiping out the US deficit,” April 2012,[[http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/ps/i.do?action=interpret&id=GALE%7CA225551392&v=2.1&u=lom_umichanna&it=r&p=ITOF&sw=w&authCount=1]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AM</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One idea that financiers are... available for these assets," he says.</span>//
=OMB CP= 
**TEXT: The Office of Management and Budget and its Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs will utilize their Scorecard system and issue a red score rating to the appropriate federal agency for failure to [INSERT MODIFIED PLAN]**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Without force of law, “Traffic-Lights” cause change– bragging rights and quarterly updates prove.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Breul ‘8**(Jonathan D . Breul – IBM Center for the Business of Government – “Federal Government Reform: Lessons from Clinton’s Reinventing Government and Bush’s “Management Agenda” Initiatives. Public Administration Review 68 (6): 1009-1026. – obtained via EBSCOhost database)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Traffic light” scorecard . The … show him the scorecard ( Frank 2003 ).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Red-lights cause voluntarily implementation of the Aff.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Peckenpaugh ‘3** (Jason Peckenpaugh – the “he told” in this card is internally quoting Clay Johnson, deputy director for management at the Office of Management and Budget. Peckenpaugh is a frequent contributor to Government Executive and affiliated with Stanford University Criminal Justice Center – Government Executive – [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/0503/052703p1.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The management agenda has … -to-be-underestimated motivation for these agencies."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The counterplan’s initial OMB action won’t be viewed as the White House.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tomkin ’98** (Shelley Lynne Tomkin is Associate Professor of Political Science at Trinity College, Washington, DC – Inside OMB: politics and process in the President's Budget Office – p.27-28)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As head of BOB/OMB, … , "abandoned cultural commentary for awhile."37</span>
=NMS CP= 
**Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that <span style="line-height: 1.5;">[INSERT MODIFIED PLAN TEXT] is necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States. </span>**

**Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan**
**Meinhart ‘8** (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
To meet these challenges, the military strategy ... ambiguous global security environment.

**NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning**
**Riley ‘94** (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)
Should not theNational Military Strategy provide ... for the military 20 years from now begins today.
=Fed CP= 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Text—The Federal Reserve should purchase new long-term bonds earmarked for [INSERT] in the United States.</span>**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The counterplan solves the plan without Congressional backlash or federal spending. Here’s our solvency advocate—</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lau 8/17 </span>**– Lawrence J. Lau, Kwoh-Ting Li Professor of Economic Development in the Department of Economics at Stanford University, Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics at The Chinese University of Hong Kong, former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of California-Berkeley, 2012 (“What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy?,” China Daily, August 17th, Available Online at [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm]], Accessed 11/2/2012)
While the US economy is ...from becoming too high.) 

**No congressional or president approval**
**Federal Reserve, 12** (aff actor, [[http://www.frbsf.org/what-is-the-fed/structure.html]] )
The Federal Reserve...independent within the government."