[[toc]]
=D&G - 1NC Shell [Bronx]= 
**The impacts of the 1AC aren't attempts to help the world - they're wounds inflicted in a reactionary drive for stasis. Existence knows nothing of lack and the goals that we choose to pursue are always just that: a far from innocent choice with political implications.**
**Deleuze and Guattari, '77**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(AO 26-29 - VK)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In point of fact, if desire is the lack [...] masses that needs to be accounted for.</span>

**The world around us is failing – on the brink of extinction, our lives are not joyous but anxious and the solutions of technology have failed us. Politics has no hope of saving us.**
**Guattari, '89**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies", pp. 27-29 - VK</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The Earth is undergoing [...] dreadful rise of religious fundamentalism.</span>

**Our alternative is a step from technology to aesthetics. We must begin transformations with the self.**
**Guattari, '89**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies", pp. 48-53</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">One of the key analytic problems [...] than those of integrated World Capitalism.</span>

**We are not passive subjects in the face of immutable necessities, rather, we are the authors of history and it is in the process of mutual self-care, the creative shaping of yourself as desiring subjects, that we will find a more joyous form of social interaction that does not mutilate life. We will make a gamble: the worst things we do, we do out of a desire to produce a better future for ourselves. Perhaps it is time to lay aside the fascism of necessary goals and certain meaning and live close to life, subsisting off of the only thing we all possess: the ability to shape ourselves.**
**Seem, '72**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Mark, AO xx-xxiii, [from Murray's file - thanks, lol)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">To be Anti-Oedipal is to [...] demolishing entire social sectors.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]