[[toc]]
==Fiscal Cliff (Georgetown)== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Obama has the influence to prevail in fiscal cliff negotiations now---political capital is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sprung, 9/21-</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Andrew Sprung is a political commentator & media consultant. He is the CEO of Sprung PR and hold a PhD from the University of Rochestor, “Ezra Klein's unconvincing theory that Obama misunderstands (or misrepresents) "change," http://xpostfactoid.blogspot.com/2012/09/ezra-kleins-unconvincing-theory-that.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Obama also used the bully pulpit at crucial points...if he wins reelection, will have the whip hand</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s try or die, must act now—transportation bill goes into effect on October 1st</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Orski, 9/27** Ken. DC Transportation Examiner. 09/27/2012 Former federal transportation official, http://www.examiner.com/article/looking-beyond-map-21-the-current-transportation-bill</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Even though the new two-year transportation bill...dire consequences of a failure to act.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hutchison,** U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **9/21**/2012-(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">unless Congress and the White House can reach agreement...and a loss of technological research</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Middle East war goes nuclear</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">James A. **Russell**, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, **‘9** (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Strategic stability in the region is ...substantial risk for the entire world.</span>

==Dedev== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Economic growth is unsustainable—requires resources beyond earth’s carrying capacity</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Trainer, ‘11</span> – <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ted, Ph. D of Social Sciences from the University of New South Wales, Senior Lecturer in the School of Social Sciences, June 1, ‘The Simpler Way perspective on the global predicament’, [[http://ukiahcommunityblog.wordpress.com/2011/06/01/ted-trainer-the-simpler-way-perspective-on-the-global-predicament%20//|http://ukiahcommunityblog.wordpress.com/2011/06/01/ted-trainer-the-simpler-way-perspective-on-the-global-predicament]]</span>
There is no possibility... impossible levels in coming decades.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Collapse now is key - growth causes ecocide and environmental collapse, leading to the extinction of all life; we must act to prevent the systemic violence occurring against the planet</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Barry, ‘12</span> – <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Glen, Ph.D. in Land Resources from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, President and Founder of Ecological Internet, Janurary 1, ‘EARTH MEANDERS: On Violence and Earth Revolution’, http://www.ecoearth.info/blog/2012/01/on_violence_and_earth_revoluti.asp#more</span>
Earth's ecosystems are collapsing... interact and reinforce each other.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Depression triggers a transition to a zero-growth, steady state economy.</span>
TRAINER, PROFESSOR @ UNIVERSITY OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 06 (TED, THE ALTERNATIVE, SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY: THE SIMPLER WAY, NOVEMBER 31, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://ssis.arts.unsw.edu.au/tsw/12c-TheALT.SUS.SOC.long.html]]</span>)
Sudden crashes within the financial world... we will replace the market.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The transition’s global. There’s a post-industrial paradigm shift occurring now.</span>
TRAINER, PROFESSOR @ UNIVERSITY OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 07 (TED, THE TRANSITION IS UNDERWAY, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://ssis.arts.unsw.edu.au/tsw/D24TheTransIsUnderway.html]]</span>)
Ife sees an emerging global... limits to growth is central.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, Economic Decline doesn’t cause war</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Deudney 91</span> – <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton (Daniel, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27).</span>
Widespread economic stagnation... spending will exacerbate the problem.