[[toc]]
=Russia Relations= 

**U.S.-Russia relations are high now – New START proves.**
<span class="s1">**Rykhtik ’11** </span>[Mikhail Rykhtik, international relations at Nizhny Novgorod State University, PONARS Eurasia (George Washington University Elliott School of International Affairs), Memo No. 175, September 2011, Extending the “Reset” in U.S.-Russian Relations]

<span class="s2">Recently, </span><span class="s1">U.S.-Russia relations...reaching a new plateau.</span>

**Unilateral space action kills relations.**
<span class="s1">**Wood ’10** </span>[Jason D. Wood, Washington, D.C.-based policy analyst and a member of the 2010 Nuclear Scholars Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Dec. 13, 2010, The U.S.-Russia Space Relationship and Future Space Security, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/7300/the-u-s-russia-space-relationship-and-future-space-security]
While much has...<span class="s1">behavior in space.</span>

**This opens up multiple nuclear conflicts**
<span class="s1">**Cohen ’10** </span>[Stephen, prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU, Prof emeritus, Princeton, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]]]

Cohen: The real concern...connect these dots.



=Weaponization= 

**US is not weaponizing space now**
<span class="s1">**De Selding ’09**</span>[Peter B., 2-20-09, Space News Staff Writer [“Pentagon Official: U.S. Is Not Developing Space Weapons,” [[http://www.space.com/news/090220-pentagon-space-weapons.html%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.space.com/news/090220-pentagon-space-weapons.html]]]
STRASBOURG, France - <span class="s1">The United States...</span>produce a treaty.

**Plan causes mixed perception about space development – leads to global militarization**
<span class="s1">**Michelson ’10**</span> [the Roeper School Egypt Representative, Special Political Committee, 10 (Rebecca, 2010, "Peaceful Use of Outer Space", http://www.glica.org/topics/show/78)

In the years...for peaceful purposes.

**Space weaponization kills deterrence and causes nuclear war**
<span class="s1">**Krepon and Clary 3**</span>– Michael Krepon, served as the president and CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Christopher Clary, Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project at the Stimson Center, April 2, 2003, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space,” Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf

<span class="s3">The</span><span class="s4"> presumed additional...in preemptive strikes.</span>

**Deterrence prevents large scale war - Taiwan, Korea, and Kashmir prove**
<span class="s1">**Alagappa ‘8**</span>[Muthiah – Distinguished senior fellow at the East-West Center. The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia. Ed. Muthiah Alagappa. p. ]

<span class="s4">Nuclear weapons have...</span><span class="s3">off the table</span>.