[[toc]]




=Elections= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">1NC Obama Good Greenhill</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Obama winning- best models predict- prefer it to polls</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Nate </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Silver, 9-18</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">-2012 [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/sept-17-electoral-college-may-not-help-obama/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The FiveThirty … any given time</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Independent voters are key to the election- new spending kills support for Obama causing them to vote republican</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Douglas </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Schoen</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-20</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Neither party focuses … the same gridlock.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Vote could still shift – recent Obama clip about redistribution proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Adler, 9/19 –</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> Blogger at the Nation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">(Ben, the Nation, “Conservative Media Try to Save Romney's Campaign,” [[http://www.thenation.com/blogs/ben-adler]], 9/19./2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Mitt Romney sure …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hayes considers damaging.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Obama key to global climate change – only way to solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Leber, 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> - Think Progress research assistant</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">(Rebecca, Think Progress, “Report: Future of Global Climate Deal Dependent On 2012 Election,” [[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/01/05/398600/report-future-of-global-climate-deal-dependent-on-2012-election/]], 1/5/2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">World leaders struck …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">post-Fukushima world. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Warming is the only existential threat – causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Deibel, 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">- professor of IR at National War College</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">(Terry, “Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today Anthropogenic – caused by CO2, 2007)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">there is one … on this planet</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">1NC Obama Good Meadows</span>== 
**Obama will win now – but it’s close**
**Silver 10-25** – Poll Analyst for the New York Times
(Nate, New York Times, “Oct. 24: In Polls, Romney’s Momentum Seems to Have Stopped,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/25/oct-24-in-polls-romneys-momentum-seems-to-have-stopped/]]</span>)
__The battleground state polls that came in on Wednesday were generally very close to our model’s current projections__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For instance, </span>__there were three Ohio polls published on Wednesday; one showed a tied race there, while the other two showed Mr. Obama ahead by margins of two and five points.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That’s pretty much what you’d expect to see out of a trio of Ohio polls if Mr. Obama’s lead there were about two points, which is where our model now has it. </span>__Some of the polls, especially the Time magazine poll which had Mr. Obama five points ahead in Ohio, seemed to set off a lot of discussion on Twitter, as though people were surprised that Mr. Obama still held the lead there__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But these polls are really nothing new. Since the Denver debate, Mr. Obama has held the lead in 16 Ohio polls against 6 for Mr. Romney. In Nevada, Mr. Obama has had the lead in 11 polls, to Mr. Romney’s 1. </span>__Mr. Obama has led in all polls of Wisconsin since the Denver debate, and he has had five poll leads in Iowa to one for Mr. Romney.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Part of the confusion (and part of the reason behind the perception that Mr. Romney is still gaining ground in the race) may be because of the headlines that accompany polls. We’re still getting some polls trickling in where the most recent comparison is to a poll conducted before the Denver debate. We should expect Mr. Romney to gain ground relative to a poll conducted before Denver. (Mr. Romney may have lost a point or so off his bounce, but he has clearly not lost all of it). But it isn’t news when he does; Mr. Romney’s Denver gains had long ago become apparent, and priced into the various polling averages and forecast models. The question, rather, is whether Mr. Romney is gaining ground relative to the post-Denver polls — or if, </span>__as Wednesday’s polls seemed to imply, the race instead may have ticked back slightly toward Mr. Obama__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**(LINK)**

**Independent voters are key to the election – they cause them to shift their votes toRomney**
Douglas **Schoen**, pollster for President Clinton, 2-8-20**12**, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neither party focuses on issues that matter most to people: reviving the economy, promoting job creation, balancing the budget, reducing debt and taking on entitlements</span>__. Both Republicans and Democrats are virtually ignoring the concerns of swing voters,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> now close to 20 percent of the electorate, and </span>__independents____, now at least 40 percent of the electorate__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and, </span>__according to Gallup, the single largest voting__ __bloc.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> T</span>__hese two groups share similar interests. And both give Republican and Democratic leaders net negative ratings.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__Independents disapprove of how Obama is doing his job__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 52 percent to 37 percent, according to a recent New York Times/CBS poll. Just 31 percent had a favorable opinion of Obama, with two-thirds saying he has not made progress fixing the economy. </span>__Six in 10 independents say Obama does not share their priorities for the country.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__The president’s improved standing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the recent Washington Post poll has probably been overstated and </span>__has more to do with Romney’s weakness than with some dramatic turnaround in Obama’s own numbers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A majority of independents still disapprove of his job performance and a clear majority of the electorate disapproves of his handling of the economy, his performance in creating jobs and his efforts to balance the budget.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Independents have similar negative impressions of leading GOP presidential candidates Romney and Gingrich, according to a recent Washington Post poll. Independents look unfavorably on Romney, 51 percent to 23 percent, and have an unfavorable impression of Gingrich, 53 percent to 23 percent.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Another ominous sign for Romney, still the presumed nominee, is that voter turnout decreased about 15 percent in Florida’s primary from four years ago, and almost 40 percent of the voters said they were not satisfied with the current field.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It’s crucial the GOP candidates address these voter concerns. A recent national survey I conducted sheds light on who the swing voters are and what they want from government — which meshes closely with the independents’ policy preferences.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> I isolated swing voters by looking at those voters who supported Bill Clinton in an imaginary trial heat against Romney but didn’t support Obama in a trial heat against Romney. This came to 15 percent of the electorate.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In a two-way race for president between Clinton and Romney, an overwhelming majority prefers Clinton, 60 percent to 24 percent. Meanwhile, between Obama and Romney, voters split almost evenly — with Obama at 45 percent and Romney at 43 percent.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__A detailed assessment of swing voters shows that they are not liberal Democrats. Over three-quarters__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(76 percent) </span>__are moderates__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">or conservatives, and close to two-thirds (65 percent) are Republicans or independents. Slightly less than half (49 percent) are Southerners.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__This data underscore the voters’ desire for politicians who advocate__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">for bipartisanship and coalition-building in a polarized country. The substantial degree of support for Clinton versus Romney shows that the more bipartisan, centrist and </span>__fiscally conservative__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">the </span>__appeal__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the broader the support.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> A Third Way survey conducted after the midterms supports my findings. Sixty percent of voters who supported Obama in 2008, but voted Republican in 2010, feel that Obama is too liberal. About 66 percent say that Obama and the Democrats in Congress tried to have government do too much.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> A USA Today/Gallup Poll released late last year also shows that the electorate believes Obama is too far left ideologically. Americans were asked to rate their own ideology as well as that of the major presidential candidates on a 5-point scale. Most rated themselves at 3.3 (slightly right of center), and Obama at 2.3 (left of center) — further away than all other major presidential candidates. A majority of Americans, 57 percent, see Obama as liberal, while only 23 percent see him as moderate.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Indeed, </span>__recent polling shows that independents want to rein in the size__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and </span>__scope of government__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Gallup reports that </span>__64 percent of independents say Big Government is the biggest threat to the country.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Which may be one reason for Santorum’s growing support. Three-quarters are dissatisfied with the size and power of the federal government, while just 24 percent are satisfied.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>**__Other polling shows that these voters want policies that emphasize__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">economic growth and </span>__budget reduction__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the wake of the crippling economic downturn, 82 percent believe it is extremely or very important to expand the economy, according to recent Gallup polling. </span>__Seventy percent say the federal budget deficit should be__ **__cut by__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a combination of </span>__spending cuts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and modest tax increases — with many polls showing these voters feel spending cuts are key.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __Independents do not support more government spending__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. My polling last year shows </span>__ind__**__ependents believe government should refrain from spending money to stimulate the economy, given the large deficit we face,__** **__62 percent to 24 percent.__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Independents, according to Gallup, are looking for government to expand the economy (82 percent), and promote equality of opportunity (69 percent). They are not looking for government to promote equality of outcome, since just 43 percent say they want to reduce the income gap between the rich and the poor. By 50 percent to 47 percent, they say the divide between the rich and the poor is an acceptable part of the economic system.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__So it’s clear what these voters are looking for__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and also that neither party is addressing their concerns. To be sure, independent voters want conciliation and compromise. Some are more conservative and market-oriented. Others are ready to accept government stimulus spending for our economic recovery. But all share the desire for economic growth, job creation and a path to fiscal stability.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__The two parties cannot continue to ignore swing voters. Without them, it will be__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">difficult, if not </span>__impossible, to win in November____.__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Moreover, to win without addressing their concerns will almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.</span>

**Obama key to global climate change – only way to solve**
**Leber, 12** - Think Progress research assistant
(Rebecca, Think Progress, “Report: Future of Global Climate Deal Dependent On 2012 Election,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/01/05/398600/report-future-of-global-climate-deal-dependent-on-2012-election/]]</span>, 1/5/2012)

__World leaders struck a deal__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> last month during the Durban United Nations conference </span>__that sets a path to a__ __global climate deal by 2015__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — a precarious agreement including major developing countries like China and India. However, </span>__a report by the research branch of the HSBC bank predicts a deal would be trashed if President Obama is not reelected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. With climate denial and opposition to emissions limits rampant in the GOP field, </span>__HSBC finds a global deal would be “almost impossible” if a Republican wins the White House: [The] prospects for a new global climate deal in 2015 depend considerably on the election of a pro-climate action president.____The election of a President opposed to climate action will not only damage growth prospects for low-carbon solutions in the USA itself, but will make the hard task of negotiating a new global agreement by 2015 almost impossible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If Obama is re-elected with support in both houses, we expect modest measures to introduce a federal clean energy standard for electricity; a stripped down cap and trade programme could re-emerge building on the regional scheme on the West and East coasts. Though some GOP contenders haven’t always positioned themselves as climate zombies, </span>__everyone from Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, to Jon Huntsman have doubted climate change science leading up to the primaries.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frontrunner </span>__Romney opposes carbon emissions limits__ __and a cap and trade program__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, despite having supported pollution limits as Massachussets governor. Of course, the future of energy policy also hinges on political developments worldwide. The report also notes that elections worldwide, particularly France, will be an “important test of the resilience of pro-nuclear policies” in a post-Fukushima world. </span>

**Warming is the only existential threat – causes extinction**
**Deibel 07**- professor of IR at National War College
(Terry, “Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today Anthropogenic – caused by CO2, 2007)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, </span>__there is one__ __major existential threat to American security__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action</span>__. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, </span>__“it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.”____Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second</span>__”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serous the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, </span>__we are__ __already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, </span>__“we’re just going to burn everything up____; we’re going to get the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possible end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. </span>__Over the long run it puts dangers form terrorism and__ __traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
=F-35 Tradeoff= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">F-35 being funded now– new budget proposals can derail</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Jeremiah </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Gertler,</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">February 16, 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Specialist in Military Aviation, F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) Program, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL30563.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">FY2012 defense authorization …</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">the Administration request.</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">**Short-term shift in defense budget causes serious disruptions in funding for Operation and Maintenance- this hallows out the military and destroys military superiority** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Koehl</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 10-31</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">-‘8</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stuart- Fellow at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, senior research fellow on US-European defense cooperation at the Center for Transatlantic Relations,, “The Unbearable Lightness of Barney; A Democratic congressman's irresponsible and impossible plan to cut the defense budget by 25 percent”, The Weekly Standard) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The first thing … to cut O&M. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">F-35s key to hegemony—cutting them would kill the aerospace industry and alliances – Turns Airpower </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Donnelly, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> - director of the Center for Defense Studies </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">[7/18/11Thomas, The Weekly Standard, “An Extremely Immodest Proposal,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/extremely-immodest-proposal_576967.html?, accessed 7/24/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No doubt the …</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">will rapidly disappear.</span>//