[[toc]]

=Substantial= 
==1NC 3.7 Billion== 

**Interpertation – Substantial infrastructure investment is 3.7 billion dollars – current U.S. fiscal policy proves**
**Oldershaw 08** [Mark Oldershaw, 2008,“NATIONAL’S INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN: BUILDING FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE”, [[http://www.national.org.nz/files/2008/infrastructure_policy.pdf]]]
National’s fiscal policy includes a substantial increase in infrastructure investment over the next six years, //totalling $3.7 billion//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This takes the form of an increase in the capital allowance in each of the next six Budgets, adding to the capital allowances that Labour has already planned.</span>

**Violation – they spend less than that**

**That’s a voting issue**

They are obligated to provide enough evidence to prove they are topical – The alternative would be judge intervention.
Annual Review of Criminal Procedure 09 (38 Geo. L.J. Ann. Rev. Crim. Proc. 491)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The burden of proof consists of</span>__two parts: __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the burden of production</span>__and the burden of persuasion. __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The party bearing the burden of production must produce enough evidence to allow a factfinder to determine that the fact in question occurred. The party who first pleads the existence of a fact not yet in issue </span>__usually __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has the burden of production</span>__, but this burden can shift from one party to another. __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If a party fails</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to sustain its burden of production, that party is subject to an adverse ruling by the court</span>__. For instance, the prosecution has the burden of production on every element of the offense charged. __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If the government fails to produce sufficient evidence</span>__for any element, __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">thereby not bringing the fact into issue, the judge may direct a verdict in the defendant's favor</span>__. See generally LAFAVE, CRIMINAL LAW § 1.8 (4th ed. 2003); MCCORMICK, EVIDENCE §§ 336-337 (5th ed. 1999).

**They explode the topic – there’s hundreds of small projects that they could build, limiting the topic to huge projects allows the neg to adequately prepare for each of them and have adequate ground against each, there’s no disads to building infrastructure in one small city**


=Investment= 
==1NC New Infrastructure== 

**Interpretation - Transportation investment must be new infrastructure**
**Collenette 99** Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual reporthttp://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf BK
Whether __made by__ business or __government, “transport investment” can be defined as__ both **__new infrastructure construction__** __and purchases of new machinery and equipment. Investment **excludes** repair and maintenance expenditure, which are expenditures on **existing infrastructure**, machinery and equipment.__ 

**Violation – they change current infrastructure**

**That’s a voting issue**

**Ground- There is no links to existing projects or repairs because the programs have already been passed**

**Limits- this topic is already huge, allowing for maintenance allows for every infrastructure to be used** 

=Infrastructure= 
==1NC== 

**Interpretation – Transportation infrastructure are ports, roads, rail systems, and aviation**
**Akinwale 10** (Akeem Ayofe, Professor of Sociology – Covenant University (Nigeria), “The Menace of Inadequate Infrastructure in Nigeria”, African Journal of Science, Technology, Innovation, and Development, 2(3), p. 209-210)

3. __The Concept of Infrastructure__
Research on infrastructure dwells on different issues such as education, roads, water supply, power grids, telecommunications, and hospitals (Abosedra et al, 2009; Mandel, 2008; Frischmann, 2007; CBN, 2003; Pendse, 1980). __Major infrastructures can be **classified** into the **following categories**:__
1. Energy/Power Infrastructure: electricity, gas and petroleum pipelines
2. **__Transportation__** __Infrastructure: surface roads, rail system, ports, and aviation__
3. Water Infrastructure: Piped water and irrigation
4. Communication Infrastructure: mass media, internet, phones, and postalservices
5. Health Infrastructure: primary, secondary and tertiary heath care services
6. Education Infrastructure: all categories of schools and higher institutions

**Violation – they’re not one of those**

**That’s a voting issue**

**They explode the topic – there’s hundreds of projects they could build, limiting the topic down is a pre-requisite to the neg being able to adequately prepare for each aff**


=In = Throughout= 
==1NC== 

**In means throughout**
**Words and Phrases 08** (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “In,” Volume 20A, p. 205-215 March 2008, Thomson West)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colo. 1887. In the act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, ect., </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">the word “in” should be construed to mean throughout</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">such counties.</span>

**The means all of the United States**
**Google Dictionary 11** [“The”, __http://www.google.com/#hl=en&authuser=0&q=the&tbs=dfn:1&tbo=u&sa=X&ei=sCgCToT5AsrEswasn9CuDQ&sqi=2&ved=0CCQQkQ4&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=e2cdbf82a93ada0c&biw=1149&bih=696__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Used to refer to a person, place, or thing that is unique - the Queen - the Mona Lisa - the Nile  Denoting a disease or affliction - I've got the flu  (with a unit of time) The present; the current - dish of the day - man of the moment  Used instead of a possessive to refer to someone with whom the speaker or person addressed is associated - I'm meeting the boss - how's the family?  Used with a surname to refer to a family or married couple - the Johnsons were not wealthy  Used before the surname of the chief of a Scottish or Irish clan - the O'Donoghue  Used to point forward to a following qualifying or defining clause or phrase - the fuss that he made of her - the top of a bus - I have done the best I could  (chiefly with rulers and family members with the same name) Used after a name to qualify it - George the Sixth - Edward the Confessor - Jack the Ripper  Used to make a generalized reference to something rather than identifying a particular instance - he taught himself to play the violin - worry about the future  </span>__Used with a__ __singular noun to indicate that it represents a whole species or class__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - they placed the African elephant on their endangered list</span>

**United States means all of the states**
**EPA 06** (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006, [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U]])

__United States__
__When used in the **geographic sense**, means **all** of the States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1019&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=ORG|Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics ]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1&P_DATA_ID=11722&P_VERSION=1&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=INFO|Commercial Chemical Control Rules]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.navigate_term?p_term_id=292529&p_term_cd=TERMDIS|Term Detail]]</span>

**Violation – the aff isn’t throughout the United States**

**That’s a voting issue**

**We preserve limits – they allow for “city of the week” affs that the neg can never predict**