[[toc]]

=Burke= 
==1NC== 

**The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
This essay develops a theory … <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cost and with limited impact -- </span>it permeates being.

**The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
I was motivated to begin …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">insecurity and violence? Will our thought?</span>


=<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Wilderson</span>= 
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marcantonio & Brenman 12</span>, Managing Attorney for Public Advocates Inc., a non-profit public interest law firm in San Francisco, California & former Executive Director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and former Senior Policy Advisor for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation; 2012 (Richard & Marc, “LESSONS FROM THE HISTORY OF TRANSPORTATION JUSTICE”,
[[http://equity.lsnc.net/lessons-from-the-history-of-transportation-justice/]])
Transportation injustice in the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>St<span class="Underline">ates </span>dates back to the involuntary transport of Africans to the <span class="Underline">American </span>colonies. The regulation of transportation was <span class="Underline">not only </span>central to the origins of slavery, but also to its maintenance. For instance, the Fugitive Slave Acts of 1793 and 1850 legislated the return of escaped slaves to their owners. The Underground Railroad took aim at this system by helping to covertly transport enslaved people to their freedom in non-slave states like Canada and Mexico.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="Underline">Even after the Emancipation, a Reconstruction-era effort by Congress to secure “the full and equal enjoyment” of “public conveyances on land or water” was invalidated by the Supreme Court in 1883</span>__.__ As a result, by the late 1890s, railroad cars — like other public facilities — were still designated as white-only in many states. <span class="Underline">In a deliberate act of civil disobedience planned by an organized civil rights committee in New Orleans, Homer </span>Plessy was arrested when he <span class="Underline">boarded, and </span>refused to leave, a white-only train <span class="Underline">car. His suit, </span>Plessy v. Ferguson, led to<span class="Underline"> the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1896 ruling establishing </span>the “separate but equal” doctrine<span class="Underline">, which helped freeze race relations in place for over half a century.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Transportation’s Starring Role in the Modern Civil Rights Movement<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="Underline">The “separate but equal” doctrine was finally struck down in 1954</span> in Brown v. Board of Education__.__ <span class="Underline">Even then, however, </span>efforts to desegregate transportation remained at the heart of civil rights struggles<span class="Underline">. </span>On December 1, 1955, the secretary of the Montgomery, <span class="Underline">Alabama</span>, chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) refused to give up her seat to a white passenger <span class="Underline">on the city bus</span>. <span class="Underline">Although many popular histories portray this as a spur-of-the-moment rebellion, in fact the local NAACP chapter planned it, and chose Rosa Parks to carry it out.</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__<span class="Underline">Ms. Parks’ arrest sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the emergence of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., president of the Montgomery Improvement Association</span> (MIA). In leading the boycott against Montgomery’s bus system, lasting more than a year, Dr. King and the MIA effectively used nonviolent means to apply economic pressure. The group’s demands quickly expanded to encompass more equal access to municipal services that went beyond bus seating.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="Underline">In 1956, the MIA filed suit in federal district court to challenge the constitutionality of local bus segregation laws</span>. Although the court ruled in favor of the MIA in June 1956, the city refused to accept the ruling, sending the case to the Supreme Court. The defendants, represented by a handful of lawyers led by Thurgood Marshall, won a ruling that segregation on city buses was unconstitutional in 1956, just two years after Brown.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>A few years later, in1961<span class="Underline">, a group of activists, both black and white, who called themselves </span>Freedom Riders, tested that verdict<span class="Underline">. They heroically journeyed from Washington, D.C., through the deep South to New Orleans on interstate buses in an effort to desegregate interstate travel facilities</span>. At different terminals the black Freedom Riders would go to white dining areas and waiting rooms, while the white riders went to the areas reserved for blacks. Their actions spurred attacks a<span class="Underline">nd riots by white segregationists, </span>and many <span class="Underline">of the</span> riders were arrested<span class="Underline"> in Jackson, Mississippi, for infractions of the state’s segregation laws. </span>But <span class="Underline">their strategy paid off: </span>that same year, the Interstate Commerce Commission banned segregation in all interstate transportation facilities__.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>New Challenges: White Flight and Urban Renewal<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>By now, the massive metropolitan dislocations of the <span class="Underline">post-World War II period</span> were well under way. A new era in the history of transportation justice grew out the movement of white Americans from urban centers to the newly-emerging suburbs. This “white flight” was no accident, but <span class="Underline">rather </span>was powerfully fueled by federal policies that conferred massive benefits on higher-income whites, at the expense of lower-income people of colo__r__ who remained behind, often involuntarily, in the central cities.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Federal policy, for instance, pouredbillions into <span class="Underline">the creation of </span>the <span class="Underline">interstate </span>highway system, promoting the development of formerly inaccessible exurban farm land with single-family homes. <span class="Underline">While </span>the <span class="Underline">homeowner </span>mortgage tax deduction helped new suburbanites buy those homes, redlining disqualified people of color from receiving the loans to purchase them. Some of <span class="Underline">these </span>new suburban developments were <span class="Underline">expressly designated as </span>“whites only__.__” Other <span class="Underline">important federal benefits</span>, like those of the GI Bill with its low-cost Department of Veterans Affairs loans, <span class="Underline">went primarily to whites</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>The departure of white families from older central city neighborhoods also provoked a hemorrhaging of tax base and private investment from those neighborhoods. <span class="Underline">For the low-income people and people of color who were left behind, that meant under-funded schools, lower levels of municipal service, heavier tax burdens, less access to work, deteriorating housing stock often owned by absentee landlords, and lower levels of safety and health.</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__This drain both of white population and of resources from the central cities set the stage for the disastrous policies of urban renewal, fostered by both local and federal government. Between 1948 and 1973, urban renewal projects displaced one million people in 2,500 neighborhoods in 993 American cities. Of those neighborhoods impacted by the far-reaching federal program, approximately 1,600 were <span class="Underline">predominately </span>African-American. In addition to the severe displacement and loss of homes that urban renewal brought, <span class="Underline">it had the effect of further concentrating and segregating low-income residential areas of cities. </span>Into the <span class="Underline">19</span>40s, 50s, and 60s, <span class="Underline">more </span>exclusionary <span class="Underline">zoning, highway construction, urban renewal, and public housing </span>developments <span class="Underline">further </span>segregated the city and limited opportunities for <span class="Underline">blacks and other </span>people of color. <span class="Underline">Interstate </span>highway construction <span class="Underline">often </span>cut through African-American communities, <span class="Underline">and the freeways erected new barriers to integration.</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__<span class="Underline">The injustice of these projects was two-fold: not only did all of their burdens fall on the most vulnerable communities, but the overwhelming share of their benefits went to suburban commuters. </span>West Oakland provides a good example. Its location at the foot of the Bay Bridge <span class="Underline">to San Francisco </span>made it a target for regional planners who had the welfare of <span class="Underline">commuting </span>suburban professionals, <span class="Underline">not local residents, </span>in mind. After all, the suburban dream was nothing without access to good jobs. Thus, <span class="Underline">while West Oakland was the site of enormous public investment in transportation infrastructure, this </span>investment b<span class="Underline">enefited suburban professionals, and </span>brought only grief to the community. For those who did not lose their homes, the outcome was massive barriers dividing neighborhoods in the form of new freeways linking suburbs to San Francisco, and the railroad tracks for <span class="Underline">the Bay Area Rapid Transit train, known as </span>BART.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__In short, the community got the burdens, but not the benefits, of all that investment. This was true not only of the freeways, but also of BART. In 1977, the Bay Area’s Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC), the regional transportation agency which oversees BART, conducted a study to determine if people of color were benefiting from the region’s new rail service. That report found that <span class="Underline">low income minorities used the system little, even though BART traversed many minority communities, because of the very way it was designed: to carry long distance suburban commuters</span> (who are predominantly white) <span class="Underline">to jobs in downtown San Francisco and Oakland, not to meet the local travel needs of the residents of those minority communities</span>__.____<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__<span class="Underline">The </span>BART <span class="Underline">experience </span>exemplifies <span class="Underline">a common legacy of the urban renewal era, and one that is still operating in many cities today</span>: costly rail systems designed primarily for service from the outlying areas of a metropolitan area are <span class="Underline">promoted and expanded,</span> despite <span class="Underline">the fact </span>that they are <span class="Underline">likely to</span> provide few <span class="Underline">travel </span>advantages for low-income communities of color, and <span class="Underline">often </span>come at the expense of the local bus service <span class="Underline">on which they rely.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative is intrinsically tied to modern ways of understanding – this view cannot take into account the gratuitous violence enacted on the slave. Expanding the inclusionary circle of civil society can never include Blackness because it is founded in contradistinction to it – their humanism is birthed from the murder of the slave. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson ’10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Frank, Associate Professor at UC Irvine’s Department of Drama and African American Studies, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pp. 21-23]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Again, what is important for us to glean from these historians is that the preColumbian period, the Late Middle Ages, reveals no archive of debate on these three questions as they might be related to that massive group of Black-skinned people south of the Sahara. Eltis suggests that there was indeed massive debate which ultimately led to Britain taking the lead in the abolition of slavery, but he reminds us that that debate did not have its roots in the late Middle Ages, the post-Columbian period of the 1500s or the Virginia Colony period of the 1600s. It was, he asserts, an outgrowth of the mid- to late-18th century emancipatory thrust—intra-Human disputes such as the French and American Revolutions—that swept through Europe. But Eltis does not take his analysis further than this. Therefore, it is important that we not be swayed by his optimism of the Enlightenment and its subsequent abolitionist discourses. It is highly conceivable that </span><span class="Underline">the discourse that elaborates the justification for freeing the slave is not the product of the Human being’s having suddenly and miraculously recognized the slave</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rather, as Saidiya Hartman argues, </span><span class="Underline">emancipatory discourses present themselves to us as further evidence of the Slave’s fungibility: “[T]he figurative capacities of blackness enable white flights of fancy while increasing the likelihood of the captive’s disappearance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…” (Scenes…22). First, the questions of Humanism were elaborated in contradistinction to the human void, to the African-quachattel (the 1200s to the end of the 17th century). Then, as the presence of Black chattel in the midst of exploited and un-exploited Humans (workers and bosses, respectively) became a fact of the world, </span><span class="Underline">exploited Humans </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(in the throes of class conflict with un-exploited Humans) </span><span class="Underline">seized the image of the slave as an enabling vehicle that animated the evolving discourses of their emancipation,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> just as un-exploited Humans had seized the flesh of the Slave to increase their profits. </span><span class="Underline">Without this gratuitous violence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a violence that marks everyone experientially until the late Middle Ages when it starts to mark the Black ontologically</span><span class="Underline">, the so-called great emancipatory discourses of modernity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—marxism, feminism, postcolonialism, sexual liberation, and the ecology movement—</span><span class="Underline">political discourses predicated on grammars of suffering and whose constituent elements are exploitation and alienation, might not have developed.vi Chattel slavery</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> did not simply reterritorialize the ontology of the African. It also </span><span class="Underline">created the Human out of culturally disparate entities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from Europe to the East. I am not suggesting that across the globe Humanism developed in the same way regardless of region or culture; what I am saying is that </span>the late Middle Ages gave rise to an ontological category—an ensemble of common existential concerns—which made and continues to make possible both war and peace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, conflict and resolution, between the disparate members of the human race, east and west. Senator Thomas Hart Benton intuited this notion of the existential commons when he wrote that though the “Yellow race” and its culture had been “torpid and stationary for thousands of years… [Whites and Asians] must talk together, and trade together, and marry together. Commerce is a great civilizer—social intercourse as great—and marriage greater” (The Congressional Globe. May 28, 1846). David Eltis points out that as late as the 17th century, “[p]risoners taken in the course of European military action…could expect death if they were leaders, or banishment if they were deemed followers, but never enslavement…Detention followed by prisoner exchanges or ransoming was common” (1413). “By the seventeenth century, enslavement of fellow Europeans was beyond the limits” (1423) of Humanism’s existential commons, even in times of war. Slave status “was reserved for non-Christians. Even the latter group however…had some prospect of release in exchange for Christians held by rulers of Algiers, Tunis, and other Mediterranean Muslim powers” (emphasis mine 1413). But though the practice of enslaving the vanquished was beyond the limit of intra-West wars and only practiced provisionally in East-West conflicts, the baseness of the option was not debated when it came to the African. The race of Humanism (White, Asian, South Asian, and Arab) could not have produced itself without the simultaneous production of that walking destruction which became known as the Black. Put another way, </span>through chattel slavery the world gave birth and coherence to both its joys of domesticity and to its struggles of political discontent<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; and with these joys and struggles, </span>//the Human was born, but not before it murdered the Black////,//forging a symbiosis between the political ontology of Humanity and the social death of Blacks<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his essay “To ‘Corroborate Our Claims’: Public Positioning and the Slavery Metaphor in Revolutionary America,” Peter Dorsey (in his concurrence with cultural historians F. Nwabueze Okoye and Patricia Bradley) suggests that, in mid- to late-18th century America, Blackness was such a fungible commodity that it was traded as freely between the exploited (workers who did not “own” slaves) as it was between the unexploited (planters who did). This was due to the effective uses to which Whites could put the Slave as both flesh and metaphor. For the Revolutionaries, “slavery represented a ‘nightmare’ that white Americans were trying to avoid” (359). Dorsey’s claim is provocative, but not unsupported: he maintains that had Blacks-as-Slaves not been in the White field of vision on a daily basis that it would have been virtually impossible for Whites to transform themselves from colonial subjects into Revolutionaries: Especially prominent in the rhetoric and reality of the [Revolutionary] era, the concepts of freedom and slavery were applied to a wide variety of events and values and were constantly being defined and redefined…[E]arly understandings of American freedom were in many ways dependent on the existence of chattel slavery…[We should] see slavery in revolutionary discourse, not merely as a hyperbolic rhetorical device but as a crucial and fluid [fungible] concept that had a major impact on the way early Americans thought about their political future…The slavery metaphor destabilized previously accepted categories of thought about politics, race, and the early republic. (355) Though the idea of “taxation without representation” may have spoken concretely to the idiom of power that marked the British/American relation as being structurally unethical, it did not provide metaphors powerful and fungible enough for Whites to meditate and move on when resisting the structure of their own subordination at the hands of “unchecked political power” (354). The most salient feature of Dorsey’s findings is not his understanding of the way Blackness, as a crucial and fungible conceptual possession of civil society, impacts and destabilizes previously accepted categories of intra-White thought, but rather his contribution to the evidence that, </span>even when Blackness is deployed to stretch the elasticity of civil society to the point of civil war, that expansion is never elastic enough to embrace the very Black who catalyzed the expansion<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact, Dorsey, building on Patricia Bradley’s historical research, asserts that just the opposite is true.</span>The more the political imagination of civil society is enabled by the fungibility of the slave metaphor, the less legible the condition of the slave becomes:<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Focusing primarily on colonial newspapers…Bradley finds that the slavery metaphor ‘served to distance the patriot agenda from the antislavery movement.’ If anything, Bradley states, widespread use of the metaphor ‘gave first evidence that the issue of real slavery was not to have a part in the revolutionary messages’” (359). And David Eltis believes that this philosophical incongruity between the image of the Slave and freedom for the Slave begins in Europe and pre-dates the American Revolution by at least one hundred years: The [European] countries least likely to enslave their own had the harshest and most sophisticated system of exploiting enslaved non-Europeans. Overall, the English and Dutch conception of the role of the individual in metropolitan society ensured the accelerated development of African chattel slavery in the Americas…because their own subjects could not become chattel slaves or even convicts for life…There may be something to be said for expanding a variation of Edmund Morgan’s argument to cover the whole of the British Atlantic, in the sense that the celebration of British liberties—more specifically, liberties of Englishmen—depended on African slavery. (Emphasis mine 1423) </span><span class="Underline">The circulation of Blackness as metaphor and image at the most politically volatile and progressive moments in history</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g. the French, English, and American Revolutions), </span><span class="Underline">produces dreams of liberation which are more inessential to and more parasitic on the Black</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and more emphatic in their guarantee of Black suffering, than any dream of human liberation in any era heretofore. </span>Black Slavery is foundational to modern Humanism’s ontics because “freedom” is the hub of Humanism’s infinite conceptual trajectorie<span class="Underline">s. But these trajectories</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> only appear to be infinite. They </span><span class="Underline">are finite in the sense that they are predicated on the idea of freedom from… some contingency that can be named,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or at least conceptualized. The contingent rider could be </span><span class="Underline">freedom from patriarchy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, freedom from </span>economic exploitation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, freedom from political tyranny (for example, taxation without representation), freedom from </span><span class="Underline">heteronormativity, and so on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. What I am suggesting is that first, </span>political discourse recognizes freedom as a structuring ontologic and then it works to disavow this recognition by imagining freedom not through political ontology<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—where it rightfully began—</span><span class="Underline">but through political experience</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and practice); </span><span class="Underline">whereupon it immediately loses its ontological foundations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Why would anyone do this? Why would anyone start off with, quite literally, an earth-shattering ontologic and, in the process of meditating on it and acting through it, reduce it to an earth reforming experience? Why do Humans take such pride in self-adjustment, in diminishing, rather than intensifying, the project of liberation (how did we get from ’68 to the present)? Because, </span><span class="Underline">I contend, i</span>n allowing the notion of freedom to attain the ethical purity of its ontological status, one would have to lose one’s Human coordinates and become Black.Which is to say one would have to di<span class="Underline">e. For the Black, freedom is an ontological, rather than experiential, question. </span>There is no philosophically credible way to attach an experiential, a contingent, rider onto the notion of freedom when one considers the Blac<span class="Underline">k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—such as freedom from gender or economic oppression. The kind of contingent riders rightfully placed on the non-Black when thinking freedom. Rather, </span><span class="Underline">the riders that one could place on Black freedom would be hyperbolic— though no less true—and ultimately untenable: i.e., freedom from the world, freedom from humanity, freedom from everyone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (including one’s Black self). Given the reigning episteme, what are the chances of elaborating a comprehensive, much less translatable and communicable, political project out of the necessity of freedom as an absolute</span><span class="Underline">? </span>Gratuitous freedom has never been a trajectory of Humanist thought, which is why the infinite trajectories of freedom that emanate from Humanism’s hub are anything but infinite—for they have no line of flight leading to the Slave<span class="Underline">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anti-Blackness structurally underpins all violence—while racialized violence is still a daily reality for people caught in the position of the slave, the rhetoric of “oppression” or “exploitation” alone asks only how we might redeem this failed American experiment. Vote negative to destroy the foundations of understanding as we know them. There is no analogy for the structural suffering of the slave, meaning authentic engagement with social violence must begin with the anti-human void known as Blackness</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pak 2012</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yumi, PhD in literature from UC-San Diego, “Outside Relationality: Autobiographical Deformations and the Literary Lineage of Afro-pessimism in 20th and 21st Century African American Literature,” Dissertation through Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because the four authors I examine focus intensively on untangling and retangling the nexus of race, gender, and sexuality in autobiographical narratives, this project originally relied most heavily on the frameworks provided by queer theory and performance studies, as the structural organization and methodology behind both disciplines offered the characteristic of being “‘inter’ – in between... intergenric [sic], interdisciplinary, intercultural – and therefore inherently unstable” (“What is Performance Studies Anyway?” 360). My abstract ideation of the dissertation was one which conceptualized the unloosening of the authors’ respective texts from the ways in which they have been read in particular genres. Yet the investigative progression of my research redirected me to question the despondency I found within Toomer, Himes, Baldwin and Jones’ novels, a despondency and sorrow that seemed to reach beyond the individual and collective purportedly represented in these works. </span><span class="Underline">What does it mean,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they seem to speculate, </span><span class="Underline">to suffer beyond the individual, beyond the collective, and into the far reaches of paradigmatic structure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span><span class="Underline">What does it mean to exist beyond “social oppression” and veer</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> instead </span><span class="Underline">into</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what Frank B. Wilderson, III calls “</span><span class="Underline">structural suffering</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Red, White & Black 36)? Briefly, Wilderson utilizes what he calls Frantz Fanon’s splitting of “the hair[s] between social oppression and structural suffering”; in other words, </span><span class="Underline">Wilderson refutes the possibility of analogizing blackness with any other positionality in the world. Others may be oppressed, indeed, may suffer</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> experientially, </span><span class="Underline">but only the black, the paradigmatic slave, suffers structurally</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Afro-pessimism, the theoretical means by which I attempt to answer this query, provides the integral term and parameters with which I bind together queer theory, performance studies, and autobiography studies in order to propose a re-examination of these authors and their texts. </span>The structural suffering of blackness seeps into all elements of American history, culture, and life<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and thus I begin my discussion with an analysis of Hortense Spillers’ concept of an American grammar in “Mama’s Baby, Papa’s Maybe: An American Grammar Book.” </span>To theorize blackness is to begin with the slave ship, in a space that is in actuality no place<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.7 In discussing the transportation of human cargo across the Middle Passage, Spillers writes that this physical theft of bodies was “a willful and violent (and unimaginable from this distance) severing of the captive body from its motive will, its active desire” (Spillers 67). She contends here that </span>in this mass gathering and transportation, what becomes illuminated is not only the complete and total deracination of native from soil, but rather the evisceration of subjectivity from blackness<span class="Underline">, the evacuation of will and desire from the body; in other words, we see that even before the black body there is flesh</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “that zero degree of social conceptualization that does not escape concealment under the brush of discourse, or the reflexes of iconography” (67). </span>Black flesh, which arrives in the United States to be manipulated and utilized as slave bodies, is “a primary narrative<span class="Underline">” with its “seared, divided, ripped-apartness, riveted to the ship’s hole, fallen, or ‘escaped’ overboard”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (67). </span><span class="Underline">These markings</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – “lacerations, woundings, fissures, tears, scars, openings, ruptures, lesions, rendings, punctures of the flesh” – </span><span class="Underline">are indicative of the sheer scale of the structural violence amassed against blackness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and from this beginning Spillers culls an “American grammar” that grounds itself in the “rupture and a radically different kind of cultural continuation,” a grammar that is the fabric of blackness in the United States (67, 68). As Wilderson observes, “Africans went into the ships and came out as Blacks” (Red, White & Black 38). In other words</span><span class="Underline">, in the same moment they are (re)born as blacks, they are doomed to death as slaves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This rupture, I argue, is evident in the definitions of slavery set forth by Orlando Patterson in his seminal volume, Slavery and Social Death: natal alienation, general dishonor and openness to gratuitous violence. The captive body, which is constructed with torn flesh, is laid bare to any and all, and it is critical to note here that Patterson, in line with Afro-pessimists, does not align slavery with labor. The slave can – and did – work, but what defines him/her as such is that as a dishonored and violated object, the master’s whims for him/her to work, or not work, can be carried out without ramifications. Rather, </span><span class="Underline">the slave’s powerlessness is heightened to the greatest possible capacity, wherein s/he is marked by social death and the “permanent, violent domination” of their selves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patterson 13). Spillers’ “radically different kind of cultural continuation” finds an articulation of the object status of blackness in the United States, one which impugns the separation of “slave” and “black.” As Jared Sexton and Huey Copeland inquire, “[h]ow might it feel to be... a scandal to ontology, an outrage to every marker of the human? What, in the final analysis, does it mean to suffer?” (Sexton and Copeland 53). </span>Blackness functions as a scandal to ontology because<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Wilderson states, </span>black suffering forms the ethical backbone of civil society<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> He writes, [c]hattel </span>slavery<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> did not simply reterritorialize the ontology of the African. It also </span>created the Human<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> out of cultural disparate identities from Europe to the East... Put another way, through chattel slavery </span>the world gave birth and coherence to both its joys of domesticity and to its struggles of political discontent, and with these joys and struggles<span class="Underline">, the Human was born, but not before it murdered the Black, forging a symbiosis between the political ontology of Humanity and the social death of Blacks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (Red, White & Black 20 – 21) Again, the African is made black, and in this murder both ontological and physical, humanity gains its coherence. </span><span class="Underline">It </span>isnot <span class="Underline">my intention (nor of other Afro-pessimists) to </span>argue that violence has only ever been committed against black indi<span class="Underline">viduals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and communities in the United States, or in the world, </span>but rather that the structural suffering that defines blackness, the violence enacted against blackness to maintain its positioning outside of civil society, that demarcates the black as slave, has no horizontal equivalent and, indeed, provides the logical ethos of existence for all othered subjectivities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; by this I mean that all </span>other subjects<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and I use this word quite intentionally) </span>retain a body and not the zero degree of flesh<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Sexton writes, “we might say of the colonized: you may lose your motherland, but you will not ‘lose your mother’ (Hartman 2007)” (“The Curtain of the Sky” 14). This is precisely why Sexton offers the succinct definition of Afro-pessimism as “a political ontology dividing the Slave from the world of the Human in a constitutive way” (“The Social Life of Social Death” 23). Furthermore, </span><span class="Underline">Afro-pessimists contest the idea that the modern world is one wherein the price of labor determines the price of being equally for all people. In this capitalistic reading of the world, we summon blacks back into civil society by utilizing Marxism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to assume “a subaltern structured by capital, not by white supremacy” (“Gramsci’s Black Marx” 1). </span><span class="Underline">While it is undeniable, of course, that black bodies and labor were used to aid in the economic growth of the United States, we return again to the point that what defines enslavement is accumulation and fungibility, alongside natal alienation, general dishonor, and openness to gratuitous violence; the slave, then, is not constituted as part of the class struggle</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.8 While it is true “that labor power is exploited and that the worker is alienated in it,” it is also true that “workers labor on the commodity, they are not the commodity itself is, their labor power is” (Red, White & Black 50). The slave is, then, invisible within this matrix, and, to a more detrimental effect, invisible within the ontology of lived subjects entirely. </span>The slave cannot be defined as loss<span class="Underline"> – as can the postcolonial subject, the woman, or the immigrant – </span>but can only be configured as lack<span class="Underline">, </span>as there is no potential for synthesis within a rubric of antagonism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Wilderson sets up the phrase “rubric of </span><span class="Underline">antagonism”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in opposition to “rubric of conflict” to clarify the positionality of blacks outside relationality. The former </span><span class="Underline">is “</span>an irreconcilable struggle between entities, or positions, the resolution of which is not dialectical but entails the obliteration of one of the position<span class="Underline">s,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” whereas the latter is “a rubric of problems that can be posed and conceptually solved” (Red, White & Black 5). He continues, “[i]f a Black is the very antithesis of a Human subject... then his or her paradigmatic exile is not simply a function of repressive practices on the part of institutions” (9). Integrating Hegel and Marx, and returning to Spillers, Wilderson argues that within this grammar of suffering, the slave is not a laborer but what he calls “anti- Human, against which Humanity establishes, maintains, and renews its coherence, its corporeal integrity” (11). </span>In contrast to<span class="Underline"> imagining the black other </span>in opposition to whiteness<span class="Underline">, Wilderson and other Afro-pessimists theorize </span>blackness as being absent in the dialectic, as “anti-Human.”