**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 30px;">WESTMINSTER HW</span>**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Bryant Wang|H]]ome
[[toc]]
=**Politics**= 
==**Cybersecurity (UGA)**== 
==**1NC**== 
**Cyber security legislation will pass – momentum from recent attacks has changed the debate**
**Smith 2/1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gerry Smith 02/ 1/2012 “Cybersecurity Legislation Gaining 'Momentum' In Congress” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/02/01/cybersecurity-legislation-congress_n_1247147.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After introducing dozens of cybersecurity … ," Rockefeller said. "</span>__We have momentum."__


**Political capital is key – must work out differences in competing approaches**
**Levin 2/8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mintz Levin on 2/8/2012 “Legislative Update – Cybersecurity” http://www.jdsupra.com/post/documentViewer.aspx?fid=0a38a729-5e76-4261-8263-e371f4cbff87</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the 112th Congress gets … </span>__passing a cybersecurity bill__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this year.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cyber-attacks cause economic collapse and extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Adhikari 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Richard Adhikari 12/02/09 “Civilization's High Stakes Cyber-Struggle: Q&A With Gen. Wesley Clark (ret.)” http://www.technewsworld.com/story/68787.html</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The conflicts in the Middle </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">vitality and</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ultimately, </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">global civilization.</span>__</span>


==**Tax Cuts (Grady)**== 
==**1NC**== 
**PTC will pass now but Obama’s capital is key**
**Weisman 1/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/ 2012 [NYT Columnist, “Parties Confident of Extending Payroll Tax Cut,” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/18/us/politics/congress-sees-few-barriers-to-extending-payroll-tax-cut.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]]]</span>

__With both parties largely in … people think,”__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr. Van Hollen said.</span>


**Tax cut key to the economy**
**Hill 12/28-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2011 [Patrice, staff writer, “Economists fear withdrawal symptoms if payroll-tax cut vanishes,” The Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/dec/28/economists-fear-withdrawal-symptoms-if-payroll-tax/?page=all#pagebreak]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was the tax cut that nobody ...</span>__r relatively brisk spending__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>


**Impact is Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">**Auslin 09** –</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What do thes...</span> that coalesce into a big bang<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>
===<span class="UnderlineChar">2NC Cards</span>=== 
====**Uniqueness Arguments**==== 

**Will pass – Obama’s maneuvering and pc ensures it will get done**
**Forbes 1/12/**2012 [Merrill Matthews is a resident scholar at the Institute for Policy Innovation in Dallas, Texas.
How Obama Sucker Punched Republicans on the Budget [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillmatthews/2012/01/12/how-obama-sucker-punched-republicans-on-the-budget/2/]]]

__What a difference a year can make__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__cut and raise another reduction__.”


**PTC top of agenda.**
**Pelosi 1/18****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2012 [Nancy, “News Conference Transcript” CQ Transcriptions]</span>

__Here we are back to … in a short period of time__.


**No Fights – Nothing other than payroll on the agenda – republicans are too weak and they don’t want to be embarrassed on tax cuts again**
**The Hill 1/17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2012 [Russell Berman GOP returns with New Year’s hangover</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://thehill.com/homenews/house/204437-gop-returns-with-new-years-hangover]</span>

__House Republicans return to Washington__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__of the payroll tax cut.__


**Will pass – Obama’s maneuvering and pc ensures it will get done**
**Forbes 1/12/**2012 [Merrill Matthews is a resident scholar at the Institute for Policy Innovation in Dallas, Texas.
How Obama Sucker Punched Republicans on the Budget [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillmatthews/2012/01/12/how-obama-sucker-punched-republicans-on-the-budget/2/]]]

__What a difference a year can make__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__cut and raise another reduction__.”


**Republicans are too weak to stop the momentum**
**Davis 1/09**/2012 [Susan Davis, House GOP struggles with how to legislate
[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2012-01-09/house-republican-majority/52509262/1]] ]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Republicans worked last year to … at the end of February.</span>
==== ==== 
====**Link Arguments**==== 
=====**AT: DoD Shields**===== 
**Defense spending is unpopular – Obama gets the blame**

**Boyle** **11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Corrin 11** </span>Amber Corrin 11 Mar. "DOD, Congress at Odds over Defense Budget Cuts -- Defense Systems." Mar 11. 2011. Web. 22 July. <http://defensesystems.com/articles/2011/03/14/homepage-defense-fiscal-2012-budget-cuts.aspx>.</span>

__Recent polls have shown that …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in federal budget cuts overall.</span>

=====**China Cooperation**===== 
**Plan is unpopular – Congress just passed a continuing resolution to ban all funding for China space cooperation**
**Foust 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jeff, Editor and publisher of the Space Review online journal, 5/5/</span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">11</span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “What’s the future of US-China cooperation in space?”, [[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/05/05/whats-the-future-of-us-china-cooperation-in-space/]]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">One of the few specific … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a huge problem on your hands.”</span>

=====**Environmental Monitoring**===== 

<span class="Underline">**Environmental monitoring is highly unpopular: Congress is against all climate legislation, and the launch failures caused them to consider the program wasteful**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore and Rogers 8/1**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. government must find innovative … two U.S. universities for around 100,000 dollars.</span>

**Budget austerity guarantees backlash against the plan.**
**Morello 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauren, Climatewire and Scientific American, “How Failure of Climate Satellite Sets Back Earth Science, March 7th, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=failure-climate-satellite-sets-back-earth-science, MBIBAS)</span>

__The crash__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Friday </span>__of NASA's …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ... I don't think you can sugarcoat it."</span>

**The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.**
**Boyle** **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Sawyer)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amid all this, </span>the country’s<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">danger of losing its funding.</span>

=====**Lunar Mining**===== 

**Lunar Mining is unpopular and entails high political risk**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gass 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Henry Gass, contributor for The Ecologist, July 7, 2011, “Plans to Strip Mine the Moon May Soon be More Than Just Science-Fiction,” http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=25542</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘This will not be … </span><span class="Underline">to fund with limited budgets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====**Debris**===== 

**Space debris mitigation has no political support. Lawmakers will only accept international action and international action will still make them angry because of cost-sharing**
**Ansdell 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- grad student in the Master in International Science and Technology Policy program at the George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs (Megan, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment”, [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)JCP|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)JCP]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span>__implementing … will beneﬁt from its removal.__

=====**SPS**===== 

**SPS is politically unpopular—energy interests opposition and perceived as too long term**
**Schubert 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—PhD in computer and electrical engineering, investigates recipients of federal grant money for energy projects (Winter 2010, Peter, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP”, Issue No. 16, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , FS)</span>

__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pace </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">olar </span>__P__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ower will be ... to prepare for the miracle.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Legal issues ensure a political battle**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wallach 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark I. Wallach, Winter 2010, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power”, Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.html)</span>
With the<span class="Underline"> extraordinary </span>financial stakes … <span class="Underline">, state legislatures, and </span>the **U.S. Congress**.

**Long timeframe wrecks political support for the plan**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter J. </span>**Schubert, ’10,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])</span>

__Space Solar Power will be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to prepare for the miracle.</span>

**Economics prevent congressional support for SSP**
**Mahan 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rob, creator of citizens for //Space Based// Solar Power, C-SBSP, http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/)</span>
__The financial solution will admittedly … the highest hurdle of all.__

**Congress won’t support – oil and coal lobbies**
**Mankins 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John C., Spring 2008, Ad Astra, “Space Based Solar Power” http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AD ASTRA: In light of … </span>__limitless energy__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from the sun</span>

**SPS drains Political Capital**
**Preble 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Darel, Space Solar Power Institute, “Introduction to the motion to the National Space Society Board of Directors,” 12/15 NM </span>
__Changing our nation and our … omelet without breaking a few eggs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====**SBMD**===== 

**<span class="Underline">SBMD is unpopular – obscenely expensive an technically infeasible</span>**
**Grego, 6/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 – Laura, staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists ([[http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/6105337195/space-based-missile-defense-still-a-bad-idea]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While $8 million is small money … </span>to even be considered <span class="Underline">seriously.</span>



====**Winners Lose**==== 

**Winners lose – specifically true for Obama**
**Podhoretz 1/6/2012 [**John Podhoretz This power grab’s a sign of weakness
http://www.nypost.com/p/news/opinion/opedcolumnists/this_power_grab_sign_of_weakness_B95SE4zOZsyjuJxn63PSEO#ixzz1ineEzrYx]

__Obama lost his ability to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in 2008 to 16 points against in 2010.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama’s Velcro---only blame stick to him---means winners lose---healthcare proves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nicholas & Hook 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Peter and Janet, Staff Writers – LA Times, “Obama the Velcro president”, LA Times, 7-30, http://articles.latimes.com/2010/jul/30/nation/la-na-velcro-presidency-20100730/3</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">If</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Ronald </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Reagan was</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the … translated into dinner table conversations."</span>

====**Impact Arguments**==== 

**High probability and guarantees extinction**
<span class="tagChar">**Mootry 10/8**</span> [Primus, B.A. Northern Illinois University “Americans likely to face more difficult times” - The Herald Bulletin, http://www.theheraldbulletin.com/columns/local_story_282184703.html?keyword=secondarystory]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">These are difficult times. The … evidence has been gender paraphrased].</span>


**Turns every impact in the debate**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Silk 93</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, Professor of Economics – Pace University, “Dangers of Slow Growth”, Foreign Affairs, 72(1), Winter, p. 173-174)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">In the absence of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such … and open economies and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">societies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Turns US/China cooperation and sparks war**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Mead 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy – Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger”, The New Republic, 2-4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The greatest danger</span> both <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">to …</span> still <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">have to fight</span>.

**Economic collapse makes rogue prolif inevitable – causing nuclear war**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Freidberg 08</span>** (Aaron, Professor of Politics and International Relations – Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, Wall Street Journal, 10-21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)

With the global financial system … __tag of continued__ <span class="Heading3Char">__American leadership__</span>__.__

**Stagnant growth turns every environmental crisis**
**Sanders 90** - Senior Fellow of the World Policy Institute (Jerry, Bulletin of Peace Proposals, May)

__Among the__ __poorest countries__, particularly … regimes of the Third World.


**Obama’s tax cut and unemployment benefit provisions are key to spurring entrepreneurship and innovation**
<span class="Heading2Char">**Friedman 10/28**/11</span> (Robert, founder/chair of Corporation of Enterprise Development, The Hill, "President's jobs bill is trailblazing policy for the real job creators," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/labor/190525-presidents-jobs-bill-is-trailblazing-policy-for-the-real-job-creators?tmpl=component&print=1&page=)

In fact, the<span class="UnderlineChar"> American </span>Jobs … . And many are barely scraping by.


**<span class="Heading2Char">That’s key to US hegemony</span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Segal 04</span>** (Adam, Senior Fellow in China Studies – Council on Foreign Relations, “Is America Losing Its Edge?”, Foreign Affairs, November / December, Lexis)

The U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">tates' </span>global primacy … <span class="UnderlineChar">fostering </span>technological entrepreneurshipat home.


=START DA= 
==**1NC**== 

**European missile defense puts Russia’s participation in the START treaty on the brink**
**RIA Novasti 12/8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Russian Newspaper, “Medvedev's missile shield remarks may be election rhetoric - NATO chief,” December 8, 2011, [[http://en.ria.ru/world/20111208/169468939.html]] //ACS)//</span>

//__The NATO secretary general said … **treaty with the United States.**__//

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBMD will cause Russia to withdraw from START</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 11</span>** //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research Intern for the Project on Nuclear Issues(Jonah, May 25, “Why Numbers Matter”, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://csis.org/blog/why-numbers-matter]]</span> </span>//ACS)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Last week Russian General Andrei … </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">may need to be reconsidered.</span>


**The impact is accidental nuclear war via nuclear reductions and cooperative relations—START is key**
**Rojansky and Collins** **10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew and James, executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America + director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the Carnegie Endowment for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Peace, "START is key to reducing the nuclear threat," http://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/81321-start-is-key-to-reducing-the-nuclear-threat?tmpl=component&print=1&page=)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But arguments from both hawks … </span>__is__ <span class="UnderlineChar">**where we must begin.**</span>


**US/Russia war would lead to extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President … in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

==2NC== 
===<span style="font-size: 110%;">**Link**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**Independent of START, space weaponization drastically increases the chance of Russia accidental nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">**Graham 2005**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- a former special representative of the president for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas Graham, “Space Weapons and The Risk of Accidental Nuclear War” 2005, page 12)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">Both the ... States.</span>

===Uniqueness=== 

<span class="Underline">**Agreement of Missile defense cooperation with Russia will occur this year**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rogin 1/12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">covers national security and foreign policy and writes the daily Web column The Cable (Josh Rogin, January 12, 2012, “Tauscher: We will get a missile defense agreement with Russia, [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/blog/11505]], DR. H)</span>

The U<span class="Underline">nited</span> S<span class="Underline">tates </span>a...<span class="Underline">d stability.'"</span>


<span class="Underline">**Relations Resilient—START is doing great plus strategic talks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rogin 1/12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">covers national security and foreign policy and writes the daily Web column The Cable (Josh Rogin, January 12, 2012, “Tauscher: We will get a missile defense agreement with Russia, [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/blog/11505]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tauscher also said...</span><span class="Underline"> are good." </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Current BMD isn’t enough to trigger the link—increased development would reverse the trend of cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Research Intern for the Project on Nuclear Issues (Jonah, Jul 19, “Russia's Nuclear Forces and Doctrine”, [[http://csis.org/blog/russias-strategic-nuclear-forces-and-doctrine]] //ACS)//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Podvig also spends a ... outcome</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>//

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Impact</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">START has been successful in nuclear arms reduction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gottemoeller 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">–Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Rose, Statement at the Annual Security Review Conference, July 1, 2011, http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/167477.htm </span>ACS)

__<span style="color: #252525;">By far, th..,,</span>____<span style="color: #252525;">ear weapons</span>__<span style="color: #252525; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


**START is key to CTR – solves accidental and unauthorized launches**
**Rudney and Stanley, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - National Institute for Public Policy (Robert and Willis, “Dealerting Proposals for Strategic Nuclear Forces: A Critical Analysis,” Comparative Strategy 19:1, informaworld)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Expansion of the ...s reducing risks of proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [136].</span>



=Militarization DA= 
==**1NC**== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a … cooperation would be more likely. </span>


**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

==<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">2NC</span>== 
===<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Turns</span>=== 

**A space war will render space unusable for centuries and wreck commercial space even if debris was mitigated**
**Milowicki and Johnson-Freese, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– both professors at the US Naval War College (Gene and Joan, Astropolitics 6:1-21, “ STRATEGIC CHOICES: EXAMINING THE UNITED STATES MILITARY RESPONSE TO THE CHINESE ANTI-SATELLITE TEST,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alternatively, heading down a path of conflict ... must be a priority.</span>

**A space war will render all of space unusable for thousands of years**
**Forden, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the short-term ...</span>__of years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.14</span>

**War turns warming – increases dependence on fossil fuels**
**Herizons 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Pink turns green” Herizons, Publication Date: 01-JAN-08. pg. http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">33712860_ITM] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The U.S. women's ...," concludes CODEPINK.]</span>

**SPS will be destroyed in space war**
**Pop 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.5. Self Defence of ...r powerplants”42.</span>

**SPS will be nuked before it’s deployed**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Rako 08 – </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">technical editor of Electronics Design, Strategy, and News (Paul, “Solar power in space, a really stupid idea,” 7/25, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.edn.com/blog/1700000170/post/1830030583.html</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">I will try to ...</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">space.</span>__

===Uniqueness=== 

**Obama’s NSP is pursuing cooperation now – creates a new framework for space governance**
**Lewis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Fellow and Director Technology and Public Policy Program Center for Strategic and International Studies (James, High Frontier, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span>

__The Obama a...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ld War.</span>


**Solidifying cooperative norms is vital to reducing threat perceptions and preventing war**
**Rendleman and Faulconer, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *retired USAF Colonel AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">President of Strategic Space Solutions, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">over 31 years in the aerospace industry (James and Walter, “Improving international space cooperation: Considerations for the USA,” Space Policy 26 (2010) 143-151, Science Direct)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For thousands of years, tribes, ...</span>__directions.__

===AT: X-37b=== 
**Everyone believes that space has not been weaponized – the aff crosses a critical threshold**
**Houpt 11****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Editor of Security Studies Online and M.A. in Security Studies (Danny, August 9, “Discerning China’s Unstated Definition of the ‘Weaponization of Space’”, [[http://securitystudiesonline.com/2011/08/09/discerning-chinas-unstated-definition-of-the-weaponization-of-space/]] WSX)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately,</span><span class="Underline"> in ...</span> space.


=<span style="text-align: left;">Debris DA</span>= 
**Japanese fishing nets increase control over space debris now**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Telegraph 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8296288/Fishing-net-to-collect-space-debris.html]] CB</span>

A__giant net<span class="Underline"> several kilometres … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">caught up in the net.”</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Each new launch risks space debris</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Jaggard 10** – National Geographic</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victoria Jaggard, National Geographic News Writer, 3-28-2010, “Tiny Solar Sail Pitched to Clean Up Space Junk,” National Geographic, http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2010/03/28/tiny_solar_sail_pitched_to_cle/</span>

Collisions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with even a small speck </span>… <span class="Underline">from satellites surrounded by junk</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Space debris turns all of aff solvency**
**Guardian.co.uk 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – famous news agency (2/24/08, Ian O’Neill, “Space Debris May be Catastrophic to Future Missions (and Google Earth is Watching…)” http://www.universetoday.com/12933/space-debris-may-be-catastrophic-to-future-missions-and-google-earth-is-watching/) CB</span>

__Kessler Syndrome could be a frightening …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">find out what I mean… </span>

==2nc Turns Case== 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Debris impacts destroy satellites</span>**
**Levinger, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – BA from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Josh, “Current Status of International Efforts to Mitigate Space Debris”, [[http://www.levinger.net/josh/files/writing/space-debris.pdf|www.levinger.net/josh/files/writing/space-debris.pdf]], AL]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Orbital debris, though small, can … </span>__far cheaper than a later cleanup.__
==2nc Asteroids== 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Congress engaging in detection and deflection efforts</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CBS News 8 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12/18, “Scientists Seek Asteroid Detection, Defense” http://www.cbn.com/CBNnews/504327.aspx</span>

<span class="Underline">The nation's top scientists are … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">knock the asteroid off course </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Debris prevents these efforts**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Pusey 10** – JD Candidate @ Colorado</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Natalie Pusey, JD Candidate @ Colorado, 2010, “NOTE & COMMENT: The Case for Preserving Nothing: The Need for a Global Response to the Space Debris Problem,” 2010, Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, Lexis</span>

<span class="Underline">Space debris is </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span><span class="Underline">a form … **obscure ground-based astronomical observation**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 66</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Asteroids destroy all future humanity- magnitude necessitates action even if the probability is low</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Matheny 07** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]])</span>

__Even if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.__

=Ozone DA= 
==1NC== 

**Ozone hole closing now**
**PIB 8/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Press Information Bureau of Government of India (8/29/2011, Ministry of Environment and Forests, “Ozone Layer Hole”, [[http://pib.nic.in/newsite/erelease.aspx?relid=75248]]) CB</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Based on scientific findings on</span>__ __… **on the path of recovery**.__

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Increased launches collapse ozone**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Ross and Zittell 2k** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both PhDs in relevant fields</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> –</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, [[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html]]</span>

Rocket emissions have two distinct … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Thomas 06** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, [[http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm]]</span>

<span class="Underline">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns … </span>shielding—but the stratosphere itself.