<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[toc]]
</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [[2012-2013 - Dowling Catholic (IA) - Jon Langel & Simon Sheaff|Back to Dowling SL Main Page]]</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dedev</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-1NC]]1NC</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Growth is bad – 3 reasons:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Warming – that causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Taylor, 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Graeme, Master’s degree in Conflict Analysis and Management, Coordinator of BEST Future, “Evolution’s Edge: The Coming Collapse and Transformation of Our World,” Pomegranate Press, pg. 35-37, ebrary, pdf, Tashma)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Human </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic activities are raising</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> ...remove carbon from the air. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Great power nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Djordjevic 98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Interdisciplinary Minor in Global Sustainability Senior Seminar University of California, Irvine, (Johnny, March, “Sustainability,”[[http://www.dbc.uci.edu/sustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The threat of nuclear war and ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> are increasing</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"(Trainer, 1985).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c. Biodiversity collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Tacconi, 2k</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Luca, Associate Professor in environmental governance and Director of the Asia Pacific Network for Environmental Governance, “Biodiversity and Ecological Economics,” Earthscan Publications, pg. 12-13, Tashma)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Some </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">authors have considered the ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and supporting species</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Norgaard, 1988).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Young 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - PhD coastal marine ecology (Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Different species within ecosystems maintain ... of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Growth is unsustainable – 5 reasons:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Tech doesn’t solve</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Taylor, 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Graeme, Master’s degree in Conflict Analysis and Management, Coordinator of BEST Future, “Evolution’s Edge: The Coming Collapse and Transformation of Our World,” Pomegranate Press, pg. 84-85, ebrary, pdf, Tashma)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We will not be able to avoid</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> be satisfied with enough</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Increased complexity and diminishing returns</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mackenzie 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – BBC correspondent quoting a ton of people including archaeologist at University of Utah, Salt Lake City and author of The Collapse of Complex Societies, also quoting the head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge (4/5, Deborah, “Are we doomed?”, EBSCO)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">History is not on our side...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">its limit, things fell apart.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c. Realism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Li 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Assistant Professor Department of Economics, University of Utah (Minqui, paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010, “The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism”)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">suppose a set of right ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> to help their emission reductions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">d. Biophysical limits</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Korowicz 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">–, physicist and human systems ecologist, the director of The Risk/Resilience Network in Ireland, a board member of FEASTA, The Foundation for the Economics of Sustainability. (David “In the world, at the limits to growth,” 5/14/11, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.feasta.org/2011/05/14/in-the-world-at-the-limits-to-growth/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)//AP//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">It’s been part of the ... and further from our grasp.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">f. Peak coal by 2025 -- causes energy insecurity and global collapse.</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simms 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Andrew studied at the London School of Economics and has worked for a variety of development and environmental organizations, including Oxfam and the International Institute for Environment and Development and has been a regular contributor to the International Red Cross’s annual World Disasters Report. He is a board member of Greenpeace UK and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) Europe. He is also a member of the Green New Deal Group.(Andrew, “Growth Isn’t Possible”, NEF, January 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://neweconomics.org/sites/neweconomics.org/files/Growth_Isnt_Possible.pdf)/sjl|http://neweconomics.org/sites/neweconomics.org/files/Growth_Isnt_Possible.pdf)//sjl]]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span><span class="underline">scenario seldom discussed is ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">carbon into the atmosphere.283</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Collapse solves – 3 reasons:</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Only econ collapse solves our extinction risks</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Djordjevic, ‘98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Johnny, March, BA Global Economics, Paper in Global Sustainability at UC, Irvine. “Sustainability,” Senior Seminar for Instructor: Peter A. Bowler, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dbc.uci.edu/~sustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Max Weber believed in the power ...</span><span class="underline"> will cease to support life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Collapse sooner rather than later key to prevent extinction</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barry 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-(Glen, President and Founder of Ecological Internet, "Economic Collapse And Global Ecology" 1/14/8,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Humanity and the Earth are ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> more fragile than it looks.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c. It’s linear -- the longer we wait, the worse it will be.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Barry, ‘10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Glen, R President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University, “Resisting Global Ecological Change,” 5 January 2010)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">human family faces</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> imminent ... Earth remains to be renewed.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-2NC Overview]]Overview</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming causes full-scale nuclear conflict via miscalculation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Smith, 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of Security Strategies at the Naval War College, former associate/assistant professor with the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies (Paul, “ The geopolitics of climate change: power transitions, conflict and the future of military activities,” Conflict, Security, & Development,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/14678802.2011.593810]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, //JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">nexus between climate change ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> on actual or perceived resource scarcities</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-Growth Bad - Disease]]Growth Bad - Disease</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth is the precondition for global disease spread; even if they access a disease internal link, it has a smaller magnitude</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hamburg 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – MD, FDA Commissioner (Margaret, "Germs go global", </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Globalization, the worldwide </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">movement ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> people were placed in quarantine. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disease spread will cause extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Leather, 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> 10/12/11 (Tony, “The Inevitable Pandemic” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://healthmad.com/conditions-and-diseases/the-inevitable-pandemic/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, PZ)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">You will have </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">picture</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">d </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">this ... though it seems doubtful at best.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-A2: Infinite Resources]]A2: Infinite Resources</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if resources become infinite – collapse is inevitable</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Bardi 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of Physical Chemistry at the University of Florence in Italy (Ugo, The Limits to Growth Revisited pg 43-44)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The first set of possibilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and the lowering of agricultural yields</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extraction costs make any benefits to infinite resources irrelevant</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Bardi 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of Physical Chemistry at the University of Florence in Italy (Ugo, The Limits to Growth Revisited pg 69)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the functional model fails ... improvements</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> or economies of scale.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-A2: Trickle Down]]A2: Trickle Down</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trickle down effect fails -- depletes resources and increases the rich/poor gap.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Trainer 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Conjoint Lecturer in the School of Social Sciences, University of New South Wales, (Ted, “The radical implications of a zero growth economy”, Real-World Economics Review, issue no. 57, 2011, [[http://www.paecon.net/PAEReview/issue57/Trainer57.pdf]]) //RI</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“But look at China!” Yes ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> have collapsed long ago.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-A2: Kuznets Curve]]A2: Kuznets Curve</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kuznets curve theory is </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">wrong</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – doesn’t take into account </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">destructive</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> pollutants like carbon dioxide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Speth, 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (James Gustave, former dean of the Yale School of Forestry, former Professor of Law at Georgetown University, teaching environmental law, former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality for the President, cofounder of the Natural Resources Defense Council, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability,” Yale University Press, pg. 56-57, Tashma)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The view that economic growth ...the relevant income range.”</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Dedev-A2: Trainer Bad]]A2: Trainer Bad</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their authors gloss over Trainer’s literature – his ideas are </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">logical</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">supported</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> with evidence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Alexander, 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Samuel, lecturer at the Office for Environmental Programs, University of Melbourne, “Ted Trainer and the Simpler Way,” Post Carbon Institute Energy Bulletin, 4/20/12, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.energybulletin.net/stories/2012-04-20/ted-trainer-and-simpler-way]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Tashma)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">For several decades </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ted </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trainer </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">...</span><span class="Emphasis2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">extent</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of ecological overshoot.</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Democracy Promotion Bad]]Democracy Promotion Bad</span>= 
==Defense== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democratic peace theory is a farce</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Layne 7 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, Professor @ TX A&M, American Empire: A Debate, pg. 94</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wilsonian ideology drives the American ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> war with other democracies.</span>

==Democracy Bad - War== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democracies start more wars</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Henderson 2 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Errol Henderson, Assistant Professor, Dept. of Political Science at the University of Florida, 2002, Democracy and War The End of an Illusion?, p. 146</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Are Democracies More Peaceful ... involved in—and to ini­tiate—interstate wars</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

==Democracy Bad - Environment== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democracy destroys the environment – several reasons.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Li and Reuveny 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Li, Prof of poli sci at Penn State, and Reuveny, prof of public and environmental affairs @ Indiana U, Quan and Rafael, “The Effects of Liberalism on the Terrestrial Environment” [[http://cmp.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/24/3/219]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">According to the</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">policy inaction argument</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">facing environmental degradation, democracy can</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">often </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">exhibit policy inaction</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> for several reasons (Midlarsky, 1998: 159). </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">First,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">democracyseeks to please</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> competing ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">perceiving economic issues to be more pressing. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Bruce E. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Tonn</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Urban Planning Prof @ Tennessee, November 200</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Futures v. 39, no. 9, “Futures Sustainability”, ln</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The first principle is the most ... earth's</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">biodiversity must be protected</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Democracy Bad - Heg== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democracy promotion collapses U.S. HEG</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Emmerson</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">-</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Institute for International Studies at Stanford University- January 30, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">200</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">3 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Donald K., “Democratic Divergence: A Challenge to U.S. Primacy?”[[http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/pac0305.pdf]], Alvaro is the man!)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Who will, then, counterbalance U.S. ... at the top despite divergence from below.</span>

==Democracy Bad - Terror== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democracies encourage terrorism and can’t enact anti-terrorist strategies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Li 5</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Quan, assistant political science professor at Penssylvania State University, “Does Democracy Promote or Reduce Transnational Terrorist Incidents?” The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 49, No. 2, The Political Economy of Transnational Terrorism, Apr., 2005, pp. 278-297, JSTOR)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Policy inaction and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">political deadlock ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> reduce terrorist incidents</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Crenshaw 1981).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Sid-Ahmed</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, political analyst 0</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705,[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">What would be the consequences ... the whole planet, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">we will all be losers</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good]]Warming Good</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-CO2 Ag]]CO2 Ag</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-CO2 Ag-1NC]]1NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased CO2’s key to crop fertilization that sustains biodiversity and avert worldwide famine that kills billions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Idso and Idso 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">… Sherwood Idso, former Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service and former adjunct professor in the Departments of Geology, Geography, and Botany and Microbiology at Arizona State University, and Craig Idso, founder and former President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change and former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy, 2007 [Carbon Dioxide and Global Change: Separating Scientific Fact from Personal Opinion, [[http://co2science.org/education/reports/hansen/HansenTestimonyCritique.pdf]], p. 17-19]</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">How much land can ten billion ... the biosphere in the process</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Crop shortages will cause global conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Calvin 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, [[http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The population-crash scenario is ... warming from the North Atlantic.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-CO2 Ag-Overview]]Overview</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Magnitude – crop shortages lead to global resource conflicts with nuclear weapons between great powers – that’s Calvin.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That turns warming</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily, 6 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Science Daily News, 12/11/6, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate Global Climate,” citing Toon: chair of the Dept of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a member of the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics at the University of Colorado @ Boulder. and Robock, a Proff of atmospheric science at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even a</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> small-scale, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">regional ... impacts could be worldwide.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Timeframe – food shortages will occur in the short-term; CO2 emissions key to prevent extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Idso 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Keith and Craig, "The World's Looming Food and Water Shortage," CO2 Science Magazine, Volume 13, Number 49:8, December,[[http://www.co2science.org/articles/V13/N49/EDIT.php]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Every now and then, various astute ...decimating what yet remains of wild nature.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming slowing down now – long timeframe</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily, 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, 5/5 [Science Daily, May 5 2008, “Will Global Warming Take A Short Break? Improved Climate Predictions Suggest A Reduced Warming Trend During The Next 10 Years”, <[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2008/05/080502113749.htm]]>]</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">To date climate change projections...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a much stronger temperature rise.”</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-CO2 Ag-Defense]]Defense</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increases in CO2 trigger a negative feedback loop with plant productivity. After a certain point, any increase in CO2 will be consumed by more-efficient plants-taking out their CO2 turns</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Idso, 8 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Craig Idso, et al., founder and former President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change and former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy, Updated January 9 2008 (Sherwood Idso, former Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service and former adjunct professor in the Departments of Geology, Geography, and Botany and Microbiology at Arizona State University, and Keith Idso, adjunct associate in plant biology at Arizona State University, CO2 Science, “Feedback Factors (Diffuse Light) – Summary”, [[http://co2science.org/subject/f/summaries/feedbackdiffuse.php]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The initial impetus for the ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> subsequent sequestration of its carbon</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dimethylsulfide checks the impact</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">NIPCC ’10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, multi-national coalition of leading climate scientists, “Dimethylsulfide, Global Warming and the Arctic Ocean,” [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/oct/06oct2010a5.html]], AM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Qu and Gabric (2010) introduce their ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> other trace greenhouse gases.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CO2 enriches phytoplankton and other aquatic plants to create carbon sinks and negative feedbacks</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Idso, 4 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Keith, 5/26/4, “Is the Growth of Phytoplankton Limited by the Current Low Concentration of Atmospheric CO2?” CO2 Science, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Although the question Gordillo ...CO2 concentration [see our Editorial of 25 Feb 2004].</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CO2 leveled off for warming; disproves their internal link</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Happer 3/27</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">/12 – professor of physics at Princeton (William, “Global Warming Models are Wrong Again”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304636404577291352882984274.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, PZ)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What is happening to</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> global ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> conclusions to draw about the theory.</span>

===CO2 Good - Earthworms=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elevated CO2 increases earthworm activity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Yeates et al, 3</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Landcare Research, Private Bag 11-052, Palmerston North, New Zealand, Landcare Research, Private Bag 11-052, Palmerston North, New Zealand, AgResearch Grasslands, Private Bag 11-008, Palmerston North, New Zealand (G. W. Yeates, P. C. D. Newton, D. J. Ross, “Significant changes in soil microfauna in grazed pasture under elevated carbon dioxide”, Biol Fertil Soils (2003) 38:319–326, 2003, SpringerLink | JJ)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observations indicate an increase ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> of increased earthworm activity.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Tompkin & Bird 99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, and Christopher, no quals, “secrets of the sol,” taken from Microsoil, [[http://www.microsoil.com/earthworm.htm]] wyo -ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only where you find earthworms ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of the Nilotic valley's soil.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-SO2 Screw]]SO2 Screw</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-SO2 Screw-1NC]]1NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They cause faster warming –large emission reductions remove sulfate aerosols which cool the Earth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Lovelock ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Consultant of NASA, former president of the Marine Biological Association, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of Green Templeton College, Oxford (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 55-56</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In 2004, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">two IPCC contributors</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and are damned whatever we do."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CO2 stays in the air longer than SO2 – that means there is only a risk of fast warming if we stop emitting </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Monastersky, 91</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Richard, Staff writer for Business Net News, “CO2 limits may initially worsen warming - carbon dioxide and global warming”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1200/is_n7_v139/ai_10381518]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Policies designed to control fossil-fuel ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> carbon dioxide warming,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> he found</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Warming Good-SO2 Screw-Overview]]Overview</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reducing SO2 causes worse warming in the short term; outweighs any benefit from reducing CO2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Stevens, 91</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">—William, Staff Writer for th e New York Times, "Not Using Fossil Fuels Could Add to Warming" Feb 7, 1991, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9D0CE7DA1430F934A35751C0A967958260&sec=&spon=&pagewanted=2|http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9D0CE7DA1430F934A35751C0A967958260&sec=&spon=&pagewanted=2 ]]</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Efforts to head off a predicted ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the temperature and the heating."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Internal link magnitude – SO2 removal substantially increases catastrophic effects of warming</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">BBC`6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Brittish Broadcasting Corporation, Transcript of the documentary “Global Dimming” [[http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article15809.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NARRATOR: </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">If so much could ... time and that's, that's a problem for us.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Cap Good]]Cap Good</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Defense</span>== 

They need a concrete alternative or else capitalism will initiate a counter-revolution to crush their alternative – economic viability is key

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kliman, 6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew Kliman, professor of economics, Pace University, 2006[“Not by Politics Alone,” Presentation at Left Forum Conference, March 11, [[http://209.85.165.104/search?q=cache:W7WV0BP2LGoJ:akliman.squar]] espace.com/writings/not%2520by%2520politics%2520alone%25204.2.06.doc+alternative+to+capitalism&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=128&gl=us]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are several different issues ... would turn into its opposite. </span>


There is no all-encompassing capitalist system – their totalizing critique makes coherent analysis of economic power impossible

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DeLanda, ‘97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Adjunct Associate Professor – Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation – Columbia University, A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History, p. 46-8</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The medieval cities that controlled ...of commercial end industrial institutions? </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap Good - Transition</span>== 

Cap isn’t the root cause of anything; greed is – shift away turns the alt.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aberdeen 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, Political Activist, Philosopher, Hippie, He Doesn’t Link to Your Epistemology Arguments, “The Way: A Theory of Root Cause and Solution,” http://freedomtracks.com/uncommonsense/theway.html)</span>

<span class="underline">A </span>view shared by<span class="underline"> many ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> obviously goes deeper than this</span>.


The desire for freedom and growth is innate – moving away risks totalitarianism, violence, poverty and war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aligica ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul Aligica, Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Adjunct Fellow at the Hudson Institute, “The Great Transition and the Social Limits to Growth: Herman Kahn on Social Change and Global Economic Development”, April 21, http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=2827)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stopping things would mean if ...</span><span class="underline"> advocates are trying to avoid</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" (Kahn, 1976, 210; 1984).</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap Good - Environment</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitalism is vital to stemming environmental degradation --- alt doesn’t solve</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith, 93 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Fred L., Jr., President and Founder of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, The Market and Nature, September, [[http://cei.org/gencon/019,03108.cfm]])</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The world does </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">indeed </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">face a ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The result was an environmental disaster.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap Good - Space</span>== 

Cap key to space access – case is a DA

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garmong, 5</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD in philosophy (Richard, Cap Mag, “Privatize Space Exploration,” http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?ID=4327) </span>

<span class="underline">There is a contradiction at ...</span> the free market can do<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Key to solve multiple extinction scenarios

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baum 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2009, Seth, visiting scholar at Columbia University's Center for Research on Environmental Decisions, PhD candidate in Geography with a focus on risk analysis, “Cost–benefit analysis of space exploration: Some ethical considerations,” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 2, May 2009, Pages 75-80, science direct)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another non-market </span>benefit of ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of long-term human survival</span>.

===Asteroids Impact=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Free market space key to prevent asteroids impact that threatens extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carreau, 10/15 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, 10/15/12, “Privately Funded Asteroid Hunting Telescope Clears Review,” Aviation Week, Aerospace Daily & Defense Report, Senior reporter, aerospace at Houston Chronicle, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HOUSTON — The B612 Foundation has ...</span> cause<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regional or </span>global catastrophe<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Verschuur 96</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, the ...</span><span class="underline"> that will determine our fate</span>.


It’s the only extinction risk

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGUIRE 2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Probably the only piece of ... the right time to start.</span>


Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote neg no matter how low the probability of our advantage is

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Posner 4</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>

Even if our<span class="underline"> insouciant </span>reaction ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possible responses are explained carefully</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resource Wars Impact</span>=== 

Commercial space key to colonize and solve resource wars - checks their reasons why cap is bad

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Autino, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

The major source of<span class="underline"> social ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">services to the general public.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air Pollution Impact</span>=== 

Effective space access key to check air pollution

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seshan 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Journalist for International Business Times</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Balasubramanyam, July 1st 2011, NASA to Monitor Ground-Level Air Quality from Space; Glimpse Research Aircraft Photos, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/172701/20110701/nasa-discover-aq-air-quality-pollution-satellite-space-earth-maryland-traffic-corridors-roadway-low.htm) NAR</span>

<span class="underline">NASA has planned about 14</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...air quality conditions from space.</span>



Air pollution risks extinction

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Driesen 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, p. 26-30</span>

Air pollution can make life <span style="font-size: 8pt;">r...</span> a healthy and productive life<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disease Impact</span>=== 

Satellites solve epidemics.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ford et. al 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]]) </span>

<span class="underline">The scientific community has a ...</span>hot spots of virus transmission<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (26). </span>



Disease spread causes extinction.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimmerman & Zimmerman, 96 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then came AIDS…and Ebola ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Dancing Matrix</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, by Robin Marantz Hening).</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Space Weaponization Good]]Space Weaponization Good</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We control uniqueness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Gertz, 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - national security editor and a national security and investigative reporter for The Washington Times (2011, Bill, “Inside the Ring,” Washington Times,[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/9/inside-the-ring-846232496/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China used</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> a </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">top-secret</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">space weapons</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and missile defense programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hegemony prevents all scenarios for conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zhang* and Shi **11**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.(Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the global distribution of power...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">US dominance collapse ensures the rest of the world gets sucked into the conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, 11 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">(Zalmay, The Economy and National Security, Feb 8, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The stakes are high. In ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Chinese</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> hegemony and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">aggression.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact Turns-D-Rule]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">D-Rule</span></span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The D-rule is a deontological side-constraint, but they misinterpret deontology; it is not just protecting human rights; deontological side constraints mean we can allow violations to happen, but we cannot act in a way that may cause deontological violations, meaning a 1% chance that implementing the plan violates 1 person’s agency means you vote neg.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Christie, 99</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(George, March, 1999, The Defense of Necessity Considered from the Legal and Moral Points of View, Duke Law Journal, Vol. 48, No. 5, pp. 1013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[S]he agrees with Foot that </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__there ...__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">one could have acted to prevent.</span>