<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">[[toc]]
</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline"> [[2012-2013 - Dowling Catholic (IA) - Jon Langel & Simon Sheaff|Back to Dowling SL Main Page]]</span></span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">Traversing the Fantasy</span></span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Traversing the Fantasy-1NC]]<span class="underline">1NC</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The critique functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 95</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the traditional patriarchal society... of one obsessed precisely with the national thing</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">? </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Critiques uphold the existing system because they are a safe outlet for transgression, which is a necessary supplement to any system of power.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 95</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The proper way to approach ... with a specific form of enjoyment).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lacanian politics are a genuine political alternative. If it is impossible to fully represent the real, then we have no choice but to institutionalize the Lack or design politics around doubt and uncertainity. This will result in more radically democratic politics.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98). </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">According to my reading, Bellamy, ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> radically transformed ethical framework</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Traversing the Fantasy-Overview]]<span class="underline">Overview</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their approach inevitably excludes those things which can't be described by language and the symbolic-those become the real. Reliance on a security worldview means other ideas that don't fit in can't be symbolized and are thus part of the lack. This means their impacts are a rigged game because they only analyze certain facts.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Slavoj, Birkbeck Institite for the Humanities, </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conversations with Zizek</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">, Glyn Daly, 78-79</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Here I would agree with Laclau ... formal, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">structurally inherent, self-blockade</span><span class="Emphasis2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Traversing the Fantasy-Link - Hippies]]Link - Hippies</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I can't find this card for some reason but it's a transcript of that video where zizek walks through the landfill and is like "this is true ecology"</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Traversing the Fantasy-A2: Falsifiability]]<span class="underline">A2: Falsifiability</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Newest studies say you’re wrong---medical advances have proven psychoanalysis correct, falsifiable, and scientific</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Heather A. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Berlin 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;"> is an American neuroscientist focusing on brain-behavior relationships affecting the prevention and treatment of psychiatric disorders AND Christof Koch "Defense Mechanisms: Neuroscience Meets Psychoanalysis" April 13 Scientific American www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=neuroscience-meets-psychoanalysis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advances in technologies</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> such as ... after all, a neuroscientist by training</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is especially true for unconscious projection---numerous empirical and correlational studies prove theories of the unconscious are correct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Drew </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Westen 98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">, Department of Psychiatry Harvard Medical School, “The Scientific Legacy of Sigmund Freud Toward a Psychodynamically Informed Psychological Science,” Psychological Bulletin November 1998 Vol. 124, No. 3, 333-371s</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">studies</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> presented</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> thus far </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> other is attractive ( Simpson, Ickes, & Blackstone, 1995 ).</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Traversing the Fantasy-A2: Robinson]]A2: Robinson</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their Robinson evidence begs the question—if we are right about the nature of the political, then we are the only means to create real change.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Parker 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Ian—Professor in the Discourse Unit at Manchester Metropolitan University and author of books on psychoanalysis, discourse, politics and culture, __SLAVOJ ZIZEK A Critical Introduction__, p 62-63, ZR]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There is clearly a political ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> overiden- tification suspends its efficiency’.22</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism]]Taoism</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism-1NC]]1NC</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Death and misfortune are inevitable. __Plans__ to fix the world are rooted in an egotistical desire for management and control that is the root cause of all suffering and violence.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Slabbert ’1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher “Tao Te Ching: Qualities of Compassion: How to Deal With Suffering,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If you open yourself to loss</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the more damage we will do.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is totake no action to create desired ends—this is no mere resignation but rather an acceptance of the notion that we are created out of a combination of movements and will be part of a further transformation after our deaths</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kirkland ’96</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, “The Book of the Way,” Great Literature of the Eastern World,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Specifically, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the Tao</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> is humble, ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> nothing can thwart its unceasing operation.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism-Impact - Environment]]Impact - Environment</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The environment is a complex system unified by the Tao – the aff’s management ensures humanity’s destructive inclination towards interference in nature culminates in our inevitable extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Fox ’5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Dept. of Philosophy @ the University of Delaware, “Process Ecology and the Ideal Dao”, Journal of Chinese Philosophy, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 55, March 2005)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">We can apply this ecological ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">insight from a Daoist perspective.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism-Impact - Exploitation]]Impact - Exploitation</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failure to achieve harmony with the Tao causes exploitation on a global scale</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Slabbert ’1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher “Tao Te Ching: Qualities of Compassion: How to Deal With Suffering,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The poet is referring to suffering ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">out of control as suffering increases.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism-A2: Framework]]<span class="underline">A2: Framework</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Method first - evaluate the psychological effects that the 1AC political methodology has on our daily life and political culture – the education they provide is bunk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Lama Yeshe ‘83</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Thubten, Tibetan Monk, “Anxiety in the Nuclear Age” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lamayeshe.com/index.php?sect=article&id=128]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Now, </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">there’s no reason ... nuclear conflagration could never occur.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Taoism-A2: Ontology Bad]]<span class="underline">A2: Ontology Bad</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The point of our k isn’t to critique your ontology or establish a new ontology – we are germane to your politics and philosophical justifications. We indict the methodology behind the plan and its nihilistic, life-negating effects.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Shang 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ge Ling, Assistant Professor of Philosophy @ Grand Valley State University, “Liberation as Affirmation: The Religiosity of Zhuangzi and Nietzsche”, pg 160-161, jj)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Fifth, we must envision what ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">each philosopher based on his passionate and honest faith in life.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-On The Rilio]]<span class="underline">On The Rilio</span></span>= 
==<span class="underline">1NC</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure replaces space with time in an uncontrollable acceleration towards destruction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Virilio, 97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> 81-83) //BZ//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But let us get back to Europe’s ...</span><span class="underline">trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Worship of acceleration makes the Accident inevitable – the politics of speed is one of war, which turns the case and guarantees extinction</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sykes, 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) </span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In Virlio’s view, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the war machine ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> slowing down. “We must politicize speed.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to brake – instead of an on face rejection of technology, we should use a bottom up method to politicize it – countering the inertia of progress</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Glezos 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) //BW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The goal</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> then </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">is</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of reinforcement between speed, war and the (Globalitarian) state</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-On The Rilio-Link - Econ]]<span class="underline">Link - Econ</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Maintaining a global economy based on speed ensures collapse—their advantage is based on an impossible simulation rooted in our desire to overcome space with time</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kroker 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - editor of CTheory, Ph.D. in political science and professor of political science at the University of Victoria, director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture, on the Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory, and Marilouise, editor of CTheory, Senior Research Scholar at the University of Victoria. (Arthur, City of Transformation: Paul Virilio in Obama's America,” CTheory is a peer reviewed international journal of theory, technology and culture. October 30, 2008.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=597#bio|http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=597#bio]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">) //LF//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Are we beyond </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Speed and Politics//?...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> loops of advanced capitalism.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-On The Rilio-A2: Framework]]<span class="underline">A2: Framework</span></span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The state model of politics is bad—its securitizing telos imposes citizens’ dependence on the structures of speed. This appropriation of power is based on logistical control of society that makes the accelerated war possible.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Virilio, 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, speed and politics, verso, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> 139-141) //BZ//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span><span class="underline">the </span>government’s<span class="underline"> deliberately ...nations and the collapse of any social system.”</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Technological simulation is comparatively a more important issue than the plan.</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kellner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor, George F. Kneller Philosophy of Education Chair, Social Sciences and Comparative Education, UCLA (8/31/2008, Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, Illuminations: The Critical Theory Website, [[http://intermedios.geografias.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/virilioilluminationskellner.pdf]]) MGM</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet Virilio differs from Baudrillard ...</span><span class="underline"> seductive than ordinary reality. </span></span>//

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-On The Rilio-A2: Science Good]]A2: Science Good</span>== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the alternative is a rethinking of our approach; only that can experience the beauty in living life</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Virilio and Lotringer, 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School; Professor Emertius of philosophy at Columbia (Paul and Sylvere, crepuscular dawn, verso, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pg 59-64) </span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">And now </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">we would have to say... art of time, just like the theater</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche]]Nietzsche</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche-1NC]]1NC Amor Fati</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disorder is inevitable, the drive to secure culminates in endless violence.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Prof Political Science at University of Mass. [James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, 1998. On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The will to power</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, then, should ... of being protected by a god." </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We should not impose order on chaos – suffering is inevitable; the only option is to affirm the value in that suffering and give it meaning</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kain, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, issue 33, Penn state University, Muse)//RSW//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche simply dismisses the ...That cannot be changed—it can only be concealed. </span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Reducing humanity as something that needs to be saved makes its extinction desirable</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 86</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [friedrich, “beyond good and evil”, aph # 225, pg. 342]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether hedonism, or pessimism, or ...</span><span class="underline">things which raise man up?</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to vote neg to “Do nothing in the instance of the plan.” Voting negative symbolizes a Dionysian relationship with existence, accepting the “imperfections” of the status quo as products of chaos that are beautiful. This allows us to understand pain positively.</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche, ‘78</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The anti-christ Human, All too Human. Aphorism #284 1878</span></span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The means to real peace</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.— No ... a cloud—and from up high.</span>

==1NC God Died== 
There is no right or wrong; all ethics eventually boil down to self-descriptive statements that are not a warrant but rather a restatement of the original idea with no backing. All ethics become definitionally true, i.e. violence is bad because it is killing people; death is bad because you stop living. Thus morals cannot be defined by language or used by humanity and our only option is total life affirmation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche, 87 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Friedrich, 1887, //On the Genealogy of Morals//, Aph. 13, JPL)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To require of strength that ...</span><span class="underline">or being that, as merit.</span>

Any perm fails – the alternative is to vote negative to do nothing in the instance of the plan, to recognize that the existence we have been assigned is a product of chaos that is ultimately beautiful
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kain, 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, issue 33, Penn state University, Muse)//RSW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I think we are now in a ...</span> yourself to that suffering<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [End Page 58] </span>
==1NC Forgetting== 
The Affirmative regurgitates past pain and suffering to show them as a moral option in an immoral world. This action is a stimulant used to mask real pain with surplus enjoyment, creating charred men where we feel but are not alive.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zupancic 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [alenka, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” 47-49]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It might seem that the...</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> and provides them with enjoyment</span>

The desire to mask suffering with enjoyment is the ascetic ideal par excellence. the aff’s morals are employed to make on feel accomplished by their personal restraints.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zupancic 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [alenka, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” 47-49]</span>
The ascetic ideal places the ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the paradigm of “religious” thinking. </span>

Our alternative is to forget about the suffering in the 1ac. the pain cited by the 1ac is only attended to by the memory of the 1ac to further asceticism, only a break away from these memories solves.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zupancic 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [alenka, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” 57-60]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is perhaps the moment ...</span> possibility of a new one.
==2NC Overview== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Further, there is no “morality” under their framework; they pursue their advantages for the sake of upholding their ethic, not for the good of the other; makes humanity a tool to ethical calculations and the fulfillment of their mission destroys itself</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche, 86 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Friedrich, 1886, //Beyond Good and Evil//, pg. 86-88, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As long as the utility which ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">called “progress” all over Europe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The concept of Compassion destroys beneficial suffering, and it gives the ultimate weapon to the impoverished and turns the aff</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Frazer, ‘6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Ph, The Compassion of Zarathustra: Nietzsche on Sympathy and Strength,[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/The%20Compassion%20of%20Zarathustra.pdf]]; WBTR)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In discussing what can be translated ... the fiercest ethical opposition.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche-2NC God Died; Oops]]2NC God Died; Oops</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We only think ethics exist because of the tricks of language; meaning cannot be extracted from the action</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche, 87 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Friedrich, 1887, //On the Genealogy of Morals//, Aph. 13, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">To require of strength that ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> this, or being that, as merit.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche-2NC Chaos]]<span class="underline">2NC Chaos</span></span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Prediction is impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Sa, 4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In many cases, </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">a small ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> by the same causal relationships.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche-A2: Agency Turns]]A2: Agency Turns</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agency is madness – actions are taken for reasons we cannot understand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Katsafanas, 12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, Spring, 2012, “Nietzsche on Agency and Self-Ignorance,” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Vol. 43, No. 1, Ph.D in philosophy from Harvard University, professor of philosophy at Boston University, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nietzsche labels the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> widespread </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> about by unconscious forces?</span>

==A2: Relativism Bad== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No link – the alt. has nothing to do with relativism; just because we read some Nietzsche cards doesn’t mean we have to defend everything he ever said – [the alt. is an authoritative ethic of strength]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Frazer 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Ph.D in political philosophy from Princeton, postdoctoral research associate in the Political Theory Project at Brown University. Proferssor of Enlightenment polyphi @ Harvard, “On Nietzschean Ethnic: The Compassion of Zarathuras: Nietzsche of Sympathy and Strength,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=421638]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">) Zanezor</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nietzsche’s demand for a</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> creatures such as ourselves.</span>

==A2: Different Levels of Suffering== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subjectivity means there aren’t comparable levels; you can’t feel my suffering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cioran 34</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (E.M, Romanian Philosopher, Prof of Philosophy at Andrei Saguna, 1934, On the Heights of Despair, p. 6-7, AD: 7/7/09) jl</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There are people who are ... in the loneliness of suffering.</span>

==A2: Nazism== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Their offense to the alt is only a disad to the perm. Attempting to ascribe Nietzsche’s philosophy to politics is where the Nazis went wrong.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Millen 97</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Religion at Wittenberg University (Rochelle L. Millen, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/modern_judaism/v017/17.1br_santaniello.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Review: Nietzsche, God, and The Jews: His Critique of Judeo-Christianity in Relation to the Nazi Myth, MT).</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">From 1891 onward, Elisabeth, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nietzsche's sister...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Nazis effectively silenced his voice.</span>

==A2: May 05== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Pity party – pitying others treats them as if they can’t solve problems and achieve greatness on their own; negates their value</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cioran 34</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (E.M, Romanian Philosopher, Prof of Philosophy at Andrei Saguna, 1934, On the Heights of Despair, p. 61, AD: 7/7/09)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">How can one still have ideals ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> not die; he was killed.</span>

==A2: Nihilism Bad== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ascribing to philosophical assumptions with no objective standing is the precondition for nihilism – only the alt. solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Clark, 12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Maudemarie, Spring, 2012, “Suffering and the Affirmation of Life,” //The Journal of Nietzsche Studies//, Vol. 43, No. 1, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Madison, former George Carleton Jr. Professor of Philosophy and Chair of the Department of Philosophy at Colgate University, Professor of Philosophy at University of California Riverside, former professor in Philosophy Department at Columbia University, JPL)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A second important feature ... central problem of his philosophy" (AL 51)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

==A2: Perm== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The perm fails. The moment we are willing to make the value-for-less suffering trade is the moment we become slaves to it. Our eternal return framework means that if we win the direction of the link, the differentials are meaningless</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kain, 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, issue 33, Penn state University, Muse)//RSW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">I think we are now in ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">yourself to that suffering</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [End Page 58] </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Suffering is key to value; attempting to avoid it means the perm fails </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wrisley, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> George Wrisley, Professor @ University of Iowa, “Nietzsche and Suffering—a Choice of Attitudes and Ideals,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://georgewrisley.com/Nietzsche%20and%20Suffering--A%20Choice%20of%20Attitudes%20and%20Ideals.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Accessed 7/7/12 BJM </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To live is to suffer</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">”: this ...as found in Nietzsche’s writings.</span>

==A2: Util== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have an ontology disad to their calculus. Util reduces beings to numerical values, allowing for extermination.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Stone 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Modern History at University of London (Dan, “Theoretical Interpretations of the Holocaust”)[rkezios]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In his Introduction to the ...by banished sovereign values?</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Nietzsche-A2: Evil Neech Turns (Social Darwinism Stuff)]]A2: Evil Neech Turns (Social Darwinism Stuff)</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">That's not our Neech - In the face life, we have two options: </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1) the world of the 1AC — which predicates the Will to Power on attempting to realize a world without suffering, or</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2) the alternative — accept that eliminating suffering is impossible, refuse the call to action, and affirm life as it is. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Owen and Ridley, 2k </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(David Owen is Reader in Political Philosophy and Deputy Director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton. He is the author of numerous books and articles in social and political philosophy with a focus on Nietzsche. Aaron Ridley is a professor of Philosophy at the School of Humanities at the University of Southampton. He has also written multiple books about Nietzschean ethics. Why Nietzsche still? page 149-54)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The threat here is obvious: ... not product; Dionysus, not Apollo.</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bataille</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC Excess</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We are children of the sun, actors in the cosmic play. The sun operates by an economics of excess, showering us in vastly more energy than is necessary for life. What is leftover is called “excess”. This excess is inevitable and attempts to contain it via utility inevitably fail.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Land 92</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – lecturer in Continental Philosophy at Warwick University (Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation” pg. 23-24)[rkezios]</span>

<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Belonging alongside ‘sacrifice’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> in ... which does not serve anything’ [VII 298].</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Modern World is driven by the search for a solution- a solution that always disappoints. This search is a struggle that estranges the person from their self. Only expenditure offers a solution.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Bataille 67</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Georges, historian, librarian and philosopher, The Accursed Share, P. 129, ADP)</span>

<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">At the origin of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">industrial society...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> what </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">estranges him</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> from himself?</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth-oriented politics links to all their offense to the alt beause they embrace bad excess. We call this depletion.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Stoekl 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University (Allan, 8 October 2007, “Bataille's Peak : Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” ­­­198, Ebrary)//RK//</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">Depletion was there from ...</span> of the seemingly infinite.</span>//



//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear destruction is the endpoint of productivity. The energy you save will become uncontainable. Just like an overgrown forest, it’s not a question of if, but when it burns.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stoekl 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University (Allan, 8 October 2007, “Bataille's Peak : Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” 43-45, Ebrary) </span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">KP</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">I stress the importance of ... consumation en pure perte]. (OC, 7: 170; AS, 181)</span>


==1NC Death== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Debate is theater. Like Perseus looking at Medusa in the mirror, voting negative results in an intimate encounter with death that is critical to value to life in the real world. Their calculus results in policy paralysis which turns any net benefit to their framework.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Razinsky 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Liran, University of Wisconsin, “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille”)[rkezios]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Thus we see that the stakes ... inscribe it in the general order of things. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The death drive is an inevitable part of the human psyche. The affirmative attempts to shove it “under the rug” via a fetishistic obsession with policy solutions. This is the precondition for the worst atrocities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Žižek 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Slavoj Žižek, researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana, The Sublime Object of Ideology (Second Edition), January 5, 2009, pg. xvii-xxviii)//ctc//jc</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Psychoanalytic 'essentialism' is paradoxical ... antagonism, this basic impossibility.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fear of death manifests itself in fear of the other, resulting in exclusionary dichotomies. This ends in extinction.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard 76</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jean, “Symbolic Exchange and Death”, pg. 125-126)[rkezios]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Racism is modern. Previous races ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">exclusion of the dead and of death.</span>


==1NC The Scythe== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the face of rationality, vote negative to sacrifice the 1AC. This sacred act liberates humanity from the shackles of modern politics which culminates in nuclear annihiliation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Ph.D. in political science from the University of California, Berkeley (Jesse, “The Headless Republic”, pg 10-14)[rkezios]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In chapter 4, I examine how ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> with a new political order.</span>

==1NC Endpoint== 
Here’s a weird Bataille card that turns your crumbling arguments
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bataille 45</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Georges, “On Nietzsche”, pg. 173-176)[rkezios]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>'Life<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." I said. "</span>is bound ...<span class="underline"> the stake used for impalement.</span>

=[[#Negative-K-Frakking Toasters]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.6em; line-height: 1.5;">Frakking Toasters</span>= 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Courtesy of Benjamin Weinhardt<3</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-K-Frakking Toasters-1NC]]1NC</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Artificial life development is inevitable the only question is how we will respond.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leaver 08</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Tama "Humanity's Children": Constructing and Confronting the Cylons in Cylons in America: Critical Studies in Battlestar Galactica edited by Tiffany Potter & C.W. Marshall Pages 131-132)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In Mind Children, Hans </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moravec...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">much more immediate and engaging.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">rejecting calculative thought creates a dictotomy between humanity and artificial life because computers inherently calculate ensuring humanity remains separated from machines as mediative thinkers</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Swazo 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Norman K Professor of Philosophy and Biomedical Ethics @ Alfaisal Univ. PhD in philosophy from the University of Georgia (1988), with a Graduate Certificate in Global Policy Studies (1987), a Master of Health Services Administration degree from the University of Michigan School of Public Health (1978), and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Science and Human Affairs from Princeton University (1976). Human Version 2.0. Between the “Banality” and “Ressentiment” of Neuroengineers. NeuroQuantology, 6 (1). pp. 32-42) (ct)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">de Garis anticipates an objection to ...</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">calculable, reality for quantum physicists</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must maximize efficiency, master nature, pacify humanity, and objectify the world as much as possible to develop alife as soon as posssible because a-life will break down the modern subject at root in the aff’s impacts</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zimmerman 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Michael E. Department of Philosophy University of Colorado at Boulder The Singularity: A Crucial Phase in Divine Self-Actualization? Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy, What is Life?)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Even when explicitly opposed to ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">mostly be incomprehensible to us.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://66.102.1.104/scholar?hl=en&lr=&q=cache:tk2oovP4naUJ:cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/viewArticle/187/253+singularity*heidegger*nanotechnology#footnote-57593-16|(16)]]</span></span>__



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This human-machine dictotomy ensures artificial life will enslave humanity.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abrams 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Jerold J. Associate Prof of Philosophy at Creighton Univ. Embracing the "Children of Humanity": How to Prevent the Next Cylon War Battlestar Galactica and Philosophy. 2008 Amazon) (ct)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The reimagined Battlestar Galactica boasts ... </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"the shape of things to come."</span>__



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">this impact outweighs because it destroys the universe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rheingold 92</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Howard "At the beginning of the twentieth century; computational biology" Whole Earth Review - September 22, pg Cov) (West)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It looks as if something ...</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">new level of ethical lapse.</span>__



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“vote neg” to embrace the frakking toaster – any permuation still recreates the dualism between being and machine ensuring inevitable cylon conflict</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tranter 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Kieran Mr Kieran Senior Lecturer Griffith Law School Gold Coast, Australia LLB (Hons), B Science "Frakking Toasters" and Jurisprudences of Technology: THE EXCEPTION, THE SUBJECT AND TECHNÉ IN BATTLESTAR Law and Literature (Yeshiva Univ., New York) (19:1) (Spring 2007) , p.45-75,153) (ct)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Part IV: Frakking Toasters It is not...</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">jurisprudence to the "techno-human."</span>__



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is the only way to harness nanotech peacefully – which would solve all impacts, ever</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wang 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Sinclair T. Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Taipei, Taiwan Propel to a new socioeconomic system in an unlimited-sum world enabled by molecular nanotechnologyTaiwan Nanotechnology Newsletter; North-South Dialogue on Nanotechnology: Challenges and Opportunities Expert Group Meeting, International Centre for Science and High Technology United Nations Industrial Development Organization 10 – 12 February 2005) (ct) ([[http://www.ics.trieste.it/Documents/Downloads/df2550.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">World socioeconomic system has evolved form zero-sum or negative-sum guardian system to a system that combined guardian with a positive-sum commercial system. Till recent </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Information Technology</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (IT) revolution...is a goal for us to strive.</span>