[[toc]]
=topicality= 
==anti-framework== 
===1nc anti-f/w=== 

**Interpretation – the United States federal government is the people**
Mark **Perkel**, **no date** (computer visionary, “The Fourth Branch of Government is the People,” http://www.perkel.com/politics/issues/fourth.htm >:)
In school you were taught that the Government has three branches, the Legislative branch, the Executive branch, and the Judicial branch. The Legislative branch is the Congress and they make the laws. The Executive branch is the President, who runs the daily business of government. The Judicial branch is the Courts who interpret the law and determine of laws are constitutional. These are the three branches of government you were taught in the government-controlled schools. But the government is the People.

**Violation – the affirmative defends a hypothetical implementation of transportation infrastructure by bureaucracies in Washington DC, not individual advocacy**

**Vote neg –**
**1.) Limits – shifting the discussion from the level of our communities and individual lives to Washington DC leads to thousands of unpredictable policy changes in abstract legislative processes that become undebatable**

**2.) Ground – they make us debate a world where we compare bureaucratic policy instead of individual agency; that turns us into spectators**
**MITCHELL**, prof communications University of Pittsburgh, **95**
Gordon Mitchell, Univ. of Pittsburgh Communications prof, “REFLEXIVE FIAT: INCORPORATING THE OUTWARD ACTIVIST TURN INTO CONTEST STRATEGY”, paper presented to the 1995 SCA National Convention
One problem with approaches to fiat which feature such a structural separation between advocate and agent of change is that such approaches tend to instill political apathy by inculcating a spectator mentality. The function of fiat which gives debaters simulated political control over external actors coaxes students to gloss over consideration of their concrete roles as involved agents in the controversies they research. The construct of fiat, in this vein, serves as a political crutch by alleviating the burden of demonstrating a connection between in-round advocacy and the action by external actors defended in plan or counterplan mandates.

**3.) Voter for education – competing interpretations are good – we should debates what would be holistically good for debate, not what is good in this debate – their interpretation is arbitrary and only self serving**


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]