[[toc]]
=aff= 
==renewable rail== 
===1ac wake=== 
====1ac plan==== 

**United States federal government should institute a substantial number of 25% declining investment tax credit and issue guaranteed utility bonds for construction of electrified freight rail lines. United States federal government should offer half of the tax credits to invest in measures that improve rail capacity, speed and reliability.**

====1ac solvency==== 

**Combination of declining investment tax credit and guaranteed bonds would electrify the rail network as soon as possible – the federal government is key to issue tax credits and bonds**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
The USA needs [...] railroads or utilities.

**Best models prove – in 20 years, the plan achieves a 40% cut in emissions and expands the GDP by 13%**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Bottom Line Benefits [...] what ails us !

**Improving rail capacity is key – basic improvements solve**
**Drake 10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1,” http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/ ;)
Better Signals and [...] last for centuries.

====1ac freight==== 

**Failing infrastructure will overload freight capacity, collapsing the economy and global supply chain – improved rail is key to solve**
**BAF** 20**11** (Building America’s Future, A national, bipartisan coalition dedicated to infrastructure investment and reform, February 2011, “Falling Apart and Falling Behind,” http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf ;)
In the 21st [...] revenues with them.

**Population crunch means increase in freight demand is inevitable – new infrastructure’s key but businesses need help**
**Treasury 3-23**-12 (The Department of the Treasury is responsible for analyzing and reporting on current and prospective economic developments in the U.S. and world economies and assisting in the determination of appropriate economic policies. Treasury conducts research to assist in the formulation and articulation of public policies and positions of the Department on a wide range of microeconomic issues, “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf ;)
The merits of [...] business as usual.”

**Improving freight solves the economy and global commerce – empirically proven**
**AAR** 20**12** (Association of American Railroads, members include the major freight railroads in the United States, Canada and Mexico, as well as Amtrak. Working with elected officials and leaders in Washington, D.C. on critical transportation and related issues, AAR ensures that the freight rail industry will continue to meet America’s transportation needs today and tomorrow, June, “The Economic Impactof America’s Freight Railroads,” http://www.aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx ;)
From the food [...] 30 years ago.

**Transportation infrastructure development is key to the economy – 2009 proves**
**Costa and Hersh** 20**11** (Kristina and Adam, Special Assistant with the Doing What Works project at the Center for American Progress and Economist at the Center for American Progress, “Infrastructure Spending Builds American Jobs,” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/jobs_infrastructure.html, September 8th 2011 ;)
Fortunately, there is [...] idle and unpaid.

**Rail is key to the supply chain and US economy – disruption hurts them**
**Kelly** 3/6/**08** (Robert W, Senior Advisor to the Reform Institute’s Homeland and National Security Center, “Chain of Perils: Hardening the Global Supply Chain and Strengthening America’s Resilience,” http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=58656D76-9643-757E-BEA4-119FB6E12C29&lng=en)
The fact is [...] private sector leaders.

**The plan solves best – the alternative is trucks, which are inefficient**
**Drake** 20**10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, June 17th 2010, “"Free" Tax Credits to Build Oil-Free Cross-Country Transportation with Repatriated Profits,”http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/building-oil-free-cross-country.html ;)
Trucks would have [...] land and improvements.

**Data proves – electrified rail solves best**
**Drake 10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1,” http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/ ;)
Just 3% of [...] billion this year.

**US economic collapse cause global wars**
**Royal** 20**10** (Jedidah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction, U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of war and peace: economic, legal and political perspectives, vol. 12, edited by Jurgen Brauer, p. 213-214)
Thus, the answer [...] deserves more attention.

**Independently, breakdown of global transportation causes extinction**
**Dempsey 2k** (Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)
As the gateways to an increasingly global market, transportation corridors are the arteries through which we and everything we consume flow. Transportation networks stimulate trillions of dollars in trade, c3ommerce, and tourism. In a global economy, they enable specialization in the production of goods and services which, under the law of comparative advantage, stimulates broader economic growth. By shrinking the planet, transportation also facilitates the intermingling and integration of disparate economies and cultures. Cultural interaction enhances international understanding which promotes global peace which, in a thermonuclear world, is essential for survival of our species. It offers hope for the creation of a global village of friends and neighbors rather than enemies and adversaries. Cultural interaction also stimulates intellectual social and artistic creativity, making the world a more interesting and richer place in which to live. As a fundamental component of the infrastructure upon which economic growth is built - the veins and arteries of commerce, communications, and national defense - a healthy transportation system serving the public's needs for ubiquitous service at reasonable prices is vitally important to region and the nation it serves. It is for this reason that governments the world over have promoted, encouraged, and facilitated its provision by providing essential infrastructure, research and development, protective regulation, subsidies and, on occasion, outright ownership. Historically, government has facilitated transportation by guiding the airports, the seaports, the rail and transit lines, subsidized their operations where necessary, and established the basic codes and rules under which the industry serves the public. If done thoughtfully and well, government planning can facilitate creation of an efficient and productive transportation infrastructure better able to satisfy the broader needs of the public for safe, secure, seamless, expeditious and reasonably priced transportation service. The tourism and travel business is arguably the world's largest industry. It accounts for 5.5% of the world's GNP, 12.9% of consumer spending, 7.2% of worldwide capital investment, and 127 million jobs, employing one in every 15 workers. The ripple effect of transportation activity - the indirect and induced economic and employment stimulation - is vastly larger than the prices paid directly by passengers or shippers. Transportation creates and transports wealth far in excess of its own facial value. In other words, the tacit benefits of economic stimulation created by transportation networks far exceeds its costs. In this sense, transportation has profound externalities, both positive and negative. For example, a city with abundant airline, motor carrier and railroad networks radiating from it like the spokes of a wheel, enjoys a wide economic catchment area stimulating trade, commerce and wealth for its citizens. Conversely, a community with poor, declining or deteriorating access to the established and prevailing transportation networks will wither like a human limb or organ starved of oxygen by an artery made impassable by a tenacious blood clot. On a macroeconomic level, these observations are true for all nations and all regions, and arguably for all time. An expeditious, efficient, and economical transportation network will facilitate the public's need for mobility and will ordinarily advance economic productivity and growth. Conversely, a deteriorating transportation infrastructure will produce sluggishness in overall economic productivity and retard economic growth.

**And, no international alt causes – US is crucial**
**Dempsey 2k** (Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)
Among the more dramatic contemporary shifts in transportation patterns has been the growth of multimodal international movements. For import or export traffic that is originating from or destined to U.S. points, rail/water/motor carrier combinations are often employed. Moreover, the United States has become a "land bridge" for a substantial amount of traffic that neither originates from nor is destined to U.S. shippers, but instead is moving between Europe and the Far East. n9

====1ac peak==== 

**Peak oil is coming now and will begin an age of energy scarcity – renewable energy’s key to adapt**
**Wakeford 7/27** (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27 ;)
Peak oil is [...] sustainable energy economies.

**Untapped oil can’t solve –it’s all about a descent in production which is inevitable**
**Leggett 7/4** (Jeremy, Jeremy Leggett is founder and Chairman of Solarcentury, the UK's largest solar solutions company, and SolarAid, a charity set up with Solarcentury profits. He is author of The Carbon War and Half Gone, “Monbiot says he was wrong on peak oil but the crisis is undeniable,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/jul/04/monbiot-wrong-peak-oil;)
The many misunderstandings [...] the Financial Times.

**Structural issues prove – it’s coming now and will cause war**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
Many of the [...] China, India, and Japan.

**The plan solves by providing a non-oil dependent transportation backbone – this solves the worst case scenarios of peak oil**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Benefits - Transferring inter-city [...] are investing today.

**Rail electrification covers 85% of needs in a crisis preventing oil rationing**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Chapter #1 – Electrified and [...] to critical needs.

**This buffers society from breakdown**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages [...] is clearly necessary.

**Two impacts –**

=====1ac scarcity===== 

**First is energy scarcity – peak oil leads to civilization collapse and breakdown of society – causes widespread violence and human rights abuses**
**Morrigan** 20**10** (Tariel, the Principal Research Associate, Global Climate Change, Human Security and Democracy, October 2010, “Peak Energy, Climate Change and Collapse of Global Civilization,” http://www.global.ucsb.edu/climateproject/papers/pdf/Morrigan_2010_Energy_CC4.pdf ;)
Systemic Collapse and [...] social break down.

**Social order will break down – those that survive the collapse will kill themselves**
**Church** 10/23/**06** (Norman, Independent Energy Analyst for Counter Currents, “Major Problems of Surviving Peak Oil,” Powerswitch, http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2026&Itemid=2)
It is difficult [...] starvation, dehydration, and suicide.

=====1ac lashout===== 

**Next is resource lashout – peak oil will escalate resource competition and cause national outrage**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
A similar peak [...] the country’s travails.

**That causes the US to override rational calculations and ignite global resource wars**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
In the United States, [...] does, look out.”8

**Extinction**
**Lewis** 19**98** (Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)
Most critics would [...] of global civilization.

**Resource wars are the most likely point of conflict**
**Klare** 20**06** (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)
It's official: the [...] forms of conflict.

**Adapting now is key – waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition**
**Roberts** 20**04** (Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York Public Library Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)
Yet despite the [...] from new opportunities.

**The plan creates new renewable energy markets and renewable energy production**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
Electrification will likely [...] Non-GHG Transportation systems.

===1ac gtown=== 
====1ac plan==== 

**United States federal government should make rail electrification a national security priority.**

**We’ll clarify.**

====1ac peak==== 

**Same as Wake, but with these 3 cards** **–**

**New extraction technology can’t solve – diminishing returns**
**Martenson 11** (PhD and economic researcher specializing in energy and resource depletion, 5/27/11 “Why Time Is Short Now That We're Past Peak Oil,”
http://www.businessinsider.com/why-time-is-short-now-that-were-past-peak-oil-2011-5#ixzz23qc53m5p ;)
Some experts are shaking their heads […] possibility not yet priced into any financial markets.

**No spare capacity – higher production levels don’t solve**
**Reuters 12** (News Organization, “World oil supply tightens in last 2 months: EIA,” http://dawn.com/2012/08/25/world-oil-supply-tightens-in-last-2-months-eia/ ;)
The EIA […] sides of the Atlantic.

**Transition to nat gas fails – only renewables solve**
**Suzuki 12** (David, An award-winning scientist, environmentalist and broadcaster, is renowned for his radio and television programs that explain the complexities of the natural sciences in a compelling, easily understood way, “SCIENCE MATTERS: Natural gas fails to solve dependency on fossil fuels,” http://www.nanaimobulletin.com/opinion/169623876.html?c=y&curSection=/&curTitle=BC+Opinion&bc09=true ;)
At least 38 earthquakes […]that have fewer negative impacts.

====1ac decentralization==== 

**The current power grid is vulnerable and outdated – improvements are key – otherwise, the grid will be overloaded and crash in the near future**
**Halsey 12** (Ashley, The Washington Post Writer, 8/1/12, “Aging power grid on overload as U.S. demands more electricity,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/aging-power-grid-on-overload-as-us-demands-more-electricity/2012/08/01/gJQAB5LDQX_story.html ;)
They began to bend in the […]“In fact, it’s a little more scary than the [ASCE] report indicates.”

**The plan solves for a reliable decentralized electricity grid**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
Electrification will likely require substations [...] Non-GHG Transportation systems.

**We'll isolate three scenarios** **–**

=====1ac overload===== 

**Scenario One – Grid Overload**

**Decentralization is critical for power grid reliability during disasters – solves economic collapse**
**Verclas 12** (Kristen, The Senior Program Manager at the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, 4/27/12, “The Decentralization of the Electricity Grid – Mitigating Risk in the Energy Sector,” http://www.aicgs.org/publication/the-decentralization-of-the-electricity-grid-mitigating-risk-in-the-energy-sector/ ;)
Natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. […] times of natural disasters or terrorist attacks.

**US economic collapse cause global wars**
**Royal** 20**10** (Jedidah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction, U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of war and peace: economic, legal and political perspectives, vol. 12, edited by Jurgen Brauer, p. 213-214)
Thus, the answer to the first […]-security debate and deserves more attention.

=====1ac china===== 

**Scenario Two – China Cyber-Warfare**

**Chinese cyber-attacks are coming now – they’ve penetrated the electric grid and the US is unprepared**
Ellen **Nakashima**, March 8th, 20**12** (national security reporter for The Washington Post, focuses on issues relating to intelligence, technology and civil liberties, previously served as a Southeast Asia correspondent for the paper, wrote about the presidential candidacy of Al Gore and co-authored a biography of Gore, and has also covered federal agencies, Virginia state politics and local affairs, “China testing cyber-attack capabilities, report says,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/ellen-nakashima/2011/03/02/ABdt4sM_page.html >:)
For a decade or more, […]command decision-making,” the report said.

**The impact is nuclear retaliation**
Sean **Lawson**, Ph.D. in Information Warfare and Assistant Professor of Communication @ the University of Utah, 20**09**, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation”
So, from a theoretical standpoint, […]is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7]

**Extinction**
**Straits Times 2K**
(6-25-2000, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” p L/N, NJ)
Conflict on such a scale […]sovereignty above everything else.

=====1ac storms===== 

**Scenario Three** **– Solar Storms**

**Solar storms are coming now, but the power grid’s unprepared – the impact is extinction from nuclear meltdown – outweighs other impacts**
**IB Times 11** (International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” September 14th 2011 ,http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm ;)
(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, […]into a total meltdown simultaneously.

**Grid decentralization solves by building resilience to cyberattacks and solar storms – key to critical infrastructure**
Chris **Clarke**, August 14th, 20**12** (natural history writer and environmental journalist, “GOP Rep Pushes to Decentralize the Grid,” http://www.kcet.org/news/rewire/government/gop-rep-pushes-to-decentralize-the-grid.html >:)
When you look at the […]that development easier.

====1ac solvency==== 

**Only a National security priority can spur electrification as soon as possible**
**Drake 12** (Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, 6/6/12, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
One suggestion/possibility […]away from oil for essential freight.

**Specifically, the plan solves the key bottlenecks in 3-5 years – that is the most cost effective solution**
**Drake 12** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
In a rational rationing scheme […]eliminated in three to five years.

**Only the plan solves in all sectors – we must proceed with electrification as soon as possible – only that solves**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages […]oil-free transportation is clearly necessary.

**Only state action with a national security priority solves peak oil and nothing else does**
**WOTW 12** (War of the Words, Internet writer that is a analyzer of history and political theory living in the Pacific Northwest, 3/10/12, “Quitting Oil is a National Security Priority,” http://open.salon.com/blog/war_of_the_words/2012/03/10/quitting_oil_is_a_national_security_priority ;)
Our entire economy and […] indirect subsidy to the oil industry.

===1ac capitol=== 
====1ac peak==== 
=====1ac scarcity===== 

Added:

**Peak oil causes minority oppression to increase exponentially – dramatically increases racism, sexism, and homophobia**
**Baker 12** (Carolyn, June 10th 2012, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
During the past [...] they have trained.

**Minorities and women will be targeted**
**Baker 12** (Carolyn, June 10th 2012, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
Collapse, Gender, Archetypes [...] is anyone’s guess.

====1ac grid==== 
=====1ac energy control===== 

[note: this replaced the China scenario]

**Scenario Three** **– Energy Control**

**Status quo energy is controlled by economically and racially privileged elites – decentralization is key to stop that cycle**
**Hoffman and Pippert 5** [Steven M. Hoffman, PhD, Professor of Political Science at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota, and Angela High-Pippert, PhD, Director of Women's Studies at the University of St. Thomas, and serves on the ACTC Women's Studies Coordinating Committee, “Community Energy: A Social Architecture for an Alternative Energy Future”, Bulletin of Science Technology & Society 2005 25: 387]
According to Theda [...] democratic social apparatus.

**Centralized control over oil energy makes elitist violence inevitable due to manipulation and a lack of accountability – decentralizing solves**
**Champain 11** [Phil, Director of Programs at the peacebuilding NGO International Alert, “Changing energy provision – a peacebuilding opportunity?”, January]
There is one [...] of our societies.

===1ac scranton=== 
====1ac peak==== 
=====1ac lashout===== 

Added round 6:

**Peak oil means that authoritarian leaders come into power**
**Freeman 4** (Richard, journalist on education and econ, “Will The End of Oil Mean The End of America?” http://www.commondreams.org/views04/0301-12.htm)
In his first released tape after 9/11, Osama bin Laden stated that he carried out the attacks for three reasons: 1) to drive US military forces from Saudi Arabia, the most sacred place of Islam; 2) to avenge the deaths of over half a million Iraqi children killed, according to UNICEF, as a result of the US-sponsored embargo of the 1990s; and, 3) to punish US sponsorship of Israeli oppression against the Palestinian people. Oil and the need to control it are critically implicated in all three reasons. But now comes the sobering part. In response to the 9/11 attacks, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld stated that the US was engaged in a thirty to forty year war (!) against fundamentalist Islam. It is the fever of War, of course, that becomes the all-purpose justification for the rollback of civil liberties. Lincoln used the Civil War to justify the suspension of habeas corpus. Roosevelt used the cover of World War II to inter hundreds of thousands of Japanese Americans. And now Bush is using the self-ratcheting War on Terror to effect even more sweeping, perhaps permanent rescissions of civil liberties. Under the Patriot Act, a person can be arrested without probable cause, held indefinitely without being charged, tried without a lawyer or a jury, sentenced without the opportunity to appeal, and put to death all without notification of anybody. This is simply a Soviet Gulag and it has been rationalized by the hysterical over-hyping of the War on Terror. The fact that it is not yet widespread does not diminish the more important fact that it has been put in place precisely in anticipation of such procedures needing to be being carried out on a mass scale in the future. The broader implications of the Patriot Acts go far beyond the abusive treatment of criminals or terrorists. Their portent can be glimpsed in the language used to justify them. When Attorney General John Ashcroft testified on behalf of the Act, he stated, those who oppose us are providing aid and comfort to the enemy. These are carefully chosen words. Aid and comfort to the enemy are the words used in the Constitution to define Treason, the most fateful of crimes against the state. In other words, protest against the government the singular right without which America would not even existis now being defined as trying to overthrow the government. And by the internal logic of a global Oil Empire, this is entirely reasonable. The needs of the people of any one country must be subordinated to the larger agenda of Empire itself. This is what the Romans learned in 27 B.C. when Augustus proclaimed himself Emperor. It was the end of the Roman Republic and the disappearance of representative government on earth for almost 1,700 years, until the English Civil Wars in the 1600s. That is the reality we are confronting today offering up our democracy in propitiation to an Empire for Oil. It will be a fateful, irreversible decision. Returning to Pirsigs metaphor, the choice of a Grab the Oil strategy is the equivalent of the monkey holding onto the handful of food, remaining trapped by the coconut. It is an ironclad guarantee of escalating global conflict, isolation of the US in the world, unremitting attacks on the US by those whose oil is being expropriated and whose societies are being dominated, the militarization of the US economy, the irreversible rescission of civil liberties, and the eventual extinguishment of American democracy itself. It is the conscious, self-inflicted consignment to political and economic death.

====1ac grid==== 
=====1ac storms===== 

Added rounds 2 and 6:

**Nuclear meltdowns cause extinction**
**Wasserman** 20**02** (March 22, Earth Island Journal), http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm)
The intense radioactive heat within today's operating reactors is the hottest anywhere on the planet. So are the hellish levels of radioactivity. Because Indian Point has operated so long, its accumulated radioactive burden far exceeds that of Chernobyl, which ran only four years before it exploded. Some believe the WTC jets could have collapsed or breached either of the Indian Point containment domes. But at very least the massive impact and intense jet fuel fire would destroy the human ability to control the plants' functions. Vital cooling systems, backup power generators and communications networks would crumble. Indeed, Indian Point Unit One was shut because activists warned that its lack of an emergency core cooling system made it an unacceptable risk. The government ultimately agreed. But today terrorist attacks could destroy those same critical cooling and control systems that are vital to not only the Unit Two and Three reactor cores, but to the spent fuel pools that sit on site. The assault would not require a large jet. The safety systems are extremely complex and virtually indefensible. One or more could be wiped out with a wide range of easily deployed small aircraft, ground-based weapons, truck bombs or even chemical/biological assaults aimed at the operating work force. Dozens of US reactors have repeatedly failed even modest security tests over the years. Even heightened wartime standards cannot guarantee protection of the vast, supremely sensitive controls required for reactor safety. Without continous monitoring and guaranteed water flow, the thousands of tons of radioactive rods in the cores and the thousands more stored in those fragile pools would rapidly melt into super-hot radioactive balls of lava that would burn into the ground and the water table and, ultimately, the Hudson. Indeed, a jetcrash like the one on 9/11 or other forms of terrorist assault at Indian Point could yield three infernal fireballs of molten radioactive lava burning through the earth and into the aquifer and the river. Striking water they would blast gigantic billows of horribly radioactive steam into the atmosphere. Prevailing winds from the north and west might initially drive these clouds of mass death downriver into New York City and east into Westchester and Long Island. But at Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, winds ultimately shifted around the compass to irradiate all surrounding areas with the devastating poisons released by the on-going fiery torrent. At Indian Point, thousands of square miles would have been saturated with the most lethal clouds ever created or imagined, depositing relentless genetic poisons that would kill forever. In nearby communities like Buchanan, Nyack, Monsey and scores more, infants and small children would quickly die en masse. Virtually all pregnant women would spontaneously abort, or ultimately give birth to horribly deformed offspring. Ghastly sores, rashes, ulcerations and burns would afflict the skin of millions. Emphysema, heart attacks, stroke, multiple organ failure, hair loss, nausea, inability to eat or drink or swallow, diarrhea and incontinance, sterility and impotence, asthma, blindness, and more would kill thousands on the spot, and doom hundreds of thousands if not millions. A terrible metallic taste would afflict virtually everyone downwind in New York, New Jersey and New England, a ghoulish curse similar to that endured by the fliers who dropped the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagaskai, by those living downwind from nuclear bomb tests in the south seas and Nevada, and by victims caught in the downdrafts from Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. Then comes the abominable wave of cancers, leukemias, lymphomas, tumors and hellish diseases for which new names will have to be invented, and new dimensions of agony will beg description. Indeed, those who survived the initial wave of radiation would envy those who did not. Evacuation would be impossible, but thousands would die trying. Bridges and highways would become killing fields for those attempting to escape to destinations that would soon enough become equally deadly as the winds shifted. Attempts to quench the fires would be futile. At Chernobyl, pilots flying helicopters that dropped boron on the fiery core died in droves. At Indian Point, such missions would be a sure ticket to death. Their utility would be doubtful as the molten cores rage uncontrolled for days, weeks and years, spewing ever more devastation into the eco-sphere. More than 800,000 Soviet draftees were forced through Chernobyl's seething remains in a futile attempt to clean it up. They are dying in droves. Who would now volunteer for such an American task force? The radioactive cloud from Chernobyl blanketed the vast Ukraine and Belarus landscape, then carried over Europe and into the jetstream, surging through the west coast of the United States within ten days, carrying across our northern tier, circling the globe, then coming back again. The radioactive clouds from Indian Point would enshroud New York, New Jersey, New England, and carry deep into the Atlantic and up into Canada and across to Europe and around the globe again and again. The immediate damage would render thousands of the world's most populous and expensive square miles permanently uninhabitable. All five boroughs of New York City would be an apocalyptic wasteland. The World Trade Center would be rendered as unusable and even more lethal by a jet crash at Indian Point than it was by the direct hits of 9/11. All real estate and economic value would be poisonously radioactive throughout the entire region. Irreplaceable trillions in human capital would be forever lost. As at Three Mile Island, where thousands of farm and wild animals died in heaps, and as at Chernobyl, where soil, water and plant life have been hopelessly irradiated, natural eco-systems on which human and all other life depends would be permanently and irrevocably destroyed, Spiritually, psychologically, financially, ecologically, our nation would never recover. This is what we missed by a mere forty miles near New York City on September 11. Now that we are at war, this is what could be happening as you read this. There are 103 of these potential Bombs of the Apocalypse now operating in the United States.

=====1ac emp===== 

Broken round 4:

**Probability of an EMP attack is certain and will causes multiple routes to extinction**
**Koenig 6** (Don, writer and author who extensively examines current world events and trends, “Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) caused by a nuclear explosion high over the United States - Imminent danger to the U.S. # 1,” http://www.thepropheticyears.com/comments/Imminent%20danger%201%20-%20Electromagnetic%20Pulse%20explosion%20%28EMP%29%20over%20the%20United%20States.htm ;)
U.S. vulnerability - The U.S. is more vulnerable than any other nation on earth to an EMP because she has become totally dependent on electricity and electronics for just about everything used in everyday living. This vulnerability has come about in the last few decades. All of the major enemies of the U.S. are aware of this vulnerability and that this is the easiest way to cripple the United States. Russia has this capability and tested it during the cold war. Some officials from Russia suggested they could use this capability against the United States in 1999 during the Balkans conflict. China now has this capability, and U.S. intelligence sources say that North Korea and Iran are actively developing the technology and capability. Terrorist groups could get the capability from any one of these countries or from a few other countries either directly or by theft. The weapon could be delivered by a Scud missile hidden under a tarp from a medium sized ship in the shipping lanes off the coast of the United States. Scud missiles are available in the weapons market for about $100,000. If the United States were attacked with this weapon the country may find it very difficult if not impossible to retaliate. Finding out who was responsible might not be easy especially if it was done by state sponsored terrorists or if terrorists carried it out on their own. If the U.S. responded in kind over a country like North Korea, it would not significantly change their way of life and if the U.S. nuked their cities without serious proof I can foresee a collective world reaction against the United States that would only make substantial recovery in the U.S. more difficult if not impossible. Even conventional warfare may not be possible because our military would have to be recalled to the United States to restore domestic order. EMP Effects - total blackout - Y2K + X to the nth power – A large EMP would actualize the perceived Y2K threat of the year 2000 except the effects of an EMP would be many magnitudes worse than anyone's worst nightmare about Y2K. A large EMP would cause the immediate collapse of the North American power grid and the destruction of much unshielded electronic equipment in the area of the pulse. The extent of the pulse depends on many factors; it could hit the whole nation, a good part of the nation, or be more local. Those who would attempt such an attack would seek to maximize the extent of the damage so more than likely, the pulse would hit much if not most of the United States. The EMP pulse itself has three components with each subsequent component causing further damage. An EMP is generated when Gamma Rays from a high altitude nuclear explosion interact with the atmosphere to produce a radio frequency wave pulse that would hit everything in line of sight of the explosion. A small crude nuclear weapon exploded high above the United States could create a devastating pulse. If an EMP hit a large part of the United States it would not cause just a temporary power outage. It could take months or even years to get power back to most of the United States. Electronic equipment and power generating equipment in power plants themselves would be damaged and there will be no way of easily replacing this equipment. Even if the equipment were not damaged the grid could not easily be brought back up. It takes a source of power to bring up modern power plants to put them back on line. Just bringing up the whole U.S. grid from scratch would take weeks or months. Even if the blackout were only for weeks, the disruption to the United States would be immense. In a matter of hours there would be large-scale looting in the major cities and in days there would be riots in all large cities over food and water. Marshal Law would be declared and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would nationalize all police forces and take control over managing the people of the United States. All available military would be following the directives of DHS as well. A major EMP over a large part of the United States would cause all major transportation systems to break down. Most means of communication would not be possible. There would be no TV, little radio, no useable cell phone systems, no Internet system and no food or water distribution other than through the direction of Homeland Security. All essentials would be rationed. Those carrying out the DHS directives would confiscate all known critical supplies. The civil disorder and disruptions that have taken place in New Orleans and southern Mississippi in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina are a small example of what would take place nationwide after an EMP. In that case massive aid from the rest of the nation eased the crisis but after an EMP the whole nation will be coping with the crisis and little aid will be possible. All able bodied manpower in the United States would have to report for assignments directed by Homeland Security. All financial assets would be frozen. There would be no access to any money, the stock market would be closed and the U.S dollar would become near worthless on the world market. For weeks, months, and perhaps years there could be little gross national product in the United States. The U.S is the largest debtor nation in the world so she would be forced to default on her debt bringing about a massive world depression. Even after the power was brought back up, it would be likely that much of the electronically controlled infrastructure systems would have to be totally replaced. This could take many years. Meanwhile, financial assets in every category either would become worthless or lose tremendous value. All financial bubbles will burst. Likelihood of this threat occurring before A.D 2025? If significant military action is not taken against Iran and North Korea (if they do not immediately abandon their nuclear weapons program), it is almost certain that one or more EMP attacks will be attempted with the likelihood of success being high. The possibility of a successful EMP attack before 2025 AD would in my opinion be at least a 7 on a scale of 1-10.

**Specifically – EMP attack is likely and kills GPS satellites**
**Neely 12** (Keith, Writer for The Foundry, “National EMP Awareness Day,” http://blog.heritage.org/2012/08/15/national-emp-awareness-day/ ;)
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack constitutes one of the single greatest threats to modern national security. Typically triggered by a high-altitude nuclear warhead, an EMP can damage unprotected electronic devices, disrupt communications, and permanently destroy American infrastructure. The 2008 Graham Commission lists a host of likely outcomes to a successful strike: planes falling from the sky, cars stalling on the roadways, electrical networks failing, food rotting—the list continues for pages. Yet very little has been done in recent years to prepare the U.S. for an EMP attack, even as the likelihood of that attack from rogue regimes and terrorist organizations has increased. Since 2008, five separate bills have aimed at bolstering American preparedness for an EMP attack, but none have made it out of committee. Even military installations, most of which had been EMP-hardened during the Cold War, remain vulnerable because of their reliance on unprotected commercial technology, such as GPS satellites.

**GPS operation is key to sustain agricultural yield**
**GPS.gov 11** (“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing, http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/)
Precision agriculture is now changing the way farmers and agribusinesses view the land from which they reap their profits. Precision agriculture is about collecting timely geospatial information on soil-plant-animal requirements and prescribing and applying site-specific treatments to increase agricultural production and protect the environment. Where farmers may have once treated their fields uniformly, they are now seeing benefits from micromanaging their fields. Precision agriculture is gaining in popularity largely due to the introduction of high technology tools into the agricultural community that are more accurate, cost effective, and user friendly. Many of the new innovations rely on the integration of on-board computers, data collection sensors, and GPS time and position reference systems. Many believe that the benefits of precision agriculture can only be realized on large farms with huge capital investments and experience with information technologies. Such is not the case. There are inexpensive and easy-to-use methods and techniques that can be developed for use by all farmers. Through the use of GPS, GIS, and remote sensing, information needed for improving land and water use can be collected. Farmers can achieve additional benefits by combining better utilization of fertilizers and other soil amendments, determining the economic threshold for treating pest and weed infestations, and protecting the natural resources for future use. GPS equipment manufacturers have developed several tools to help farmers and agribusinesses become more productive and efficient in their precision farming activities. Today, many farmers use GPS-derived products to enhance operations in their farming businesses. Location information is collected by GPS receivers for mapping field boundaries, roads, irrigation systems, and problem areas in crops such as weeds or disease. The accuracy of GPS allows farmers to create farm maps with precise acreage for field areas, road locations and distances between points of interest. GPS allows farmers to accurately navigate to specific locations in the field, year after year, to collect soil samples or monitor crop conditions. Crop advisors use rugged data collection devices with GPS for accurate positioning to map pest, insect, and weed infestations in the field. Pest problem areas in crops can be pinpointed and mapped for future management decisions and input recommendations. The same field data can also be used by aircraft sprayers, enabling accurate swathing of fields without use of human “flaggers” to guide them. Crop dusters equipped with GPS are able to fly accurate swaths over the field, applying chemicals only where needed, minimizing chemical drift, reducing the amount of chemicals needed, thereby benefiting the environment. GPS also allows pilots to provide farmers with accurate maps. Farmers and agriculture service providers can expect even further improvements as GPS continues to modernize. In addition to the current civilian service provided by GPS, the United States is committed to implementing a second and a third civil signal on GPS satellites. The first satellite with the second civilian signal was launched in 2005. The new signals will enhance both the quality and efficiency of agricultural operations in the future.

**Nuke war**
**Calvin 98** (William, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, ATLANTIC MONTHLY, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 1998, p. 47)
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields would cause some powerful countries to try to take over their neighbors or distant lands -- if only because their armies, unpaid and lacking food, would go marauding, both at home and across the borders. The better-organized countries would attempt to use their armies, before they fell apart entirely, to take over countries with significant remaining resources, driving out or starving their inhabitants if not using modern weapons to accomplish the same end: eliminating competitors for the remaining food. This would be a worldwide problem -- and could lead to a Third World War -- but Europe's vulnerability is particularly easy to analyze. The last abrupt cooling, the Younger Dryas, drastically altered Europe's climate as far east as Ukraine. Present-day Europe has more than 650 million people. It has excellent soils, and largely grows its own food. It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

**It’s a D-Rule**
**Watson 77** philosophy professor, Washington University, WORLD HUNGER AND MORAL OBLIGATION, 1977, pp. 118-9.
One may even have to sacrifice one’s life or one’s nation to be moral in situations where practical behavior would preserve it. For example, if a prisoner of war undergoing torture is to be a (perhaps dead) patriot even when reason tells him that collaboration will hurt no one, he remains silent. Similarly, if one is to be moral, one distributes available food in equal shares even if everyone dies. That an action is necessary to save one’s life is no excuse for behaving unpatriotically or immorally if one wishes to be a patriot or moral. No principle of morality absolves one of behaving immorally simply to save one’s life or nation. There is a strict analogy here between adhering to moral principles for the sake of being moral, and adhering to Christian principles for the sake of being Christian. The moral world contains pits and lions, but one looks always to the highest light. The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die. The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die – and it is pathetic to profess morality if one quits when the going gets rough.

**GPS solves Caribbean narcoterror**
**Purdy 8** (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27)
In U.S. Southern Command's area of responsibility in Central and South America and the Caribbean, one of the most significant threats to national security is the drug trade and narco-terrorism. Drug revenues finance and equip terrorists and insurgents, so if the movement of drugs can be interdicted, then funding for insurgents dries up. A significant challenge for SOUTHCOM is the immense variety ofmountainous and jungle terrain that is difficult to see and maneuver through, for which reasons, it is a haven for drug traffickers and insurgents. Since so much of the drug trade operates in jungle conditions, and transport is largely conducted by river, SOUTHCOM is exploring whether different robotic systems could operate together to conduct reconnaissance and interdiction missions. Reduced Risk of Casualty Unmanned aerial vehicles equipped with foliage-penetrating radar could potentially scout areas of interest. If suspicious activity is detected, the aerial vehicle would then send global positioning system coordinates to unmanned vehicles on the ground or on a river, enabling the vehicles to conduct reconnaissance closer to the area of interest. Vast areas could be covered by the unmanned systems, and personnel would be sent in only after confirmation that interdiction is warranted. This is an idea that capitalizes on the advantages of robotics. Robots can operate for long periods without becoming fatigued and losing their sharp perception--they don't get tired or hungry--and they keep personnel from being detected and harmed by insurgents.

**Caribbean security key to prevent Latin American instability, bioterror, and LNG attacks**
**Bryan 1** Anthony T. Bryan, Director of the Caribbean Program – North/South Center, and Stephen E. Flynn, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation”, 10-21-2001, http://www.cfr.org/publication/4844/terrorism_porous_borders_and _homeland_ security.html
Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. The Caribbean is no exception. Already the linkages between drug trafficking and terrorism are clear in countries like Colombia and Peru, and such connections have similar potential in the Caribbean. The security of major industrial complexes in some Caribbean countries is vital. Petroleum refineries and major industrial estates in Trinidad, which host more than 100 companies that produce the majority of the world’s methanol, ammonium sulphate, and 40 percent of U.S. imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG), are vulnerable targets. Unfortunately, as experience has shown in Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America, terrorists are likely to strike at U.S. and European interests in Caribbean countries. Security issues become even more critical when one considers the possible use of Caribbean countries by terrorists as bases from which to attack the United States. An airliner hijacked after departure from an airport in the northern Caribbean or the Bahamas can be flying over South Florida in less than an hour. Terrorists can sabotage or seize control of a cruise ship after the vessel leaves a Caribbean port. Moreover, terrorists with false passports and visas issued in the Caribbean may be able to move easily through passport controls in Canada or the United States. (To help counter this possibility, some countries have suspended "economic citizenship" programs to ensure that known terrorists have not been inadvertently granted such citizenship.) Again, Caribbean countries are as vulnerable as anywhere else to the clandestine manufacture and deployment of biological weapons within national borders.

**LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war**
**Lovin and Lovin 1** Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, http://verdilivorno.it/doc_gnl/198204_Brittle_Power_intro_GNL_note.pdf
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto water, boil to gas in about five minutes. It does not matter how cold the water is; it will be at least two hundred twenty-eight Fahrenheit degrees hotter than the LNG, which it will therefore cause to boil violently.) The resulting gas, however, will be so cold that it will still be denser than air. It will therefore flow in a cloud or plume along the surface until it reaches an ignition source. Such a plume might extend at least three miles downwind from a large tanker spill within ten to twenty minutes.4 It might ultimately reach much farther—perhaps six to twelve miles.5 If not ignited, the gas is asphyxiating. If ignited, it will burn to completion with a turbulent diffusion flame reminiscent of the 1937 Hindenberg disaster but about a hundred times as big. Such a fireball would burn everything within it, and by its radiant heat would cause third-degree burns and start fires a mile or two away.6 An LNG fireball can blow through a city, creating “a very large number of ignitions and explosions across a wide area. No present or foreseeable equipment can put out a very large [LNG]... fire.”7 The energy content of a single standard LNG tanker (one hundred twenty-five thousand cubic meters) is equivalent to seven-tenths of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

**Bioweapons outweigh nuclear war and spread globally – none of their impact defense applies**
**Levy, 07** [6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html])
Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera. A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan.Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species. Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today and can be engineered and disseminated to achieve a more deadly result than a nuclear attack. Whereas the explosion of a nuclear bomb would cause massive death in a specific location, a biological attack with smallpox could infect multitudes of people across the globe. With incubation periods of up to 17 days, human disseminators could unwittingly cause widespread exposure before diagnosable symptoms indicate an infection and appropriate quarantine procedures are in place. Unlike any other type of weapon, bioweapons such as smallpox can replicate and infect a chain of people over an indeterminate amount of time from a single undetectable point of release. According to science writer and author of The Hot Zone, Richard Preston, "If you took a gram of smallpox, which is highly contagious and lethal, and for which there's no vaccine available globally now, and released it in the air and created about a hundred cases, the chances are excellent that the virus would go global in six weeks as people moved from city to city......the death toll could easily hit the hundreds of millions.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."[1] More so than chemical and nuclear research, bioweapons development programs lend themselves to stealth development. They are difficult to detect, can be conducted alongside legimate research on countermeasures, sheltered in animal research facilities within sophisticated pharmaceutical corporations, disguised as part of routine medical university studies, or be a component of dual use technology development. Detection is primarily through available intelligence information and location-specific biosensors that test for the presence of pathogens. Biological weapons have many appealing qualities for warfare and their effects can be engineered and customized from a boutique of possibilities. Offensive pathogens are inexpensive compared to conventional weapons and small quantities can produce disproportionate damage. They have unlimited lethal potential as carriers and can continue to infect more people over time. Bioweapons are easy to dispense through a variety of delivery systems from a missile, an aerosol or a food product. They can be placed into a state of dormancy to be activated at a later stage allowing for ease of storage. Pathogens are not immediately detectable or identifiable due to varying incubation periods and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days.

===1ac blake=== 
====1ac grid==== 

**A downed power grid outweighs nuclear war**
**Business Wire 12** (News Website, Citing Hacking Expert David Chalk, “Hacking Expert David Chalk Joins Urgent Call to Halt Smart Grid,” http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20120412005992/en/Hacking-Expert-David-Chalk-Joins-Urgent-Call ;)
“Unless we wake up and realize what we're doing, there is 100% certainty of total catastrophic failure of the entire power infrastructure within 3 years,” said Chalk. “This could actually be worse than a nuclear war, because it would happen everywhere. How governments and utilities are blindly merging the power grid with the Internet, and effectively without any protection, is insanity at its finest.”

=====1ac emp===== 

Agriculture impact was removed; these cards were added --

**Attack is coming and countries have capacity to launch**
**Venetis 11** (Alisha, co-founder of www.thePrepRoom.net, “Bringing America To Its Knees With An EMP Attack,” http://disasterandemergencysurvival.com/archives/bringing-america-to-its-knees-with-an-emp-attack ;)
An EMP is a high-intensity burst of electromagnetic energy caused by the rapid acceleration of charged particles; similar to lightening, but shorter, much stronger and faster. An EMP can be caused by nuclear weapons, radio-frequency weapons, or geomagnetic storms (often called space weather). An EMP terrorist attack, which has been called a weapon of “mass disruption”, can be triggered by the detonation of a nuclear weapon at a high altitude over the United States. Most terrorism experts agree that an EMP is the biggest and greatest threat to America. It would likely render useless, not just all computers and small electronics, but all critical infrastructures, such as communications, transportation, banking, and food and water distribution chains. A successful EMP attack could result in airplanes literally falling from the sky, streets and highways instantly becoming graveyards for inoperable automobiles and non-functioning traffic signals, and water, sewer, and electrical networks failing...all at once. Without electricity, food would rot, health care would be reduced to its most basic level and, pretty much, your only means of transportation would be a bicycle. Rule of law would become impossible to sustain. Police departments would be overwhelmed and most civil service employees would not even show up to help, because they'd be at home taking care of their own families. Effectively, the U.S. would be thrown back to the pre-industrial age and life as we know it would be forever changed in a matter of seconds. In 2004 and 2008, The Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from an EMP, released a report, stating that an EMP attack could inflict severe damage on the U.S. and that an “EMP is one of a small number of threats that can hold our society at risk of catastrophic consequences”. The commission was very clear as to what an EMP could do to America. “Should significant parts of the electrical power infrastructure be lost for any substantial period of time, the Commission believes that the consequences are likely to be catastrophic, and many people may ultimately die of lack of the basic elements necessary to sustain life in dense urban and suburban communities.” Today, more than ever, the likelihood of an EMP attack is very real. Since an EMP attack can be executed with simple ballistics, this currently leaves about 30 countries the ability to launch an EMP attack. North Korea currently owns a large arsenal of missiles and has been publicly testing its ballistic weapons. It has also been reported that Russian scientists have worked with North Korea and tested an EMP this year. The most disconcerting of all the countries is the latest one to have joined the nuclear weapons fraternity; Iran. Iranians have already practiced in the Caspian Sea. Although we may look at their tests as failures, because their missiles blow up mid flight, to the Iranian regime, the tests are a success. The spiritual leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, once said “If the world's industrial countries fail to devise effective ways to defend themselves against dangerous electronic assaults, then they will disintegrate within a few years. American soldiers would not be able to find food to eat, nor would they be able to fire a single shot.” EMPs’ are so effective; it is believed that the USA has contemplated using one against the Iranians as well.

**Decentralization of the energy grid deters attacks**
**National Energy Technology Laboratory 7** (Department of the DOE, March 2007, “The Smart Grid,” http://www.pdhengineer.com/courses/e/E-5006.pdf ;)
Third, the Modern Grid will resist attack. Security requires a system-wide solution that will reduce physical and cyber vulnerabilities and recovers rapidly from disruptions. Both its design and its operation will discourage attacks, minimize their consequences and speed service restoration. It will also withstand simultaneous attacks against several parts of the electric system and the possibility of multiple, coordinated attacks over a span of time. Modern grid security protocols will contain elements of deterrence, prevention, detection, response, and mitigation to minimize impact on the grid and the economy. A less susceptible and more resilient grid will make it a less desirable target of terrorists.

====1ac offshore wind==== 

Broken round 7 --

**Offshore wind farms are being developed in the US now**
Jared **Anderson**, July 2nd, 20**12** (AOL Energy, “Offshore Wind Energy Developers Focus on Northeast US Shores,” http://energy.aol.com/2012/07/02/offshore-wind-energy-arriving-on-northeast-us-shores/ >:)
The US is looking to expand the power generating capacity of wind beyond its coastline. RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Technology To (the Future) Mr. President: Our Energy Problem Won't be Solved with Incomplete Equations The economics can be complex – particularly if the production tax credit expires at the end of 2012 - but offshore wind has the potential to become an affordable source of electricity for some of the largest US markets. Offshore wind will first be developed in the northeast and then expand to other parts of the country as technology improves and costs decrease, Deepwater Wind CEO Bill Moore told the audience at the Renewable Energy Finance Forum Wall Street summit recently held in New York. See earlier coverage from the conference here. Northern New Jersey, New York City and Long Island are attractive to offshore wind developers because they are large markets with substantial onshore loads, existing power networks and relatively low interconnection costs, said Moore. The power generated from an offshore wind farm in the New York metropolitan area could be cheaper than electricity generated from onshore installations in upstate NY, Moore told AOL Energy on the sidelines of the conference. Where the Wind Blows Offshore coastal regions also have a natural advantage over onshore locations – sea breezes. "I think we can beat upstate wind just flat out based on the higher on-peak capacity factor, because utility loads in New York City and Long Island on hot days are driven by air conditioning requirements and those same high pressure systems that give us these hundred degree days also give us daily sea breezes, it's the same phenomenon," said Moore. The ability to generate power from strong winds during peak demand periods is a big advantage that Moore says could make offshore wind even cheaper than solar in the New York City market. "It helps reduce your delivered cost because you are producing a lot more at peak [demand periods] when energy is worth a lot more." Wholesale price suppression is a positive attribute of offshore wind, explained Moore. "We displace the most expensive generators at the top of the stack and we can really - during those peak periods - create reductions in the market clearing price for that hour that we're generating – that are very substantial." The price effect at the wholesale level in combination with economies of scale from bigger projects and bigger turbines can help to significantly lower electricity costs for consumers. "If you compare a wind farm made up of 3.6 MW turbines versus one made out of 6 MW turbines, that's 40% fewer structures you have to install and maintain over the life of the project – that means one-third less steel and the savings add up quickly." The projects that Deepwater Wind is proposing are much larger than the Cape Wind project. Cape Wind gets a lot of media and industry attention because it is farther along the development process and has a power purchase agreement in place. But Moore said Deepwater's projects will be farther offshore - beyond the horizon – and have much bigger turbines on much windier sites. He believes that will be the model that leads US offshore wind development. The company is currently working to develop four main projects along the coast from New Jersey to Rhode Island and has ambitions to connect the central PJM network with New York City. One of Deepwater's proposals is under review with the Long Island Power Authority.

**The plan solves – using transmission corridors for wind installations resolves the detrimental environmental effects of offshore wind – large turbine blades, empirics and extensive planning process means there’s a low risk of accidents**
Gar **Lipow**, January 9th. 20**09** (Grist guest contributor, “Upgrade freight rail: Save 12 percent of oil, 4 percent of emissions, and jumpstart renewable grid,” http://grist.org/article/game-changer/ >:)
One last step Drake takes about which I’m not too enthusiastic — though if it can be made to work, I would be very enthusiastic: Many rail rights-of-way pass through really good wind sites. Drake suggests that we take advantage of advanced freight rail to ship 5 meg turbines (which are normally used only offshore because they are too big to ship over U.S. roads) and to install them right along the rail rights-of-way, essentially building long, skinny wind farms. Now there are major advantages to this proposal: It minimizes the environmental consequences of large wind farms, and train access makes maintenance easy. My concern is that putting giant spinning blades next to critical power lines and critical transport lines puts too many points of failure too close together. Drake argues that the risk is small because blade accidents mainly happen with small blades. But you have to consider consequences of failure, not just probability of failure, and very small probabilities become larger when multiplied by hundreds of thousands of turbines. I’m not saying absolutely that this should be ruled out. But I would be much more cautious than Drake. Running HVDC power lines near electric railroads is something that other nations have already tried; the addition of wind turbines to that mix is new. I would want a lot of input from both the utility and wind industry before considering it. At any rate this is not as big a difference as it seems. Drake supports an extensive planning process before implementing it. So really the only disagreement is not a policy disagreement, but differing judgment about what a process we both support is likely to conclude. I would add that these long-distance transmission lines, even without wind generators along the rights-of-way are likely to free a lot of “stranded wind” and make it easier still to “unstrand.”

=====1ac whales===== 

**Offshore wind farms will devastate whale populations – construction triggers the impact**
Dona **Tracy**, August 21st, 20**07** (reporter, Gather, “Greenpeace: Promotes Deadly Hazard to Whales and Dolphins,” http://www.gather.com/viewArticle.jsp?articleId=281474977092483 >:)
There was a time when Greenpeace would throw itself in front of whaling boats to protect whales from harm but, now, this same organization, funded by tax deductible contributions from whale lovers, is throwing itself and its money, $40,000, behind a two week political ad campaign to promote an industrial development, Cape Wind (a 130 440 foot tall wind turbine project slated for 25 square miles of the Nantucket Sound off the coast of Cape Cod, MA), that can cause serious effects to those same endangered marine mammals. According to The Whale and Dolphin Society new studies show off shore wind farms pose potentially devastating threats to whales and dolphins during and after construction. The acoustic impact of pile driving, can be heard by marine creatures in shallow water up to 80km (50 miles) away, permanently damaging their hearing at close range and causing dramatic changes to their behavior at distances of 20km (approximately 12.5 miles). Additionally, the laying of cables and disturbance from service vessels will mean the damage will continue long after construction is over.

**Extinction**
**Barstow ’89** (Robbins, PhD, Exec Dir – Cetasean Society International, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn, http://www.highnorth.no/Library/Movements/General/be-wh-s2.htm)
My own rationale for asking the IWC to decide to adopt a management regime of permanent protection for whales from consumptive commercial exploitation on a global basis is both simple and complex. It is grounded i pragmatic practicalities of both fact and feeling regarding 'Whales in a Modern World'. I am not here arguing for the sanctity of all life on earth. I am not advocating equal rights for all animal species. I am seeking to set forth a rational and moral basis for a future determination by one, specialised, international, human agency that one order of marine mammals should be managed in this manner. Why whales? My rationale most simply is that whales are uniquely special! They really are in a class by themselves. Let me cite four major categories of uniqueness. First, whales are biologically special. Whales include by far the largest animals on earth, growing to be over 30 metres in length - the blue whale (Balenoptera musculus). Whales include the possessors of by far the largest brain of any creature ever to have lived on our planet, weighing four or five times as much as the human brain - the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). Whales include the creators of the most complex, long - lasting, repetitive sound patterns of any non - human animal - the humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae). And whales include species (Tursiops truncatus and some other odontocetes) which exceed humans and all other groups as well in convolutedness or fissurisation of the cerebral cortex. Marine mammal veterinarian Sam Ridgway, of the U.S. Naval Ocean Systems Centre in San Diego, has reported findings that the bottlenose dolphin, in particular, by a variety of measurements (encephalisation quotient, volume of cortex, ratio of brain weight to spinal cord weight, etc.) ranks just below humans and considerably above other higher primates, including gorillas, chimpanzees, and orangutans. In all these ways whales are truly unique biologically! Second, whales are ecologically special. Whales have evolved as marine mammals over millions of years, with both baleen and toothed whales probably appearing up to 25 million years ago, long before the development of human beings and the latter's intrusion in the ocean ecosystem. Whales are at the top of the vast food chain of the sea. Baleen whales consume the largest amount of zooplankton, and the killer whale (Orcinus orca) is the world's greatest non- human predator. Whales affect the ocean ecosystem in a uniquely global manner, and any exploitation of other marine resources, whether krill or fish, must uniquely take into account cetaceans. Human life depends upon a proper balance in the amount of oxygen in earth's atmosphere produced from the plankton that is kept in check most critically by whale consumption.

=====1ac padre island===== 

**Offshore wind turbines will be developed in the Gulf of Mexico now, destroying Padre Island – jeopardizes sea turtle populations and massively increases the amount of bird casualties**
Billy **Sandifer**, October 25, 20**11** (I have fished Padre Island for 53 years and have been the only licensed fishing guide and naturalist providing tours on the National Seashore for the past 22 years. On average I am down island about 128 days per year. I am the founder of the Big Shell Beach Cleanup and have been its primary organizer for the past 17 years. During that time, 2.3 million pounds of debris has been removed by this volunteer effort. In 2010, I was chosen as one of the six Heroes of Conservation by Field & Stream Magazine. I received the first ever Lifetime Conservation Award from the Coastal Conservation Association and this year was the popular choice winner of the Making a Difference Award competition sponsored by Sports Fishing Magazine. Caller.com writer, Wildlife, offshore wind turbines a bad mix, http://www.caller.com/news/2011/oct/25/wildlife-offshore-wind-turbines-a-bad-mix/ >:)
Wildlife, offshore wind turbines a bad mix. In early September I encountered what I roughly estimated were 750,000 black terns on Padre Island National Seashore. This represents only a fraction of the native and migratory birds on the island. Padre is recognized as a Globally Important Bird Area by the American Bird Conservancy and a site of hemispheric importance by the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network. Following that sighting of black terns I spent the next seven days and a night down island. The number of birds I counted fluctuated greatly. One day I'd see 300 to 400 terns and on another day I estimated 350,000 birds. This was not a migration in or out of the area. On the contrary, the birds were coming and going to feed on incoming schools of dusky anchovies that wander near shore and offshore this time of year. When these huge shoals of anchovies are five or 10 miles offshore the birds follow, but they don't return to shore when they're not feeding. They simply sleep on the water to remain near their prey. All pelagic and shore birds that eat fish are attracted to schools of anchovies, menhaden and other such foraging species. If hundreds of wind turbines are erected in the Gulf of Mexico within proximity of Padre Island, then baitfish will be drawn instinctively to the protective structure in the same way they are drawn to oil and gas platforms. And in turn the birds will follow. But unlike oil and gas platforms, when the birds are drawn to feed or rest on these massive structures, they will be in peril. Installing a bank of wind turbines reaching 700 feet above the water's surface spread over 60,000 acres five to 10 miles off the Padre Island beach would be like chumming the birds into the killing blades. I have a 25-foot boat that I regularly take offshore during migration season. I see wood warblers, hummingbirds, ducks, peregrine falcons, Hudson godwits and egrets migrating within 700 feet above the surface of the sea. There is no way to accurately record the number of birds that will be killed by these turbines. The Padre Island National Seashore's list of other concerns includes the possibility of turbines interfering with the homing instincts of sea turtles, thereby jeopardizing decades of effort by Donna Shaver. Why in the name of God would anyone who cares anything about the environment possibly pick this location for such a gigantic wind farm? I live in a rather harsh and very real world. And I've learned some things. When you pull a trigger you can't stop the bullet. It's gone. Like an extinct species, there is no amount of "what-ifs" or "if we had just done something" that will bring them back. But there is still time in this case. If we stand up for what we know is right and organize we can stop these Cuisinarts of the sky from coming. As a native son of Texas and a lifelong resident of the Coastal Bend, I consider the beauty of our sunrises over the Gulf and abundance of wildlife not only a blessing but a birthright to behold. These are the things that residents and visitors alike treasure. And these are the things we have been entrusted to keep for our children and grandchildren. Wind farms don't make aesthetic sense, environmental sense or economic sense for the Coastal Bend. The fact that they have to be subsidized by our tax dollars should be an indication that they might not be in our best interest. And most of all I'm terribly offended by people willing to destroy my view of the Gulf horizon while unnecessarily killing thousands of birds for their own profit. Let's keep our Texas wild, say no to these profiteers and stop the madness.

**Sea turtles are a keystone species – damaging the population risks human extinction and collapses the ocean**
**STCB 10** (Sea Turtle Conservation Bonaire. Sources: Caribbean Conservation Corporation and Todd Steiner, Sea Turtle Restoration Project. “Are Sea Turtles Worth Saving?” 2010. http://www.bonaireturtles.org/explore/are-sea-turtles-worth-saving/ ps)
Sea turtles are part of two vital ecosystems, beaches and marine systems. If sea turtles become extinct, both the marine and beach ecosystems will weaken. And since humans use the ocean as an important source for food and use beaches for many kinds of activities, weakness in these ecosystems would have harmful effects on humans. Though sea turtles have been living and thriving in the world’s oceans for 150 million years, they are now in danger of extinction largely because of changes brought about by humans. If we alter the oceans and beaches enough to wipe out sea turtles, will those changes make it difficult for us to survive? And if we choose to do what’s necessary to save sea turtles, might we save our own future? Beaches and dune systems do not get very many nutrients during the year, so very little vegetation grows on the dunes and no vegetation grows on the beach itself. This is because sand does not hold nutrients very well. Sea turtles use beaches and the lower dunes to nest and lay their eggs. Sea turtles lay around 100 eggs in a nest and lay between 3 and 7 nests during the summer nesting season. Not every nest will hatch, not every egg in a nest will hatch, and not all of the hatchlings in a nest will make it out of the nest. All the unhatched nests, eggs and trapped hatchlings are very good sources of nutrients for the dune vegetation. Even the left-over egg shells from hatched eggs provide nutrients. Dune plants use the nutrients from turtle eggs to grow and become stronger. As the dune vegetation grows stronger and healthier, the health of the entire beach/dune ecosystem becomes better. Healthy vegetation and strong root systems hold the sand in the dunes and protect the beach from erosion. As the number of turtles declines, fewer eggs are laid in the beaches, providing less nutrients. If sea turtles went extinct, dune vegetation would lose a major source of nutrients and would not be healthy or strong enough to maintain the dunes, allowing beaches to wash away. Sea turtles eat jellyfish, preventing the large “blooms” of jellyfish – including stinging jellyfish – that are increasingly wreaking havoc on fisheries, recreation and other maritime activities throughout the oceans. Research has shown that sea turtles often act as keystone species. Sea grass beds grazed by green sea turtles are more productive than those that aren’t. Hawksbill turtles eat sponges, preventing them from out-competing slow-growing corals. Both of these grazing activities maintain species diversity and the natural balance of fragile marine ecosystems. If sea turtles go extinct, it will cause declines in all the species whose survival depends on healthy seagrass beds and coral reefs. That means that many marine species that humans harvest would be lost. Sea turtles, and many species that are affected by their presence or absence, are an important attraction for marine tourism, a major source of income for many countries. These are some of the roles that we know sea turtles play in the essential health of ecosystems. Who knows what other roles we will discover as science reveals more about sea turtles? While humans have the ability to tinker with the “clockwork” of life, we don’t have the ability to know when it’s okay to lose a few of the working parts.

**Collapse of ocean ecosystems causes extinction**
**Craig**, 20**03**, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana U School Law, McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they do for terrestrial ecosystems, but these arguments have thus far rarely been raised in political debates. For example, besides significant tourism values - the most economically valuable ecosystem service coral reefs provide, worldwide - coral reefs protect against storms and dampen other environmental fluctuations, services worth more than ten times the reefs' value for food production. n856 Waste treatment is another significant, non-extractive ecosystem function that intact coral reef ecosystems provide. n857 More generally, "ocean ecosystems play a major role in the global geochemical cycling of all the elements that represent the basic building blocks of living organisms, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur, as well as other less abundant but necessary elements." n858 In a very real and direct sense, therefore, human degradation of marine ecosystems impairs the planet's ability to support life. Maintaining biodiversity is often critical to maintaining the functions of marine ecosystems. Current evidence shows that, in general, an ecosystem's ability to keep functioning in the face of disturbance is strongly dependent on its biodiversity, "indicating that more diverse ecosystems are more stable." n859 Coral reef ecosystems are particularly dependent on their biodiversity. [*265] Most ecologists agree that the complexity of interactions and degree of interrelatedness among component species is higher on coral reefs than in any other marine environment. This implies that the ecosystem functioning that produces the most highly valued components is also complex and that many otherwise insignificant species have strong effects on sustaining the rest of the reef system. n860 Thus, maintaining and restoring the biodiversity of marine ecosystems is critical to maintaining and restoring the ecosystem services that they provide. Non-use biodiversity values for marine ecosystems have been calculated in the wake of marine disasters, like the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska. n861 Similar calculations could derive preservation values for marine wilderness. However, economic value, or economic value equivalents, should not be "the sole or even primary justification for conservation of ocean ecosystems. Ethical arguments also have considerable force and merit." n862 At the forefront of such arguments should be a recognition of how little we know about the sea - and about the actual effect of human activities on marine ecosystems. The United States has traditionally failed to protect marine ecosystems because it was difficult to detect anthropogenic harm to the oceans, but we now know that such harm is occurring - even though we are not completely sure about causation or about how to fix every problem. Ecosystems like the NWHI coral reef ecosystem should inspire lawmakers and policymakers to admit that most of the time we really do not know what we are doing to the sea and hence should be preserving marine wilderness whenever we can - especially when the United States has within its territory relatively pristine marine ecosystems that may be unique in the world. We may not know much about the sea, but we do know this much: if we kill the ocean we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.

**Dying birds in water bodies are the biggest threat of spreading and mutating bird flu**
**WHO 06** World Health organization [world health organization “Avian Influenza” Febuary 2006 http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/avian_influenza/en/#humans/] Kevin W. Prep ‘11
All evidence to date indicates that close contact with dead or sick birds is the principal source of human infection with the H5N1 virus. Especially risky behaviours identified include the slaughtering, defeathering, butchering and preparation for consumption of infected birds. In a few cases, exposure to chicken faeces when children played in an area frequented by free-ranging poultry is thought to have been the source of infection. Swimming in water bodies where the carcasses of dead infected birds have been discarded or which may have been contaminated by faeces from infected ducks or other birds might be another source of exposure. In some cases, investigations have been unable to identify a plausible exposure source, suggesting that some as yet unknown environmental factor, involving contamination with the virus, may be implicated in a small number of cases. Some explanations that have been put forward include a possible role of peri-domestic birds, such as pigeons, or the use of untreated bird faeces as fertilizer. At present, H5N1 avian influenza remains largely a disease of birds. The species barrier is significant: the virus does not easily cross from birds to infect humans. Despite the infection of tens of millions of poultry over large geographical areas since mid-2003, fewer than 200 human cases have been laboratory confirmed. For unknown reasons, most cases have occurred in rural and periurban households where small flocks of poultry are kept. Again for unknown reasons, very few cases have been detected in presumed high-risk groups, such as commercial poultry workers, workers at live poultry markets, cullers, veterinarians, and health staff caring for patients without adequate protective equipment. Also lacking is an explanation for the puzzling concentration of cases in previously healthy children and young adults. Research is urgently needed to better define the exposure circumstances, behaviours, and possible genetic or immunological factors that might enhance the likelihood of human infection.

**Extinction**
**Zakaria et al 5**
(Freed, NewsWeek Staff Correspondent, Melinda, Beijing Bureau Chief, Rod, Chief Foreign Correspondent, and Dr. Paul, Lead Epidemiologist Bayor College of Medicine Flu Research Center, October 31, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” NewsWeek, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/9787690/site/newsweek/).
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says Richard Falkenrath, who until recently served in the Bush administration as deputy Homeland Security adviser. "It's a bigger threat than terrorism. In fact it's bigger than anything I dealt with when I was in government." One makes a threat assessment on the basis of two factors: the probability of the event, and the loss of life if it happened. On both counts, a pandemic ranks higher than a major terror attack, even one involving weapons of mass destruction. A crude nuclear device would probably kill hundreds of thousands. A flu pandemic could easily kill millions. Whether this particular virus makes the final, fatal mutation that allows it to move from human to human, one day some virus will. The basic factor that is fueling this surge of viruses is China's growth. (China is the natural habitat of the influenza virus.) As China develops, it urbanizes, and its forests and wetlands shrink. That forces migratory birds to gather closer together-and closer to human habitation--which increases the chances of a virus spreading from one species to the next. Also, growth means a huge rise in chicken consumption. Across thousands of homes in China every day, chickens are slaughtered in highly unhygienic ways. "Every day the chances that this virus or another such virus will move from one species to another grow," says Laurie Garrett, author of "The Coming Plague," who has been writing brilliantly on this topic for years. Nobody really disputes that we are badly unprepared for this threat. "If something like this pandemic were to happen today," says Falkenrath, "the government would be mostly an observer, not a manager." The government can't even give intelligent advice to its citizens because it doesn't actually know what to say. We don't know whether people should stay put, leave cities, stay home or go to the nearest hospital. During the cold war, hundreds of people in government participated in dozens of crisis simulations of nuclear wars, accidents and incidents. These "tabletop exercises" were conducted so that if and when a real crisis hit, policymakers would not be confronting critical decisions for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat. Beyond short-term measures for this virus--mainly stocking up on Tamiflu--the only credible response is the development of countermeasures. The best response would be a general vaccine that would work against all strains of the flu. That's a tall order, but it could be achieved. The model of the Manhattan Project is often bandied about loosely, but this is a case in which it makes sense. We need a massive biomedical project aimed at tackling these kinds of diseases, whether they're natural or engineered by terrorists. The total funding request for influenza-related research this year is about $119 million. To put this in perspective, we are spending well over $10 billion to research and develop ballistic-missile defenses, which protect us against an unlikely threat (even if they worked). We are spending $4.5 billion a year on R&D—drawings—for the Pentagon's new joint strike fighter. Do we have our priorities right?

**Independently – biodiversity loss risks extinction**
**Diner** – Judge Advocate General’s Corps-19**94**
[Major David N., United States Army Military Law Review Winter, p. lexis] [Gendered Modified]
By causing widespread extinctions, humans have artificially simplified many ecosystems. As biologic simplicity increases, so does the risk of ecosystem failure. The spreading Sahara Desert in Africa, and the dustbowl conditions of the 1930s in the United States are relatively mild examples of what might be expected if this trend continues. Theoretically, each new animal or plant extinction, with all its dimly perceived and intertwined affects, could cause total ecosystem collapse and human extinction. Each new extinction increases the risk of disaster. Like a mechanic removing, one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, n80 [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

===1ac mba=== 
====1ac plan==== 

United States federal government should make freight rail electrification a national security priority.

We’ll clarify.

====1ac peak oil==== 

The Advantage is Peak Oil –

Status quo initiatives cannot solve in time – peak oil is coming and will most likely happen before 2020
Kumhof and Muir 12 (Michael and Dirk, Michael Kumhof is the deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Dirk Muir is in the International Monetary Fund’s Research Department and Economic Modeling Division, October 25th 2012, “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures,” http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2012/wp12256.pdf ;)
This paper, based on empirical evidence, pays serious attention to the view that geology will at some point in the not-too-distant future start to constrain world oil production, but without taking a stand on the precise year in which this will happen. According to the geological view oil reserves are ultimately ﬁnite, easy-to-access oil is produced ﬁrst, and therefore oil must become harder and more expensive to produce as the cumulative amount of oil already produced grows. According to many scientists that advocate this view, the recently observed stagnant oil production in the face of persistent and large oil price increases is a sign that physical scarcity of oil is already here, or at least imminent, and that it must eventually overwhelm the stimulative eﬀects of higher oil prices on oil production. Furthermore they state, on the basis of extensive studies of alternative technologies and resources, that suitable substitutes for oil simply do not exist on the required scale and over the required horizon , and that technologies to improve oil recovery from existing ﬁelds, and to economize on oil use, must eventually run into limits dictated by the laws of thermodynamics, speciﬁcally entropy. This view of oil supply traces its origins back to the work of M. King Hubbert (1956), a geoscientist who in 1956 correctly predicted that U.S. oil output would peak in 1970. It is discussed in a study produced for the U.S. Department of Energy , Hirsch and others (2005), and in a subsequent book, Hirsch and others (2010). The most thorough scientiﬁc research available on this topic is UK Energy Research Centre (2009), which is succinctly summarized in Sorrell and others (2010). Based on a wealth of geological and engineering evidence, these authors conclude that there is a signiﬁcant risk of a peak in conventional oil production before 2020, with an inexorable decline thereafter. Given that this still allows for a wide range of possible dates for the next major trend break, we will not be speciﬁc concerning the year at which the shock hits the world economy in our simulations.

The peak is coming now and it will lead to a long age of scarcity – immediate action to build resilience is key
Wakeford 12 (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27 ;)
Peak oil is not about running out of oil. It refers to the fact that, since oil is a finite resource, the annual rate of production of oil must at some point reach an all-time maximum – a ‘peak’ – and then decline. This empirical phenomenon of peaking has already been observed in about two-thirds of oil producing countries as well as the regions of North America (peaked in 1985) and Europe (peaked in 2000). Global new oil discoveries have been declining since the 1960s and giant oilfields – accounting for some 60% of world supply – are declining at over 6% a year. Production of conventional oil has hardly risen since 2005, even though demand is burgeoning in developing countries. The conference gave considerable attention to unconventional oil – resources like Canada’s tar sands, North Dakota’s shale oil and Vene- zuela’s heavy oil – which cannot be extracted or processed using conventional technologies. The consensus view was that unconventional resources are like a large barrel with a small tap, which means that the crucial flow rate of oil is constrained. Thus, unconventional oil will be unlikely to offset the 4.5% average annual decline rate of conventional oilfields for more than a few years. Moreover, prodigious amounts of energy and capital inputs are needed to extract and refine unconventional oil, which implies a low energy return on investment and a high economic cost – around $100/bl at present. In the words of Scottish geologist Euan Mearns, “peak oil is the game changer, and unconventional oil is the system response”. Dr Robert Hirsch, an energy analyst who produced a seminal report for the US Depart- ment of Energy entitled ‘Peaking world oil production: impacts, mitigation and risk management’, delivered a sobering assessment of how our economies and societies might react to declining oil supplies. He argued that public reactions would likely be similar to responses to the 1970s oil shocks – namely panic, hoarding and long queues at filling stations. He expects oil decline to begin within one to four years and, given the world’s oil-dependent transport infrastructure worth $50-trillion to $100-trillion, electrification of mobility will not yield quick results. If the decline rate is 3% to 4%, Hirsch warns, the economic impact will be “catastrophic”. A similarly disconcerting presen- tation on the geopolitics of oil and gas was given by Professor Michael Klare, the world’s pre-eminent authority on resource-driven conflicts. He noted that nothing has had a closer association to geopolitics than oil, which, for a century, has been crucial for military power. Klare argued that the US’s military strategy is now aimed increasingly at exploiting China’s growing reliance on oil imports, while the US itself enjoys a resurgence – albeit temporary – in domestic oil and gas production. Key hot spots for potential conflict are the Persian Gulf, the Caspian Sea region, the South China Sea and the Arctic. In case you think it was all doom and gloom, some presenters gave bullish visions for a future powered by renewable energy. Europe has been leading the way and now has about 100 000 MW of installed wind power capacity. Jeremy Leggett, convenor of the UK Industry Task Force on Peak Oil and Energy Security, noted that the recent expansion of solar power capacity in the European Union exceeded that of all other new energy sources. As the above snippets have, hopefully, conveyed, peak oil is anything but a ‘myth’. The sooner that citizens, businesspeople and politicians wake up to this reality, the better our chances of building resilience to oil shocks and transitioning to sustainable energy economies.

Descent is probable within the next four years – untapped oil can’t solve since industry can’t produce oil fast enough to meet demand
Leggett 12 (Jeremy, Jeremy Leggett is founder and Chairman of Solarcentury, the UK's largest solar solutions company, and SolarAid, a charity set up with Solarcentury profits. He is author of The Carbon War and Half Gone, “Monbiot says he was wrong on peak oil but the crisis is undeniable,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/jul/04/monbiot-wrong-peak-oil;)
The many misunderstandings he relays begin with the title. There is more than enough potential oil resource below ground to create the climate disaster he refers to. Peak oil is not about that. It is about when global production falls never again to reach past levels: a disaster, if the descent hits an oil-dependent global economy years ahead of expectations. This descent depends on flow rates in oilfields, not the amount of oil left. What worries those who believe the global oil peak is imminent is the evidence that the oil industry will not be able to maintain growing flow rates for much longer. The whistleblowing in the run-up to the credit crunch involved a few maverick economists and some far-sighted financial journalists. The peak-oil whistleblowing is different. Many within the incumbency itself are sounding alarms. Every year, when the Association for the Study of Peak Oil (ASPO) meets, recently retired oilmen queue to give their latest assessments of how their industry is getting its asset assessment wrong. The latest ASPO event was held a few weeks ago in Vienna, which I attended. There has been "a boom in oil production" of late, Monbiot says. Wrong. Global production has been essentially struggling along a plateau since 2004, as Bob Hirsch, an ex-Exxon advisor to the US Department of Energy describes. Hirsch expects the descent to begin in one to four years. Monbiot is correct that there has been a small increase in oil production in the United States in recent years. But can that continue, as he infers? Gas-industry whistleblower Art Berman describes how the shale gas gold-rush of recent years, now extending into shale oil, may well be a giant ponzi scheme: decline rates in wells are unexpectedly fast, meaning more and more have to be drilled at ever more expense, meaning ever more money has to be borrowed against cash flows from production that fall ever further behind. He looks at the resulting disaster in the balance sheets of oil and gas companies, and expects the bankruptcies to start any time soon. John Dizard has also warned of this particular bubble, in the Financial Times.

We control uniqueness – no growth now and production is already peaked
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
That is one of the things we are trying to figure out. One fact is that since late 2005, the growth rate of world crude oil output has been very close to zero. If you add in things like Natural Gas Liquids and unconventional forms of oil, then the recent trend becomes a little more positive. Nevertheless, if you just look at crude oil [which accounts for around 80 % of liquid fuel production], you could say, well maybe we are already at the historic maximum level of production.

Peak oil is certain by at least 2030 – their authors are just optimists
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
In our latest paper, we refer to a very thorough study published in 2009 by the UK Energy Research Centre [pdf], which is by far the best study ever published on the “peak oil” issue, as far as we know. The authors of that study basically say that it is too early to be very certain of when the decline may happen. But they also say that it is almost impossible that it will happen after 2030. According to them, it will happen before, with a significant probability that it might happen quite a few years before 2030. The short term future of oil production capacity, to about 2016, is relatively inflexible, because the projects which will raise supply are already committed. Reasonable shortterm forecasts for any region can be constructed using widely available public data. The primary issue for the short term is the cancellation and delay of these projects as a result of the 2008 economic recession and the consequent risk of supply shortages when demand recovers. For medium to long-term forecasting, the number and scale of uncertainties multiply making precise forecasts of the timing of peak production unwarranted. Nevertheless, we consider that forecasts that delay the peak of conventional oil production until after 2030 rest upon several assumptions that are at best optimistic and at worst implausible. Such forecasts need to either demonstrate how these assumptions can be met or why the constraints identified in this report do not apply. On the basis of current evidence we suggest that a peak of conventional oil production before 2030 appears likely and there is a significant risk of a peak before 2020. Given the lead times required to both develop substitute fuels and improve energy efficiency, this risk needs to be given serious consideration.

Diminishing returns make new extraction technology useless
Gail Tverberg, 11-14-12 (Christian Science Monitor, Staff, “An America self-sufficient in oil? Don't bet on it.”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Energy-Voices/2012/1114/An-America-self-sufficient-in-oil-Don-t-bet-on-it :)
One reason the WEO 2012 estimates are unreasonable is because the oil prices shown are unrealistically low relative to the production amounts forecast in the report. This seems to occur because the IEA misses the problem of diminishing returns. As the easy-to-produce oil becomes more depleted, and we need to move to more difficult reservoirs, the cost of extraction increases. In fact, there is evidence that the “tight” oil referenced in Exhibit 1 is already starting to reach production limits, at current prices. The only way these production limits might be reasonably overcome is with higher oil prices–much higher than the IEA is assuming in any of its forecasts. Higher oil prices cause a huge problem because of their impact on the world economy. The IEA in fact mentions that current high oil prices are already acting as a brake on the global economy in its first slide for the press. Higher oil prices also mean that investment costs required to reach target production levels will be even higher than forecast by the IEA, adding another impediment to reaching its forecast production levels. If higher prices put the economies of oil importing nations into recession, then oil prices will drop lower, reducing the incentive to invest in new oil production infrastructure. In fact, we could find ourselves reaching “peak oil” because of an economic dilemma: while there seems to be plenty of oil available, the cost of extracting it may be reaching a point where it is more expensive than consumers can afford. As a result, some oil that we know about, and have been counting as reserves, will have to be left in the ground. The IMF has recently done modeling that is relevant to this issue in a working paper called “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures.” This analysis may provide some insight as to what the real situation will be. The Problem of Diminishing Returns One issue that the IEA has not properly modeled is the issue of declining resource quality, leading to diminishing returns and a rising “real” (inflation adjusted) cost of production. This situation is often described as reflecting declining Energy Return on Energy Invested (EROEI). The reason diminishing returns are a problem is because when a producer decides to extract oil, or gas or coal, the producer looks for the cheapest, easiest to extract, resource first. It is only when this resource is mostly depleted that the producer will seek locations where more expensive, harder to extract resource is available. Thus, over time, the inflation adjusted cost of extracting a resource tends to increase. In terms of the triangle shown in Figure 3 (see above left), producers tend to start at the top, with the “best” of the resource, and work their way toward the bottom. One result of this approach is that the cost per unit of production tends to rise, even as there are technology advances and efficiency gains, because the quality of the resource is declining. Reserves tend to increase over time with this approach, because as producers work their way down the triangle in the diagram, they always see an increasing quantity of lower quality resources. The new reserves are increasingly expensive to extract, in inflation adjusted terms. There is no flashing light that says, “Above this price, customers won’t be able to afford to purchase this resource any more,” though. As a result, the increasingly low quality reserves get added to reported amounts, even though in some cases, the cost of products made with these reserves (say gasoline or diesel) will send economies into recession. It should be noted that the issue of diminishing returns exists for almost any kind of resource. It exists for uranium extraction, since there is always more available, just harder to reach, or in lower concentration. Diminishing returns exists for gold, copper, and for nearly any other kind of metal. This means we often need more oil for metal extraction and processing, as we dig deeper or find ore that is mixed with a higher proportion of waste product.

No spare capacity – higher production levels don’t solve
Reuters 12 (News Organization, “World oil supply tightens in last 2 months: EIA,” http://dawn.com/2012/08/25/world-oil-supply-tightens-in-last-2-months-eia/ ;)
The EIA said on Friday global spare production capacity was “relatively tight by historical standards” at 2.4 million bpd, steady with the last report. Global inventories fell even as Saudi Arabia produced oil in July and August at a rate that was 900,000 bpd higher than its average rate over the last three years, the EIA said. The OPEC powerhouse is producing at higher rates as output in its rival Iran gets hit by sanctions on both sides of the Atlantic.

Transition to natural gas fails – we can’t integrate it into the economy
Tverberg 12 (Gail, Works in the insurance industry for casting and modeling, “Why Natural Gas isn’t Likely to be the World’s Energy Savior,” http://theenergycollective.com/node/131601 ;)
But I think that people who are counting on natural gas to solve the world’s energy problems are “counting their chickens before they are hatched”. Natural gas is a fuel that requires a lot of infrastructure in order for anything to “happen”. As a result, it needs a lot of up-front investment, and several years time delay. It also needs changes on the consumption side (requiring further investment) that will allow this natural gas to be used. If the cost is higher than competing fuels, this becomes a problem as well. In many ways, natural gas consumption is captive to other things that are happening in the economy: an economy that is industrializing rapidly will easily be able to consume more natural gas, but an economy in decline will find it hard to scrape together funds for new ways of doing what was done previously, now with natural gas. Increased use of renewables seems to call for additional use of natural gas for balancing, but even this is not certain, because in many parts of the world, natural gas is a high-priced imported fuel. Political instability, often linked to high oil and food prices, creates a poor atmosphere for new Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities, no matter how attractive the pricing may seem to be. In the US, we have already “hit the wall” on how much natural gas can be absorbed into the system or used to offset imports. US natural gas production has been flat since November 2011, based on EIA data (Figure 1, below).

Abiotic oil theory is stupid and inaccurate
Heinberg 4 (Richard, Senior Fellow-in-Residence at Post Carbon Institute, “The 'Abiotic Oil' Controversy,” http://rense.com/general58/biot.htm ;)
There is no way to conclusively prove that no petroleum is of abiotic origin. Science is an ongoing search for truth, and theories are continually being altered or scrapped as new evidence appears. However, the assertion that all oil is abiotic requires extraordinary support, because it must overcome abundant evidence, already cited, to tie specific oil accumulations to specific biological origins through a chain of well-understood processes that have been demonstrated, in principle, under laboratory conditions. Now, I like scientific mavericks; I tend to cheer for the underdog. Peak oil is itself a maverick idea, and for the past several years I have been promoting a view that the Wall Street Journal recently described as "crackpot." (14) So I feel a bit unaccustomed and even uncomfortable now to be on the side of the scientific "establishment" in arguing against the abiotic oil theorists. The latter certainly deserve their day in the court of scientific debate. Perhaps one day there will be general agreement that at least some oil is indeed abiotic. Maybe there are indeed deep methane belts twenty miles below the Earthís surface. But the important question to keep in mind is: What are the practical consequences of this discussion now for the problem of global oil depletion? I have not personally inspected the oil wells in Saudi Arabia or even those in Texas. But nearly every credible report that I have seen - whether from the industry or from an independent scientist - describes essentially the same reality: discoveries are declining, and have been since the 1960s. Spare production capacity is practically gone. And the old, super-giant oil fields that the world depends upon for the majority of its production are nearing or past their all-time production peaks. Not even the Russian fields cited by the abiotic theorists as evidence for their views are immune: in June the head of Russia's Federal Energy Agency said that production for 2005 is likely to remain flat or even drop, while other officials in that country have said that growth in Russian production cannot be sustained for more than another few years. (15)

The plan solves by providing a non-oil dependent transportation backbone – this solves the worst case scenarios of peak oil
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Benefits - Transferring inter-city freight from truck to electrified double stack container rail replaces roughly 20 BTUs of refined diesel with 1 BTU of electricity. This electricity is potentially renewable, and we can easily conserve the less than 2% of total electrical demand required to operate expanded and electrified railroads. Double Stack 53′ Containers (the standard length for “18 wheeler” trailers) The reasons for the efficiency advantage of electric rail rest on basic physics. Steel rolling on steel has about one-fifth of the friction of rubber on concrete or asphalt and electric motors are almost three times as energy efficient as diesel engines. Electric motors can also serve as generators when braking, converting motion back into electricity. Trains, especially double stack container trains, are more efficient aerodynamically than an equivalent number of trucks since one rail car reduces drag for the following car. This 20 to 1 replacement ratio, diesel “traded” for renewable electricity (or conservation), has significant economic, energy, environmental, public health & safety and national security benefits. Savings on the order of two million barrels per day or about 11% of current US oil consumption are possible. That 11% performs a critical service – one that will be difficult to reduce in an oil emergency – unless, of course, we can turn to an expanded and electrified railroad system. An electrified rail system that significantly reduces oil consumption before an emergency can also expand quickly to save even more oil during an emergency. Electrifying existing rail traffic trades 2.5 to 3 BTUs of refined diesel for 1 BTU of electricity and will speed up transit times a bit, 5% to 15% in the European experience. This creates an oil-free transportation backbone that can deliver food and other essential materials regardless of the severity and duration of any future oil shortage. This “new and improved” system can respond quickly to a prolonged oil emergency with proper planning. Just 3% of Switzerland’s transportation energy is used by electrified rail, but the Swiss transport 1/3rd of their freight tonne-km and 1/6th of their passenger-km with that 3%. This success helps explain why the Swiss voted to invest 31 billion Swiss francs over twenty years in improvements to their already excellent rail system. Adjusting for population and currency, an equivalent American investment would be more than $1 trillion. The plan envisioned here will take less money, proportionally, than what the Swiss are investing today.

Rail electrification covers 85% of needs in a crisis preventing oil rationing
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Chapter #1 – Electrified and Improved Railroads Overall Strategy - Create an Oil-Free Transportation system that can out-compete our existing oil based system. Electrified and improved oil-free railroads can competitively attract much, and likely most, of today’s truck freight traffic under current conditions of $80 per barrel oil and tax subsidized trucking vs. unsubsidized rail. Extant rail freight plus the freight transferred from trucks can be carried faster, cheaper, cleaner, greener, safer, more profitably and largely without oil, while creating an oil-free passenger network. At deregulation, the rail modal share of fruits and vegetables was just 1%. It has since grown to about 15% today. Transporting a majority of our fresh food ton-miles without oil is a realistic and very worthwhile strategic goal. A major goal of an electrified and improved rail system is that in the event of an oil supply shock (imagine $200 to $350 per barrel oil coupled with shortages), our oil-free transportation system can quickly expand to transport at least 85% of today’s inter-city truck ton-miles. This will allow food and critical materials to be transported oil-free and this shift will reduce the pressure on rationing oil to critical needs.

Two impacts –

First is energy scarcity – peak oil leads to civilization collapse and breakdown of society – causes widespread violence and human rights abuses
Morrigan 2010 (Tariel, the Principal Research Associate, Global Climate Change, Human Security and Democracy, October 2010, “Peak Energy, Climate Change and Collapse of Global Civilization,” http://www.global.ucsb.edu/climateproject/papers/pdf/Morrigan_2010_Energy_CC4.pdf ;)
Systemic Collapse and the Decline of Global Civilization Peak oil will have systemic effects throughout our entire global civilization. Korowicz explains that the contemporary world is based on: “...a globalising, integrated and co-dependant global economy evolved with particular dynamics and embedded structures that have made our basic welfare dependent upon delocalised 'local' economies. It has locked us into hyper-complex economic and social processes that are increasing our vulnerability, but which we are unable to alter without risking a collapse in those same welfare supporting structures. And without increasing energy flows, those embedded structures, which include our expectations, institutions and infrastructure that evolved and adapted in the expectation of further economic growth cannot be maintained.” In other words, not only is our civilization locked into a very complex and interrelated world economy, any attempt to significantly alter it and the energy and transportation infrastructure and the global economy on which it is based would cause it to collapse – but without an increasing oil energy supply, the infrastructure and economy on which our civilization is based cannot survive. A comprehensive analysis of the implications and potential consequences of a peak in global oil production is beyond the scope of this paper. Therefore, this particular topic will not be discussed at great length here. Instead, the reader is urged to read David Korowicz's report, Tipping Point: Near- Term Systemic Implications of a Peak in Global Oil Production – An Outline Review. Tipping Point provides a very clear and straightforward analysis of the implications and consequences of a peak in global oil production. Nevertheless, along with this analysis, it is worth summarizing the integrated collapse mechanisms and the possible consequences of peak oil as discussed by Korowicz. The principle driving mechanisms for a global economic collapse are re-enforcing positive feedback cycles except where noted, adapted from 95: • Declining oil and energy flows will increase economic costs and reduce global economic production. Reduced global production will undermine society's ability to produce goods and services, to trade, and to produce and use energy, which will further reduce economic production. • The global and industrialized economy is based on fractional reserve banking, compound interest, debt-based growth, and compound or unlimited growth. The economic theory on which the economy is based assumes unlimited energy supplies. Credit forms the basis of the monetary system. In a growing economy debt and interest can be repaid. In a declining economy they cannot be repaid. Therefore, declining energy flows cannot maintain the economic production required to service debt. When outstanding debt cannot be repaid, new credit will scarce. • In 2008, oil represented 41.6% of the global total final consumption of all fuels (e.g., coal, natural gas, etc.)7. Of this total, 61.4% was used for transportation; 9.5% was for industry; 12.9% was for other sectors (including agriculture, commercial and public services, residential, and other sectors); and 16.2% was for non-energy use7. • The major petroleum products many people are familiar with include petrol, aviation fuels, kerosene, diesel, lubricating oils and bitumen. However, refined oil also serves as a petrochemical feedstock for the production of plastics, synthetic rubber, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, electronics, packaging, fabrics, dyes, adhesives and paint. Therefore, oil not only provides the fuel for the growth of the global economy, it also provides many of the materials that support societies and from which modern civilization is built. A shortage of oil will result in shortages of plastics, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and other oil-based products necessary to build and support modern civilization. Society's localized needs and welfare have become very dependent on hyper-integrated globalized supply-chains (e.g, industrial, agricultural, water, energy). The system-wide functioning of global supply-chains is supported by monetary confidence and bank intermediation. The money in our economies holds no intrinsic value; it is backed by debt. When the economy is destabilized, deflation and hyper-inflation risks will also destabilize the monetary system. Furthermore, the banking system as a whole must become insolvent since their assets (i.e., loans) cannot be repaid. • The failure of globalized supply-chains will collapse world trade. In developed and industrialized societies, regional and local economies will breakdown since few goods and services are produced locally, but rather are imported and outsourced from the global economy. Therefore, the more complex and globalized the systems and inputs are on which modern societies rely, the more are societies at risk from a systemic collapse. • The global economy and supply-chains are also highly dependent on the operation of highly codependent critical infrastructure (e.g., energy, transportation, water, waste, food, finance, telecommunications, and Internet technologies). A systemic failure in one part of the infrastructure may cause cascading failure in the others. This infrastructure depends on continual re-supply of energy, materials, short-lifetime components; complex highly resource intensive and specialized supply-chains; large economies of scale; and the operation of the monetary and financial system. The interdependence of infrastructure is likely to cause rapidly increasing risks of systemic failure. • Since the Green Revolution started after World War II, the modern industrial agricultural system has become highly dependent on fossil fuel inputs (particularly oil and natural gas), the delocalization of food sourcing, and small just-in-time inventories. The failure of the modern food production system could result in rapidly evolving food security risks in both developed and developing countries. At risk is food production, the ability to link surpluses to deficits (i.e., distribute food from source to consumer), collapsed purchasing power, and the ability to monetize market transactions. • Peak oil is likely to cause a general peak in energy production and use (e.g., coal and gas generated electricity) (see Peak Energy Resources). The ability to develop new energy production and maintain existing energy infrastructure will likely be severely compromised. Massive energy demand and supply collapses will likely cause further decay of energy infrastructure and limit the ability to rebuild it. • The collapse mechanisms described above are non-linear, mutually reinforcing, and not exclusive. In other words, the above collapse mechanisms are interrelated, can happen simultaneously, can occur very suddenly and rapidly, and can cause and accelerate the occurrences of any of the other collapse mechanisms. • A principle initial driver of the collapse process will be growing awareness and action about peak oil and a growing awareness about the rapid decline of the financial sector and global economy. Investors will likely try to extract themselves from “virtual assets” (e.g., bond, equities, market funds, and cash) and convert them into “real assets” (e.g., property, precious metals, tools) before the system collapses. However, the nominal value of virtual assets likely far exceeds available real assets. Therefore, the confirmation of peak oil (e.g., by official and market action, and mainstream media discourse), fear, market panic, and market decline will drive a positive feedback in financial markets will accelerate systemic collapse. • Systemic collapse will evolve as a systemic crisis as the integrated infrastructure and economy of our global civilization breaks down. Most governments and societies, especially those that are developed and industrialized, will be unable to manage multiple simultaneous systemic crises. Consequently, systemic collapse will likely result in widespread confusion, fear, human security risks, [and] human rights abuses, and social break down.

Entropy means all structures of society fall apart post-peak
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
No, unfortunately it is not. The concept of Entropy comes from physics and thermodynamics. Basically, it says that any system will always exhibit energy dissipation. Energy will always go from a state of low entropy to a state of high entropy, meaning energy will always tend to dissipate, from being concentrated to being diffuse and therefore useless. Many structures that we are using were built with the help of enormous amounts of concentrated energy, mostly in the form of fossil fuels. If you leave those structures alone, if you do not keep adding energy to the system, then after a few decades, those structures will just fall apart.

Collapse of society reverses previous gains made by marginalized groups – dramatically increases racism, sexism, and homophobia
Baker 12 (Carolyn, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years, June 10th 2012 “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
During the past three years since the publication of my two books focused on the collapse of industrial civilization, Sacred Demise: Walking The Spiritual Path Of Industrial Civilization’s Collapse and Navigating The Coming Chaos: A Handbook For Inner Transition, I have been asked countless times how I predict that people of color, women, children, the elderly, and the LGBT community, the most vulnerable members of a society in chaos, will be treated as industrial civilization continues to unravel. Many point to James Howard Kunstler’s futuristic novels as one likely scenario. Kunstler essentially believes that during and after the demise of civilization, minorities will be blatantly scapegoated as a principal cause of the demise, and that as the criminal and legal systems crumble, virtually nothing will deter crazed and criminal elements from foisting all manner of violence on the most defenseless. In fact, Kunstler argues that the gains experienced by ethnic minorities, women, and gays in the past forty years will essentially be erased as berserk, belligerent males succeed in ruling the day. In Navigating The Coming Chaos, I wrote very candidly about how I imagine women will be treated as existing societal structures deteriorate. Frankly, I agree with Kunstler that women and minorities will be targeted, and that members of targeted groups who believe otherwise are pathetically naïve. While I have never launched a crusade to arm women, whenever I am asked about how I believe they will be treated in collapse, I implore them to learn self-defense techniques and if they are open to it, complete at least one training in the use of firearms—and to stay current with practicing how to use the weapons with which they have trained.

Social order will break down – those that survive the collapse will kill themselves
Church 10/23/06 (Norman, Independent Energy Analyst for Counter Currents, “Major Problems of Surviving Peak Oil,” Powerswitch, http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2026&Itemid=2)
It is difficult to think about 'how things will play out' when an oil-based global economy loses its cheap energy source. It has never happened before. It will never happen again. I think it quite probable that it will start very slowly, may be so slowly that we may not even see it start. It will take time for civilization to come apart, and the process will be like rolling down a slope, not like falling off a cliff. We will face a future of shortages, economic crises, disintegrating infrastructure, and collapsing public health, probably stretched out over a period of decades. The notion of holing up in a cabin in the hills with a stockpile of food and firearms is also not a realistic response. A few years of stored food and an assortment of high-tech paramilitary gear are hopelessly inadequate preparations in the face of this reality. Stockpiles of precious metals, another common hedge against collapse, are even more useless. All the gold in the world means nothing unless people are going to value it enough to trade what will be scarce resources for it. Many of the things that we take for granted -- food, water, heat, electricity, waste removal, medical care, and police protection -- will evaporate as the collapse accelerates. Riots will probably begin as food and water becomes scarce. Governments will attempt to take control of the situation and restore order, but it will become so widespread that it will be impossible. The primary killers will then become disease, starvation, dehydration, and suicide.

Peak oil turns all their impacts – current federal policy fails – transportation investment is key
WOTW 12 (War of the Words, Internet writer that is a analyzer of history and political theory living in the Pacific Northwest, 3/10/12, “Quitting Oil is a National Security Priority,” http://open.salon.com/blog/war_of_the_words/2012/03/10/quitting_oil_is_a_national_security_priority ;)
Our entire economy and capitalist system hang in the balance. The flow of cheap energy is the foundation of modern industrial capitalism. Yet we are doing nothing about the fact that this flow will eventually be cut off. It is a matter of uncontestable fact that oil is a finite resource. It is a fossil fuel that is created deep underground by the internal pressures of the Earth. Therefore, a day will come when that resource will be tapped out, and before that, a period when it will be so expensive and destructive to access it that the costs will outweigh the benefits. Even the staunchest defenders of fossil fuels must recognize deep in their hearts that the time of oil’s dominance will eventually come to an end. There is no scientific debate over whether or not peak oil production and eventual decline will occur; there is only debate about the timing of peak oil. Even the most optimistic analysts place the beginning of the decline in the 2020s. Can you image the consequences of rapidly rising oil prices? Even the recent, minor uptick is causing consternation and slowing economic growth. Plastic, one of the most ubiquitous substances in modern life, will become expensive and hard to produce. Industrial agriculture will be impossibly expensive, which will disrupt the food supply for millions of people. The ripple effects could bring down entire economies. Here is a chilling take on the possibilities from none other than the US military. The following is from the report Joint Operating Area 2010, which predicts decline starting this year, 2012, with a shortfall reaching ten million barrels per day by 2015: “While it is difficult to predict precisely what economic, political, and strategic effects such a shortfall might produce, it surely would reduce the prospects for growth in both the developing and developed worlds. Such an economic slowdown would exacerbate other unresolved tensions, push fragile and failing states further down the path toward collapse, and perhaps have serious economic impact on both China and India. At best, it would lead to periods of harsh economic adjustment. To what extent conservation measures, investments in alternative energy production, and efforts to expand petroleum production from tar sands and shale would mitigate such a period of adjustment is difficult to predict. One should not forget that the Great Depression spawned a number of totalitarian regimes that sought economic prosperity for their nations by ruthless conquest.” This crisis, the military analysts recognize, is “inevitable without a massive expansion of production and refining capacity.” However, even expanding our capacity to produce petroleum will only delay the inevitable rather than averting it. This is not a problem that the free market will solve on its own, for two critical reasons. The first is that there is a massive short-term economic incentive to continue in our current path. According to Sarah Anderson and John Cavenagh of the Institute for Policy Studies, in the year 2000, of the 100 largest economic units in the world, including both corporations and states, Exxon Mobil alone came in at 26th. Oil companies consistently post among the highest profits in the world. The oil industry is one of America’s most powerful lobbies. This market-distorting concentration of power will act to protect its short-term interests and prevent any movement away from oil and towards renewables. This has already happened- after the Second World War, a consortium of petroleum producers, tire manufacturers and car companies bought up massive amounts of public transportation infrastructure and subsequently destroyed it, cementing the dominance of the automobile. As oil production declines and oil prices rise, the oil companies will make even more money and thus concentrate even more power in their hands. The second reason is that governments around the world heavily favor the oil industry in ways big and small. The Bush Administration’s energy bill of 2005 included a 4.4 billion dollar subsidy for the oil and coal industries. We have consistently proven willing to use our military and foreign policy to ensure access to foreign oil reserves for American companies, as the Iraq war plainly shows. It seems almost cliché to point out that of all of the violent conflicts between Arab Spring uprisings and brutal, murderous dictators, the one in which NATO chose to intervene just happened to be in the country with the biggest oil reserves- Libya. There are bills currently before Congress that will eviscerate funding for public transportation and move that money to highway construction, including extending highway systems into national forests. This is another indirect subsidy to the oil industry.

Next is oil wars – peak oil will escalate oil competition and cause national outrage
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
A similar peak in worldwide production would have far more sweeping consequences. It would, for one, spell the end of the world’s unparalleled economic boom over the last century. It would also dramatically reorder the wobbly balance of power between nations as energy-challenged industrialized countries turn their sights on the oil-rich nations of the Middle East and Africa. In a peak oil future, the small, flattened, globalized world that has awed recent commentators would become decidedly round and very vast again. Oceans will reemerge as a hindrance to trade, instead of the conduit they have been for so long. An energy-born jolt to the world economy would leave no corner of the globe untouched. Unable to pay their own fuel bills, the tiny Marshall Islands this summer faced the possibility of going entirely without power. That is a reality that could sweep across many of the smallest and poorest countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, reversing many of the tentative gains in those regions and stirring deep social unrest. Large patches of the world rely almost entirely on diesel-powered generators for what skimpy electricity they now have. Those generators are the first to run empty as prices soar. A British parliamentary report released in June on “The Impact of Peak Oil on International Development” concluded that “the deepening energy crisis has the potential to make poverty a permanent state for a growing number of people, undoing the development efforts of a generation.”9 We are seeing some of the consequences already in Pakistan – a country of huge strategic importance, with its own stash of nuclear weapons – that is now in the grips of a severe energy crisis. By crippling the country’s economy, battering the stock market, and spurring mass protests, Pakistan’s power shortages could end up giving the country’s Islamic parties the leverage they have long needed to take power. It’s not hard to imagine similar scenarios playing out in dozens of other developing countries. Deepening economic unrest will put an enormous strain on the United Nations and other international aid agencies. Anyone who has ever visited a major UN relief hub knows that their fl eets of Land Rovers, jumbo jets and prop planes have a militarysize thirst for fuel. Aid agency budgets will come under unprecedented pressure just as the need for international aid skyrockets and donor countries themselves feel pressed for cash. A peaking of oil supplies could also hasten the impact of global climate change by dramatically driving up the use of coal for power generation in much of the world. A weakened world economy would also put in jeopardy the massively expensive projects, such as carbon capture and storage, that many experts look to for a reduction in industrial emissions. So on top of the strains caused by scarce fossil fuels, the world may also have to grapple with the destabilizing effects of more rapid desertification, dwindling fisheries, and strained food supplies. An oil-constricted world will also stir perilous frictions between haves and have-nots. The vast majority of all the world’s known oil reserves is now in the hands of national oil companies, largely in countries with corrupt and autocratic governments. Many of these governments—Iran and Venezuela top the list—are now seen as antagonists of the United States. Tightened oil supplies will substantially boost these countries’ political leverage, but that enhanced power will carry its own peril. Playing the oil card when nations are scrambling for every barrel will be a far more serious matter that at any time in the past. The European continent could also undergo a profound shift as its needs—and sources of energy—diverge all the more from those of the United States. A conservation-oriented Europe (oil demand is on the decline in almost every EU country) will look all the more askance at what it sees as the gluttonous habits of the United States. At the same time, Europe’s governments may have little choice but to shy from any political confrontations with its principal energy supplier, Russia. An energy-restricted future will greatly enhance Russia’s clout within settings like the UN Security Council but also in its dealings with both Europe and China. Abundant oil and gas have fueled Russia’s return to power over the last decade, giving it renewed standing within the UN and increasing sway over European capitals. The peak oil threat is already sending shivers through the big developing countries of China and India, whose propulsive growth (and own internal stability) requires massive doses of energy. For Beijing, running low on fuel spells economic chaos and internal strife, which in turn spawns images of insurrection and a breaking up of the continent sized country. Slumping oil supplies will automatically pit the two largest energy consumers—the United States and China—against one another in competition over supplies in South America, West Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia. China is already taking this competition very seriously. It doesn’t require much of a leap to imagine a Cold War-style scramble between Washington and Beijing—not for like-minded allies this time but simply for reliable and tested suppliers of oil. One region that offers promise and peril in almost equal measure is the Artic, which many in the oil industry consider the last big basin of untapped hydrocarbon riches. But the Artic remains an ungoverned ocean whose legal status couldn’t be less clear, especially so long as the United States continues to remain outside the international Law of the Sea Treaty. As the ices there recede, the risk increases that a scramble for assets in the Artic could turn nasty. No country, finally, will face more varied and far-reaching strains in an oil-constrained future than the United States. Its global military posture will have to shoulder even greater policing responsibilities, from the Gulf of Guinea to the Strait of Hormuz, just as it faces unprecedented challenges in keeping its own fuel tanks full. The United States will also see its very status as the world’s lone superpower [will be] put into question as its oil-dependent economy faces rising unemployment, falling home values, and the reality of being ever deeper in hawk to countries halfway around the world. The gloomiest prognosticators envision a future in which America’s entire postwar boom—with its massive interstates and suburban sprawl—is thrown violently into reverse. A jolt of even a quarter that magnitude could still spark a period of angry victimization, when both the public and their elected officials seek out those who are to blame for the country’s travails.

That causes the US to override rational calculations and ignite global wars for oil
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
In the United States, the prospect of diminished oil supplies and skyrocketing prices raises fears of recession, ebbing international status, and a transformation of the American way of life. In the big developing countries of Asia—above all China— the same prospect evokes images of mass unrest and the denial of potential superpower status. No country has been more determined than China over the last decade to assure that its rapid rise isn’t tripped up by a lack of energy. In Angola, Nigeria, Sudan, Iran, and across Central Asia, the Chinese government and Chinese state companies are going to extraordinary lengths to build infrastructure, create alliances, and sew up oil contracts. The ultimate aim is to lock in a number of long-term exclusive arrangements with suppliers in Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia that would give China the assurance it seeks that no supply disruption will derail its economic ambitions. China’s quest to build a major deep-sea naval force, analysts say, is driven in part by its desire to protect critical sea lanes like the Strait of Malacca, through which all Asia-bound Middle East oil must pass. The Defense Department, in its more recent report on the “Military Power of the People’s Republic of China,” said that beyond Beijing’s usual fixation on Taiwan, an “analysis of China’s military acquisitions and strategic thinking suggests Beijing is also developing capabilities for use in other contingencies, such as conflict over resources.”5 The Bush administration has also cast an increasingly wary eye on Russia’s myriad efforts to tighten its energy grip over Europe, particularly when it comes to Europe’s increasing dependence on imported natural gas. Beyond its own abundant supply routes to Europe from its own territory, Russia’s Gazprom is now busy working to lock down supply arrangements from the Caspian, Iran, and North Africa. The recent fighting in Georgia has highlighted Western Europe’s vulnerabilities on the energy front. A key energy conduit, Georgia is home to the only oil pipeline outside of Russian control that can move the oil riches of the Caspian region to markets in the West. In the first week of its August war with Georgia, Russia dropped bombs within feet of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline and took down a railroad bridge that carried Kazak crude to the Georgian port of Poti. At the same time, many of the recent fulminations in Congress over Saudi Arabia’s alleged unwillingness to boost its output illustrate that a strong sense of resource entitlement continues to live on within the U.S. political establishment. While Rep. Ros-Lehtinen demands heatedly that the Saudis pump more oil to help commuters in Miami, she also opposes calls to open Florida’s Gulf coast to oil exploration. Many commentators in the United States and abroad have begun to wrestle with the question of whether soaring oil prices and market volatility could spark an outright oil war between major powers—possibly ignited not by China or Russia, but by the United States. In a particularly pointed speech on the topic in May, James Russell of the Naval Postgraduate School in California addressed what he called the increasing militarization of international energy security. “Energy security is now deemed so central to ‘national security’ that threats to the former are liable to be reflexively interpreted as threats to the latter,” he told a gathering at the James A. Baker Institute for Public Policy at Houston’s Rice University.6 The possibility that a large-scale war could break out over access to dwindling energy resources, he wrote, “is one of the most alarming prospects facing the current world system.”7 Mr. Russell figures among a growing pool of analysts who worry in particular about the psychological readiness of the United States to deal rationally with a sustained oil shock. Particularly troubling is the increasing perception within Congress that the financial side of the oil markets no longer functions rationally. It has either been taken over by speculators or is being manipulated, on the supply side, by producers who are holding back on pumping more oil in order to drive up the price. A breakdown in trust for the oil markets, these analysts fear, could spur calls for government action—even military intervention. “The perceptive chasm in the United States between new [oil] market realities and their impact on the global distribution of power will one day close,” Mr. Russell said. “And when it does, look out.”8

Extinction
Lewis 1998 (Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)
Most critics would argue, probably correctly, that instead of allowing underdeveloped countries to withdraw from the global economy and undermine the economies of the developed world, the United States, Europe, and Japan and others will fight neocolonial wars to force these countries to remain within this collapsing global economy. These neocolonial wars will result in mass death, suffering, and even regional nuclear wars. If first world countries choose military confrontation and political repression to maintain the global economy, then we may see mass death and genocide on a global scale that will make the deaths of World War II pale in comparison. However, these neocolonial wars, fought to maintain the developed nations' economic and political hegemony, will cause the final collapse of our global industrial civilization. These wars will so damage the complex economic and trading networks and squander material, biological and energy resources that they will undermine the global economy and its ability to support the earth's 6 to 8 billion people. This would be the worst case scenario for the collapse of global civilization.

Resource wars are the most likely point of conflict
Klare 2006 (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)
It's official: the era of resource wars is upon us. In a major London address, British Defense Secretary John Reid warned that global climate change and dwindling natural resources are combining to increase the likelihood of violent conflict over land, water and energy. Climate change, he indicated, "will make scarce resources, clean water, viable agricultural land even scarcer" -- and this will "make the emergence of violent conflict more rather than less likely." Although not unprecedented, Reid's prediction of an upsurge in resource conflict is significant both because of his senior rank and the vehemence of his remarks. "The blunt truth is that the lack of water and agricultural land is a significant contributory factor to the tragic conflict we see unfolding in Darfur," he declared. "We should see this as a warning sign." Resource conflicts of this type are most likely to arise in the developing world, Reid indicated, but the more advanced and affluent countries are not likely to be spared the damaging and destabilizing effects of global climate change. With sea levels rising, water and energy becoming increasingly scarce and prime agricultural lands turning into deserts, internecine warfare over access to vital resources will become a global phenomenon. Reid's speech, delivered at the prestigious Chatham House in London (Britain's equivalent of the Council on Foreign Relations), is but the most recent expression of a growing trend in strategic circles to view environmental and resource effects -- rather than political orientation and ideology -- as the most potent source of armed conflict in the decades to come. With the world population rising, global consumption rates soaring, energy supplies rapidly disappearing and climate change eradicating valuable farmland, the stage is being set for persistent and worldwide struggles over vital resources. Religious and political strife will not disappear in this scenario, but rather will be channeled into contests over valuable sources of water, food and energy. Prior to Reid's address, the most significant expression of this outlook was a report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense by a California-based consulting firm in October 2003. Entitled "An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security," the report warned that global climate change is more likely to result in sudden, cataclysmic environmental events than a gradual (and therefore manageable) rise in average temperatures. Such events could include a substantial increase in global sea levels, intense storms and hurricanes and continent-wide "dust bowl" effects. This would trigger pitched battles between the survivors of these effects for access to food, water, habitable land and energy supplies. "Violence and disruption stemming from the stresses created by abrupt changes in the climate pose a different type of threat to national security than we are accustomed to today," the 2003 report noted. "Military confrontation may be triggered by a desperate need for natural resources such as energy, food and water rather than by conflicts over ideology, religion or national honor." Until now, this mode of analysis has failed to command the attention of top American and British policymakers. For the most part, they insist that ideological and religious differences -- notably, the clash between values of tolerance and democracy on one hand and extremist forms of Islam on the other -- remain the main drivers of international conflict. But Reid's speech at Chatham House suggests that a major shift in strategic thinking may be under way. Environmental perils may soon dominate the world security agenda. This shift is due in part to the growing weight of evidence pointing to a significant human role in altering the planet's basic climate systems. Recent studies showing the rapid shrinkage of the polar ice caps, the accelerated melting of North American glaciers, the increased frequency of severe hurricanes and a number of other such effects all suggest that dramatic and potentially harmful changes to the global climate have begun to occur. More importantly, they conclude that human behavior -- most importantly, the burning of fossil fuels in factories, power plants, and motor vehicles -- is the most likely cause of these changes. This assessment may not have yet penetrated the White House and other bastions of head-in-the-sand thinking, but it is clearly gaining ground among scientists and thoughtful analysts around the world. For the most part, public discussion of global climate change has tended to describe its effects as an environmental problem -- as a threat to safe water, arable soil, temperate forests, certain species and so on. And, of course, climate change is a potent threat to the environment; in fact, the greatest threat imaginable. But viewing climate change as an environmental problem fails to do justice to the magnitude of the peril it poses. As Reid's speech and the 2003 Pentagon study make clear, the greatest danger posed by global climate change is not the degradation of ecosystems per se, but rather the disintegration of entire human societies, producing wholesale starvation, mass migrations and recurring conflict over resources. "As famine, disease, and weather-related disasters strike due to abrupt climate change," the Pentagon report notes, "many countries' needs will exceed their carrying capacity" -- that is, their ability to provide the minimum requirements for human survival. This "will create a sense of desperation, which is likely to lead to offensive aggression" against countries with a greater stock of vital resources. "Imagine eastern European countries, struggling to feed their populations with a falling supply of food, water, and energy, eyeing Russia, whose population is already in decline, for access to its grain, minerals, and energy supply." Similar scenarios will be replicated all across the planet, as those without the means to survival invade or migrate to those with greater abundance -- producing endless struggles between resource "haves" and "have-nots." It is this prospect, more than anything, that worries John Reid. In particular, he expressed concern over the inadequate capacity of poor and unstable countries to cope with the effects of climate change, and the resulting risk of state collapse, civil war and mass migration. "More than 300 million people in Africa currently lack access to safe water," he observed, and "climate change will worsen this dire situation" -- provoking more wars like Darfur. And even if these social disasters will occur primarily in the developing world, the wealthier countries will also be caught up in them, whether by participatin9g in peacekeeping and humanitarian aid operations, by fending off unwanted migrants or by fighting for access to overseas supplies of food, oil, and minerals. When reading of these nightmarish scenarios, it is easy to conjure up images of desperate, starving people killing one another with knives, staves and clubs -- as was certainly often the case in the past, and could easily prove to be so again. But these scenarios also envision the use of more deadly weapons. "In this world of warring states," the 2003 Pentagon report predicted, "nuclear arms proliferation is inevitable." As oil and natural gas disappears, more and more countries will rely on nuclear power to meet their energy needs -- and this "will accelerate nuclear proliferation as countries develop enrichment and reprocessing capabilities to ensure their national security." Although speculative, these reports make one thing clear: when thinking about the calamitous effects of global climate change, we must emphasize its social and political consequences as much as its purely environmental effects. Drought, flooding and storms can kill us, and surely will -- but so will wars among the survivors of these catastrophes over what remains of food, water and shelter. As Reid's comments indicate, no society, however affluent, will escape involvement in these forms of conflict.

Absent resource wars, we are so dependent on oil, it causes mass outrage and regional wars around the globe
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
Many of the biggest names in the oil industry now agree on one point: That whatever the ultimate cause—be it political, geological or a mix of both—the world is now entering a new era of high energy costs and constrained supplies. Just as 1908 marked the birth of the Model T and the advent of the automotive age, historians may one day mark 2008 as the beginning of the end of the age of petroleum. The evidence is strong that this period is not a blip. John Hess, the taciturn chief executive of Hess Oil, made a particularly gloomy case earlier this year for why, as he said, “an oil crisis is coming.”1 Demand growth around the world is unrelenting, and has abated only slightly as prices have soared to unimagined highs. But more to the point, he said, is that the industry isn’t investing enough to surmount the many challenges on the supply side. As a result, oil supply capacity could hit its ceiling by 2015. Others argue that the shortfall could come much sooner. The purpose of this paper is not to argue whether the world is about to hit its oil-production limit. The long-running feud over peak oil remains heated and unsettled, with whole armies of geologists, oil executives and statisticians blasting away from either side. Instead, the aim here is to take the evidence of real trouble ahead, and to explore what strains it may impose on the world’s existing architecture. Evidence of the coming turbulence is not hard to find. The world’s two foremost energy forecasting shops, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA), are both dropping their habitual optimism and assuming a much darker view of the challenges ahead. The IEA in November will release its first-ever comprehensive study of the world’s oil supplies, and its conclusions are said to be chilling. A vast portion of the oil fields that fuel the world’s cars, trucks, airplanes and ships are now growing tired and depleting rapidly. That depletion rate means that around the world, oil companies every year must bring onstream nearly the equivalent of all of America’s annual oil production just to keep even. Many big producing countries, Norway and Mexico among them, are now in permanent decline. The problem the world faces can be summed up in a simple phrase: its supplies of oil are old and rapidly aging, while demand for that oil is young and rapidly growing. For the first time since the rise of modern capitalism, our society and its engrained way of life—its restlessness, its mobility, its reliance on sustained economic growth and expansion—may literally begin running short of fuel. The ramifications of a sustained supply shortfall, if it comes, will be massive and wide-ranging. Economists are just beginning to examine the dramatic changes the U.S. economy and the global trading system will experience if oil prices continue to notch ever higher. The average cost of a barrel of oil has crept up about $12 every year since 2003. Last year it averaged around $72 a barrel, a figure which this year is all but certain to remain over $100. What this summer has clearly shown is that oil at $150 a barrel or more would force wrenching changes in the United States, where planners would face the challenge of having to reverse a half century of development and sprawl built entirely around the automobile. Far less understood, though, are the equally sweeping national security challenges that will multiply as the impact of sky-high oil prices ripples through international capitals. The current world order has been built on cheap and abundant oil more than any other commodity. Without it, the United States could not have established a global military posture reaching from the shores of Italy to the Pacific outpost of Guam. Nor would the world have seen the breakneck industrialization and economic growth of the last century, much of it driven literally by the U.S. model of upward mobility and individual consumption. Oil, and the need to protect it, secure it, or fight over it, have figured prominently in nearly every major war of the modern age. Those impulses will only increase in an age of scarcity—and with a cast of players far more complicated than during any earlier energy crisis. At the end of the Second World War, as the only real industrialized powers, the United States and Europe jockeyed over control of the oil riches of the Middle East. By 1973, when the West got its first oil scare, the United States still produced a sixth of the world’s oil and consumed almost twice as much every day as did all of Asia, including Australia, China, India, and Japan.

Their nuclear war impacts are false – absent peak oil, common state rationality and the taboo check conflict
Tepperman 9 — Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)
A growing and compelling body of research suggests that nuclear weapons may not, in fact, make the world more dangerous, as Obama and most people assume. The bomb may actually make us safer. In this era of rogue states and transnational terrorists, that idea sounds so obviously wrongheaded that few politicians or policymakers are willing to entertain it. But that's a mistake. Knowing the truth about nukes would have a profound impact on government policy. Obama's idealistic campaign, so out of character for a pragmatic administration, may be unlikely to get far (past presidents have tried and failed). But it's not even clear he should make the effort. There are more important measures the U.S. government can and should take to make the real world safer, and these mustn't be ignored in the name of a dreamy ideal (a nuke-free planet) that's both unrealistic and possibly undesirable. The argument that nuclear weapons can be agents of peace as well as destruction rests on two deceptively simple observations. First, nuclear weapons have not been used since 1945. Second, there's never been a nuclear, or even a nonnuclear, war between two states that possess them. Just stop for a second and think about that: it's hard to overstate how remarkable it is, especially given the singular viciousness of the 20th century. As Kenneth Waltz, the leading "nuclear optimist" and a professor emeritus of political science at UC Berkeley puts it, "We now have 64 years of experience since Hiroshima. It's striking and against all historical precedent that for that substantial period, there has not been any war among nuclear states." To understand why—and why the next 64 years are likely to play out the same way—you need to start by recognizing that all states are rational on some basic level. Their leaders may be stupid, petty, venal, even evil, but they tend to do things only when they're pretty sure they can get away with them. Take war: a country will start a fight only when it's almost certain it can get what it wants at an acceptable price. Not even Hitler or Saddam waged wars they didn't think they could win. The problem historically has been that leaders often make the wrong gamble and underestimate the other side—and millions of innocents pay the price. Nuclear weapons change all that by making the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable. Suddenly, when both sides have the ability to turn the other to ashes with the push of a button—and everybody knows it—the basic math shifts. Even the craziest tin-pot dictator is forced to accept that war with a nuclear state is unwinnable and thus not worth the effort. As Waltz puts it, "Why fight if you can't win and might lose everything?" Why indeed? The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling, it's led to what's known as the nuclear peace: the virtually unprecedented stretch since the end of World War II in which all the world's major powers have avoided coming to blows. They did fight proxy wars, ranging from Korea to Vietnam to Angola to Latin America. But these never matched the furious destruction of full-on, great-power war (World War II alone was responsible for some 50 million to 70 million deaths). And since the end of the Cold War, such bloodshed has declined precipitously. Meanwhile, the nuclear powers have scrupulously avoided direct combat, and there's very good reason to think they always will. There have been some near misses, but a close look at these cases is fundamentally reassuring—because in each instance, very different leaders all came to the same safe conclusion. Take the mother of all nuclear standoffs: the Cuban missile crisis. For 13 days in October 1962, the United States and the Soviet Union each threatened the other with destruction. But both countries soon stepped back from the brink when they recognized that a war would have meant curtains for everyone. As important as the fact that they did is the reason why: Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's aide Fyodor Burlatsky said later on, "It is impossible to win a nuclear war, and both sides realized that, maybe for the first time." The record since then shows the same pattern repeating: nuclear-armed enemies slide toward war, then pull back, always for the same reasons. The best recent example is India and Pakistan, which fought three bloody wars after independence before acquiring their own nukes in 1998. Getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction didn't do anything to lessen their animosity. But it did dramatically mellow their behavior. Since acquiring atomic weapons, the two sides have never fought another war, despite severe provocations (like Pakistani-based terrorist attacks on India in 2001 and 2008). They have skirmished once. But during that flare-up, in Kashmir in 1999, both countries were careful to keep the fighting limited and to avoid threatening the other's vital interests. Sumit Ganguly, an Indiana University professor and coauthor of the forthcoming India, Pakistan, and the Bomb, has found that on both sides, officials' thinking was strikingly similar to that of the Russians and Americans in 1962. The prospect of war brought Delhi and Islamabad face to face with a nuclear holocaust, and leaders in each country did what they had to do to avoid it. Nuclear pessimists—and there are many—insist that even if this pattern has held in the past, it's crazy to rely on it in the future, for several reasons. The first is that today's nuclear wannabes are so completely unhinged, you'd be mad to trust them with a bomb. Take the sybaritic Kim Jong Il, who's never missed a chance to demonstrate his battiness, or Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has denied the Holocaust and promised the destruction of Israel, and who, according to some respected Middle East scholars, runs a messianic martyrdom cult that would welcome nuclear obliteration. These regimes are the ultimate rogues, the thinking goes—and there's no deterring rogues. But are Kim and Ahmadinejad really scarier and crazier than were Stalin and Mao? It might look that way from Seoul or Tel Aviv, but history says otherwise. Khrushchev, remember, threatened to "bury" the United States, and in 1957, Mao blithely declared that a nuclear war with America wouldn't be so bad because even "if half of mankind died … the whole world would become socialist." Pyongyang and Tehran support terrorism—but so did Moscow and Beijing. And as for seeming suicidal, Michael Desch of the University of Notre Dame points out that Stalin and Mao are the real record holders here: both were responsible for the deaths of some 20 million of their own citizens. Yet when push came to shove, their regimes balked at nuclear suicide, and so would today's international bogeymen. For all of Ahmadinejad's antics, his power is limited, and the clerical regime has always proved rational and pragmatic when its life is on the line. Revolutionary Iran has never started a war, has done deals with both Washington and Jerusalem, and sued for peace in its war with Iraq (which Saddam started) once it realized it couldn't win. North Korea, meanwhile, is a tiny, impoverished, family-run country with a history of being invaded; its overwhelming preoccupation is survival, and every time it becomes more belligerent it reverses itself a few months later (witness last week, when Pyongyang told Seoul and Washington it was ready to return to the bargaining table). These countries may be brutally oppressive, but nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish.

Status quo multilateralism empirically solves escalation – however, post-peak resource wars are the only scenario for nuclear war
Watson 5 (Roland, Author of various reports and the investment newsletter The New Era Investor, “Peak Oil & Nuclear War,” http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=912 ;)
Now here we are 30 years on. The Soviet Union has collapsed under its own weight, its satellite states have gone their own way and DEFCON is a word you don't hear very often. As we approach the 60th anniversary of the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, we may all feel a little bit confident in the ability of human beings to work things out between ourselves. Progressing into this new century, the disaster topics of the day are Global Warming and Peak Oil. Nuclear War is nowhere to be seen and is relegated to the "special interests" section. But if Peak Oil is the elephant in the living room, will Nuclear War turn out to be the brontosaurus (don't ask me what type of living room we are talking about here)? I have taken the view that Peak Oil in its initial stages is an economic event per se. If we only had to look at Peak Oil in those terms then things may be a bit predictable. However, life is a sequence of causes and effects. An obscure duke is assassinated and World War I ensues. The Treaty of Versailles is signed and Adolf Hitler arises. Global oil production hits a peak forever and nuclear war prevails. The last proposition is obviously not written in stone, but it ought to be discussed. Most of the nuclear warheads that people worried about in the 1970s are still around in some form. Where those missles are currently targetted continues to be state secrets. What does it take for them to be used? What are the stress points in international relations that send these harbingers of destruction skywards? Peak Oil commentators talk about "resource wars". Perhaps they are thinking of something along the lines of Gulf Wars I and II. Do they want to think in elephantine or brontosaurian terms? What will a nuclear power be prepared to do to get their point across? Hiroshima and Nagasaki ended one resource war, at what stage will they be used in the next resource wars? Now if anyone thinks these weapons will never be used again better think twice. They have been used and will be used again. We just hope they won't be used in our lifetimes. So what may happen? The scenarios are manifold but revolve around that phase in the post-peak oil era where things are beginning to bite. The wealthy nations have already been purged of their excess wealth and consumerism but alternate energy sources are coming online and offering some promise. However, some nuclear armed nations are not progressing as rapidly in those areas as they ought to. Their populations demand energy for the basics as well as life's little luxuries and they expect their governments to get it. The Middle East is now under a form of Western Protectorate as civil strife and war afflicts those oil producing nations and American warships ensure safe passage for oil supertankers through the Persian Gulf. Beset with young but disaffected populations, they struggle with economic depression and revolutionary islamic groups. Neighbouring Israel is the continued target of skirmishes and intermittent attacks as it nervously holds onto its nuclear trigger. Meanwhile, China demands a fair deal for distribution of crude oil production at the United Nations and threatens action against the USA and Britain if they persist in their "oil for protection" racket.

Resource scarcity is the only scenario for nuclear war and it will cause it – human nature and the US is unprepared
Cleveland Mark Blakemore, January 6th, 2010 (writer of Vault-co, “The Coming Nuclear War Over Resources,” http://vault-co.blogspot.com/2010/01/coming-nuclear-war-over-resources.html, this evidence is gender modified >:)
The Coming Nuclear War over Resources These conditions historically lead to war. [Human] is a warlike animal and has not changed one iota in recent times. [Humans] under stress who are forced to compete for resources turn to war because it is in their bloodstream. When the only biological weapon you have mentally is a hammer, every problem seems to you to be a nail. It is the genetic prison cell that lines our brains. If [humans] reacted any other way they would no longer be human as we know it. They would be something else. [A human] by definition is a creature who solves his problems by killing others and the spoils go to the genetic lines that kill first, without mercy or qualms. They are the [humans] who have borne the children who surround you right now. Our race is the lineage of Cain and only scarcity makes us act according to our innermost nature. Do you want to pause to try to think about a more rational solution? Well, your head will be crushed by a rock thrown by another [human] who simply acts impulsively and it is that [human] who will write history and lie down with your wives and daughters. See why this is a rigged game designed in such a way that sane people cannot win at it? The crazy thing is, because of modern weapons, psychopaths and sociopaths can't win at it anymore either. They won't allow that notion to stay their hand, however. Britain same. No growing season means no food and no food means worldwide famine. To produce more food with modern agricultural methods means you need more fuel The U.S. Government isn't worried. How bad could it be? It's not like the end of the world or anything. What is important is that cappuccino service is not interrupted, especially not those little mints on the side. Nobody is leaving Afghanistan until the question of who will control the Caspian pipeline is settled. That question will be solved by World War III. Anyway, it's not like everybody and their brother are all going to jump into one massive battle with each other otherwise in a global free-for-all.

Adapting now is key – waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition
Roberts 2004 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York Public Library Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)
Yet despite the staying power of the status quo, each year that energy consumption continues unabated, the end of the current energy system not only becomes more inevitable but appears more likely to occur as a traumatic event. As energy supplies become harder to transport, as environmental effects worsen, and as energy diplomacy sows even greater geopolitical discord, the weight of the existing energy order becomes less and less bearable – and the possibility of a disruption more undeniable. In the end, this question of disruption may be the most critical one of all – not simply for policymakers and oil sheiks, but for anyone accustomed to filling up at the gas station or switching on an air conditioner; for it is not simply change that affects us, but the rate of change – how quickly and cleanly one way of life is exchanged for another. A swift, chaotic shift in our energy economy almost guarantees disruption, uncertainty, economic loss, even violence. By contrast, were we somehow to manage a gradual, smooth change, phased in over time, we might be able to adapt, minimiz[es]ing our losses and even allowing the more clever of our species to profit from new opportunities.

====1ac solvency==== 

Only a National security priority can spur electrification as soon as possible
Drake 12 (Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, 6/6/12, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
One suggestion/possibility is to make electrification of our freight railroads a national security priority, with rail expansion an important secondary issue. The positive impact on the general economy, alone, can justify substantial public subsidies. BNSF, the second largest US railroad, said a few years ago that they could electrify their main lines for $10 billion, including new electric locomotives. This is a bit less than expected from standardized costs, which figured $85 billion to electrify 35,000 miles (STRACNET plus selected lines) with electric locomotives being considered a wash with the diesels they would replace. Extrapolating BNSF nationwide results in a roughly $50 billion estimate for a major strategic shift towards oil free transportation. With a maximum commercial effort (comparable to the current effort to expand tar sands production in Alberta - one step less than war time effort), 35,000 miles could be electrified in seven years (a six year schedule plus a year to allow for Mr. Murphy). Ten or twelve years at a more reasonable, steady rate. With concurrent railroad expansion, and current oil prices, this effort should save at least one million barrels of oil per day (a better overall value than the Kashagan oil field in Kazakhstan). Existing trends towards rail and intermodal shipments should reduce inter-city truck shipments by half as a cheaper alternative with competitive speeds becomes available. In the probable eventuality of higher oil prices, then the shift will be greater than half. In the strategically important area of food - refrigerated trucks use 60 gallons of diesel to just keep their cargo cool from California to the East Coast in the summer. Refrigerated electrified rail cars could use grid electricity. Shifting fruits and vegetables from reefer trucks to grid powered refrigerated railcars is another shift away from oil for essential freight.

Specifically, the plan solves the key bottlenecks in 3-5 years – that is the most cost effective solution
Drake 12 (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
In a rational rationing scheme during a severe oil shortage, diesel powered railroads would rank with the military, agriculture, public safety agencies, utilities and healthcare as among the highest priority users. Yet, railroads need not be large volume diesel consumers - regardless of the volume of freight and people carried. “We” can electrify the main rail lines and busiest branch lines and provide cross country oil free transportation for almost all of our freight and some of the demand for personal travel. The most viable large scale adjustment to reduce our strategic vulnerability to oil is to electrify and expand US freight railroads. Freight railroads already carry largely essential goods such as food and critical materials - freight that cannot be easily eliminated during an emergency. Line and terminal capacity improvements plus electrification of major corridors will dramatically reduce rail diesel use. More importantly, it will speed up rail shipments and allow freight currently carried by truck to be shifted to oil free transportation. The most essential parts of electrification and expansion of American freight rail lines can be completed in less than a decade with an urgent effort. The most critical lines could be electrified and bottlenecks eliminated in three to five years.

Empirics prove our solvency argument
Scaglia 10 (Paul, Writer and Resident in Connecticut, http://www.ctpost.com/opinion/article/High-speed-rail-a-national-security-priority-469566.php ;)
Although building these rail lines will be a tough and challenging endeavor to undertake, requiring the same kind of patriotism found during the race to put a man on the moon, the American people should see the issue in the national security issue context. With the rising powers of China and India seeking the same limited resources in the Caspian Sea area and a resurgent Russia buoyed by abundant reserves of natural gas and crude oil, American leaders need to embrace the creation of an alternate transportation network based on electrified high-speed and light rail systems.

Anything that is slower than the aff can’t solve
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages of positively and pro-actively transforming one major sector of the economy will help buffer the impact on all other sectors of the economy once world oil exports peak. That peak in world oil exports may have been five years ago in 2005 (the highest to date) or a new peak in world oil exports may be reached in 2030 (the most optimistic projection). A twenty year plan implemented ASAP will be completed in 2031 at the earliest. Regardless of whether the peak in world oil exports was 5 years ago, or will be 20 years hence, there is precious little time to adequately prepare for a future with less oil available each and every year. Starting today, we could stay “ahead of the curve” for a 2030 peak in world oil exports, but only with dedicated efforts. In the much more likely case that the USA will import less oil every year from this year forward, a maximum effort to build and promote oil-free transportation is clearly necessary.

Renewable energy is coming now but will fail – the plan is key to jumpstart development and solve the long term effects of peak oil
Harder 12 (Amy, Energy and Environment reporter for the National Journal, “Boom and Bust: Renewable Energy's Future?” http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/boom-and-bust-renewable-energy.php ;)
Could the recent boom in U.S. renewable energy go bust? That's what a recent report warns might happen given the state of current policy. Without a national energy policy providing certainty for renewable sources like wind and solar, the nascent industries could go bust after a few strong years as beneficiaries of the Obama administration's $90-billion injection of stimulus, suggests the report, conducted by researchers at the Brookings Institution and the World Resources and Breakthrough Institutes. Indeed, renewable-energy policy at the federal level is lagging. The wind industry's production tax credit is set to expire at year's end, and a popular grant program for all types of renewable energy expired last year. Cognizant of this, President Obama last week called on Congress to renew the wind industry's incentive and a manufacturing tax credit created as part of the stimulus. But lawmakers don't seem poised to tackle comprehensive policy providing long-term incentives for renewable energy anytime soon, and any action on temporary tax credits probably won't happen until year's end. And another recent report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way warns that without a national energy policy, the U.S. will lose any edge it has in the renewable-energy space to other countries like China and India that provide more stable federal support.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]