[[toc]]

=Dedev= 
==UQ== 
**Collapse inevitable and Tech fails – it can’t be developed fast enough, even if it can it can’t achieve 100% efficiency**
**Martenson** **9** [PhD in neurotoxicology from Duke University, and an MBA from Cornell University. A fellow of the Post Carbon Institute, former VP of Pfizer and SAIC, “Copenhagen & Economic Growth - You Can't Have Both,” Dec 24, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51229]
I want to point out that a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span> without doing things very differently.



==Warming== 
**Best scientific models show economic decline is key to solving anthropogenic run-away warming that will cause total extinction**
**Li 10** - Assistant Professor Department of Economics, University of Utah, (Dr. Minq, “The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism”, Paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The global average …….society-wide planning</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Section 6).</span>


==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">War</span>== 
**Growth makes war inevitable**
**Trainer 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If this limits-to-growth analysis …….The Simpler Way’. </span>

**Extinction**
**Chase-Dunn 96**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems at the University of (Christopher, Conflict Among Core States: World-System Cycles and Trends, 23 January 1996, http://wsarch.ucr.edu/archive/papers/c-d&hall/warprop.htm,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Note-figure omitted </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Late </span>__in the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">K-wave </span>__…….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"resource theory of war." </span>

**Economic decline doesn’t cause war**
**Deudney 91** – Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and
Environmental Studies, Princeton (Daniel, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Ebsco)

Poverty Wars. In a second scenario<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,……</span> __products and surplus wealth__.
=relational planning neg= 

==wormholes turn== 

===1nc=== 

Their Joronen evidence says that environmental management is bad – we’ll impact turn this – environmental management is critical to actualize transhumanism and advance civilization
Tirosh-Samuelson 8 – Professor of History at ASU
(Hava, “Engaging Transhumanism: The Meaning of Being Human,” [[http://www.metanexus.net/essay/engaging-transhumanism-meaning-being-human]], dml)

Placing the unlimited human potential (rather than the human as a currently lived experience
AND
technology will enhance human freedom and release humanity from the bondage of biology.

Continued technological development causes space col and a transition to a Type III civilization – solves their impacts and their inevitability claims
Kaku 4 – Henry Semat Professor of Theoretical Physics in the City College of New York
(Michio, “How to Survive the End of the Universe (In 7 Steps)”, [[http://discovermagazine.com/2004/dec/survive-end-of-universe]], dml)

A cold, dark universe is billions, if not trillions, of years in
AND
a way to undertake the ultimate journey of fleeing this universe for another.
THINK SMALL
Stephen Hawking has suggested that it might be possible to travel through a wormhole to
AND
via nanotechnology to re-create the entire civilization on the other side.
Such a plan may sound absurd. But there is nothing in physics that forbids
AND
an infinite number of other universes—has gained ground among working scientists.
The inflationary theory proposed by Alan Guth of MIT, to explain how the universe
AND
time, and new universes are forming even as you read these words.
Naturally, the proposal to eventually flee this universe for another one raises practical questions. To begin with, where exactly would an advanced civilization go?
As it happens, physicists are spending billions of dollars on experiments to probe the
AND
research team theorized, that would suggest the presence of a hidden dimension.
Newton’s inverse square law has been tested with exquisite precision by space probes, but
AND
proposed testing Newton’s inverse square law down to the atomic level using nanotechnology.
Physicists elsewhere are exploring other possibilities. In 2007 the Large Hadron Collider, the
AND
particles, which would indicate the presence of parallel universes in higher dimensions.
In addition, the space-based gravity-wave detector LISA (Laser Interferometer
AND
the Big Bang and probe for the existence of universes beyond our own.
To journey safely from this universe to another—
AND
on a scale that dwarfs anything imaginable by today’s standards.
To grasp the challenge, consider a schema introduced in the 1960s by Russian astrophysicist
AND
. The aliens in Independence Day would qualify as a Type III civilization.
By contrast, ours would qualify as a Type 0 civilization, deriving its energy
AND
civilization would have plenty of time to develop and test an escape plan.