=1NC-Framework= 
**The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webster’s</span> Guide to Grammar and Writing – <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**
[[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]
<span style="text-align: justify;">Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… <span class="underline">If </span>the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and <span class="underline">the </span>clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.</span>

**“Resolved” expresses intent to implement the plan**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Heritage Dictionary 2000</span>**
[[http://www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved|www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved]]
To find a solution to; solve…
<span class="underline">To bring to</span> a usually successful <span class="underline">conclusion</span>

**“Should” denotes an expectation of enacting a plan**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Heritage Dictionary</span> – <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000 </span>**[www.dictionary.com]
3 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Used to express</span> probability or <span style="font-size: 10pt;">expectation</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">“The United States federal government” is the central government in D.C</span>**
**WEBSTER'S ‘76**
<span style="color: black;">NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY UNABRIDGED, 1976, p. 833. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">Federal government. Of or relating to the central government of a nation, having the character of a federation as distinguished from the governments of the constituent unites (as states or provinces).</span></span>

**This is an explicit violation of our framework that undermines reliance on legal reformism**
**Orly <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lobel</span>**, Assistant Professor of Law, University of San Diego, October **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>** “The Paradox of Extra-Legal Activism: Critical Legal Consciousness and Transformative Politics” Legal Studies Research Paper No. 07-75
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As for moral perfectionism....</span>one right might lead us to betray another.

**Ground – The aff will always win that the principles of their advocacy are good in the abstract – we can only debate the merits of their framework if they defend the specific consequences of political implementation**
**Michael <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ignatieff</span>**, Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>** //Lesser Evils// p. 20-1
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As for moral perfectionism, this would be the doctrine that a liberal state ...</span>betray another.



**Topical education - By manipulating the topic to access their political project they skirt debate about the implementation of policies by the government. Their education is distrusting of institutional study and pragmatic reform. Even if their intentions are noble, their message results in fascist totalitarianism** 
**Martin <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span>**, Assistant Professor at George Washington, **19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span>** //Green Delusions// p. 258
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A majority of those born between ....become inconvenient niceties.</span>


**Limits – there are limitless contexts or avenues through which they could purport to advocate the plan. Our interpretation limits debate to promote politically relevant dialogue and structured communication**
**Donald S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lutz</span>**, Professor of Polisci at Houston, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>** //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 39-40

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aristotle notes in the Politics that political theory....moral vision of the non-theorist.</span>


**You must use your ballot to ratify constraints on discourse to preserve fairness**
**Ruth Lessl <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shively</span>**, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>** //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 179

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">To put this point another ....</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">that we can give them</span>.

**only specifically supported proposals will be able to overcome bureaucratic resistance to changing space policy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Nolan and Holmes 2008**,</span> Janne E Nolan, prof. of int’l affairs @ Pittsburgh, James R Holmes, assc. Prof. of strategy @ US Naval War College, March/April 2008, “The Bureaucracy of Nuclear Deterrence,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 64:1, p. 40-3; 55-8
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Another piece of.....</span>that’s what Americans elect presidents to do. 

=2NC Overview= 
**THE POLICY QUESTION OF THE RESOLUTION IS CRITICAL. IT ALLOWS DEBATE TO DEVELOP STUDENTS AS SOCIAL CRITICS**
**THE AFFIRMATIVE FRAMEWORK OF INDICTING THE STATUS QUO INVOKES QUESTIONS OF THE CURRENT SOCIAL ORDER**
**TURNS ALL THEIR OFFENSE**
**BRUSCHKE** Dpt of Speech Com @ Cal St Fullerton & WARNER Prof of Comm @ Univ of Louisville **2k1**Jon & Ede; Paper presented @ the 2001 Western States Communication Association Convention in Coer d’Alene, Idaho
[[http://commfaculty.fullerton.edu/jbruschke/Papers/Debate%20as%20a%20T]]
ool%20of%20empowerment.htm
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Academic debatefacilitates.....</span>question that they encounter.