<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Plan: </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The United States federal government should withdraw its forces from Atsugi naval air base and downsize its forces at Yokosuka naval base commensurate with the decommissioning of CVN 73. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Advantage One: China </span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Rapidly declining resources are crippling the Navy’s ability to perform critical missions </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Whiteneck, et al. ‘10**</span>__ (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, [[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__For the past 60 years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, since roughly the outbreak of the Korean War and the U.S. response to that war, the Navy has had a consistent strategy for the structure, deployment, and posturing of the fleet. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__American maritime dominance has been based on forces that were deployed forward and always ready to respond quickly to emerging situations__</span>** __in areas of vital interest to American foreign policy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Because of the perceived need to be able to respond at the highest levels of warfare throughout the Cold War, </span>__those forces were built, trained, and equipped to__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> be “combat credible” against capable challengers. “Combat credible” meant the ability to </span>__project power against advanced air defenses, conduct and enable littoral/amphibious operations in opposed environments, and establish blue-water dominance against highly capable surface, sub-surface, and air threats__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the post-Cold War environment, and since 9/11, </span>__evidence illustrates that the demand signal for naval forces has not waned__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In fact, </span>__the Navy continues to be tasked with a range of operations, from disaster response to peacetime engagement and shows of force, and from counter-piracy and maritime interdiction to participation in major combat operations__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by TACAIR and other power-projection forces. This demand signal did not go down during the 1990s (“reaping the peace dividend”) as the Navy took on persistent operations in the Balkans, the Caribbean, and the Arabian Gulf after Desert Storm, continued its role in Asia, and expanded its peacetime engagement as COCOMs increased “shaping” activities. After 9/11, the Navy shed its role in the Balkans and the Caribbean but increased its homeland defense role and its ballistic missile defense missions, and it has played a major part in strike operations for OIF and OEF for the past decade. </span>__The Navy also picked up significant roles in humanitarian assistance, maritime partnership building, littoral combat, and special operational forces (SOF), and routinely had over 10,000 sailors ashore in CENTCOM to support operations there. If the Navy hoped that reductions in the demand signal would give it breathing room to reset the force and invest in platforms and assets at the expense of operations, its hopes have proved to be false. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The Navy</span> battle force <span style="background: yellow;">has shrunk by 20 percent</span> in the last decade, while the number of ships on deployment has remained relatively steady. <span style="background: yellow;">In a period of constant demand, resources</span> to meet those demands, pay for needed future structure, and meet growing demands for spending on people and health care <span style="background: yellow;">have shrunk</span>. <span style="background: yellow;">They will not grow in the future</span>. There is a gap that must be addressed</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We defined the “global navy” as one that is dominant, ready, and influential. We accept these characteristics as proposed by the CNO and others throughout history as the appropriate language. We base our definitions on these terms and then compare them with attributes of past “global navies,” to see whether they are adequate. Our list of such navies includes Portugal, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, at the heights of their power. A dominant naval force must be compared to its potential adversaries and challengers. For centuries, this meant the capability to exert sea control when and where needed, to sustain operations in these areas indefinitely, to support and influence operations on land, and to ensure freedom of movement for a nation’s forces. To these long-standing definitions of dominance, the U.S. Navy has added the capability to do high-performance TACAIR, high-tempo submarine operations, large-scale amphibious operations, power projection from the sea with precision strike (TACAIR, TLAMs), and joint and combined operations. These numbers of assets reveal dominance in capacity, but they do not paint the whole picture. </span>__The Navy’s dominance has been cemented by its continuing operations and training in a range of capabilities that are unmatched by any potential challengers. The Navy has been able to translate this capacity into credible maritime combat power that has the following characteristics: strategic and tactical mobility; kinetic and non-kinetic options for the use of forces to influence events ashore and at sea; tailorable packages of forces that are sustainable at sea for long periods of time, support and enable amphibious operations; assured access and protection for maritime and joint forces; and command and control of international maritime coalitions across a spectrum of operations__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [1]. The global navy is deployed as a present force. </span>__The issue recently has been the ability of the Navy to maintain its ready posture in the face of declining numbers. Despite an 18 percent decrease in the size of the total battle force over the last 10 years, the percentage of the fleet deployed and the number of ships deployed have remained stable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Is this sustainable into the future? The Navy has maintained this deployment rate with a smaller fleet by changing the Fleet Response Plan (FRP) and the PERSTEMPO regulations, which has allowed for longer, more frequent deployments and doubling the percentage of the fleet assigned to the Forward Deployed Naval Force (FDNF) since 1998. We also note that over this time period, the number of ships training and exercising outside of CONUS has decreased from around 70 ships in 1998 to around 20 ships today. The number of ships forward is remaining constant, but the number of ships training is decreasing. A global navy is a ready navy. Both its deployed and surge forces are trained, manned, and equipped adequately. They are deployed globally so they can be ready to quickly respond to crises. They also have the capacity to flex forces from other global deployments to areas of instability and to serve as a “home fleet” that can surge for major operations. CNA’s study of the Navy as a flexible force and ready responder is well documented in previous CNA publications [2]. The trends toward more joint and combined responses have not diminished since 9/11. Responses have become routine for “shows of force” to deter and reassure or to “express U.S. interest and resolve.” Naval forces have also become routine humanitarian assistance/disaster response (HA/DR) responders because they are already deployed and ready. A global navy is influential. It exerts coalition leadership in peacetime and in war. It provides a framework for allied operations. It is a visible force for reassuring allies and partners that the government at home is committed to them and that it has resolved to place its military forces in harm’s way in support of those allies. It is a force flexible enough to provide that influence at any point in the range of operations, from a show of force to deter a regional threat to the imposition of a blockade, or the use of naval power to project force and dominate an adversary. It is influential because it can deter and reassure [3]. Maritime forces are uniquely qualified as hybrid forces. They are trained, equipped, and deployed as multi-mission platforms, capable of high-end war fighting performance. They know that when they deploy they are not likely to engage in major combat operations, but they are trained and equipped to that level. This means they can flex to that level, control escalation to that level, and be a ready force to deter potential aggression to that level. In reality, they will likely perform a range of lower-end operations and shows of force or maritime security operations and engagement activities that can be performed by the same assets. In addition, they are manned and led by personnel who have a wealth of experience and “training by doing” for these lower-end missions. The Navy performs these missions routinely, to reassure allies, engage new partners, and serve as tangible expressions of American interests and ongoing relationships in creating maritime security on a global level. </span>__Maritime forces have advantages over land and air forces in these areas because of their inherent flexibility, their visibility without heavy footprints on land, their self-sustainability, and their routine interactions with other maritime forces__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. (Being at sea and interacting with other nations in port visits, merchant interactions, and diplomacy is what navies have been doing for centuries.) This capacity is important because of the global commitments of the government. A global navy is a tool of a global power interested in political stability and economic activity across the globe. Its political and economic commitments are expressed in treaties and partnerships with other governments on several continents, and the navy is a visible sign of the government’s willingness to maintain a global presence. Does a study of past navies alter or add to our definition of the “global navy”? Portugal, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom all developed naval forces that had “global reach” over challengers. Their challengers were focused on land conquests and regional power, while these nations built forces with global capabilities (long-range ships with sustainment and access). Their forces led the way in innovation of new platforms, materials, weapons, and operational thinking (caravels, fluyts, dreadnoughts). They also commanded more than 50 percent of the capital ships of their time (CVNs, big deck amphibs, TLAM shooters, SSNs, and SSBNs). These were dominant navies, capable of winning battles from the West Indies to the Mediterranean to the Indian Ocean. The forces flexed from one theater to the next, were supported by sophisticated logistics networks and access agreements, and controlled the ladders of escalation from gunboat diplomacy to blockades, up to major naval actions that influenced the outcome of global wars involving land and sea forces [4]. These forces, in times of peace, secured the global commons and ensured freedom of movement of goods and people across the globe. They supported global trading systems from the age of mercantilism to the industrial revolution and into the modern era of capitalism. They were a gold standard for international exchange. These forces supported national governments that had specific global agendas for liberal trade, the rule of law at sea, and the protection of maritime commerce from illicit activities such as piracy and smuggling. All of these global navies supported their governments’ diplomacy and reinforced global partnerships and coalition leadership. In peacetime they engaged with local powers in India and the Far East. Their officers conducted trade talks from the North and Baltic seas to the Middle East. They carried ambassadors and merchants to weave political and economic networks that sustained global empires. </span>__U.S. naval forces have been postured globally as combat credible and forward present for the past 60 years. It has operated from the premise that forward presence and combat credibility provide maritime dominance__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Forward presence makes the Navy the ready responder to emerging situations and crises. The Navy, with 30 to 40 percent of its ships deployed on a routine basis, is already at sea as part of its normal operations. Presence is visibility: it means that U.S. interests are already signaled and that allies and other interested nations are aware of U.S. interests and commitments. Without presence, the ability to influence events and situations is greatly reduced. The options and range of responses available to the U.S. government are enhanced by the operational capabilities of naval forces. The combat credibility of U.S. naval forces has been a consistent factor of U.S. naval strategy for this period as well. Combat-credible forces are capable of a range of operations from shows of force to humanitarian assistance, up to the use of tactical air forces and missiles for precision attacks or as part of a large joint operation. Combat credibility for this entire period has been defined by the presence of carrier strike groups (carriers and their highly capable escorts of cruisers and destroyers), by amphibious forces able to influence events ashore, and by the ability to concentrate submarine forces for a range of missions from intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) to sea control. All of these forces have been supported by afloat logistics ships and a network of overseas bases and access agreements that have allowed such forces to be sustained indefinitely, as responses have turned into persistent missions. This global naval power has been exercised on the same scale as that practiced by previous naval powers (relative to historical time and means available). </span>__The Navy has defined its global presence as sustaining combat credibility in two hubs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (WESTPAC and the Mediterranean throughout the Cold War and </span>__WESTPAC and the__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> North Arabian Sea/</span>__Arabian Gulf__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> since Desert Storm). </span>__The Navy has maintained this presence in response to the consistent demands of many administrations for U.S. military presence by joint forces. Forces in these areas reflect long-standing U.S. political and economic interests, reassurance of allies, and deterrence of threats to regional stability__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__In addition, the Navy has maintained the capacity and flexibility to surge additional forces from CONUS and other parts of the globe for emerging conflicts and crises__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It also had the capacity for short-term surges and engagement activities by independent deployers in other parts of the world. These independent deployers took part in routine exercises with partners and allies from Latin America to Europe and Asia. They accompanied hospital ships on humanitarian assistance missions and responded themselves to natural disasters. They went on engagement and training missions such as the African Partnership Station or Southern Partnership Station. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The size of the Navy has ranged__</span>** __from fewer than 300 ships to more than 1,000 ships,1 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">but</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the forward presence and combat credibility parts of the Navy’s strategy for global preeminence have never changed</span>**__ __To be forward is to be ready, and to be combat credible is to be dominant and able to control escalation and de-escalation at any level of confrontation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The global reach and ambitions of the Navy also have never changed; to be absent is to forgo influence. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The world system in which the USN will operate is evolving__</span>** __along three dimensions at once__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__First, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the system is seeing the emergence of some strong <span style="background: yellow;">states</span> that can and <span style="background: yellow;">intend to challenge the</span> traditional <span style="background: yellow;">global order</span></span>** on certain economic issues and regional security issues. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">In Asia, <span style="background: yellow;">China</span> asserts more influence</span>** over regional issues__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from Korea around to the South China Sea. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In the Middle East__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and Persian Gulf region, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Iran</span> is an opportunistic regional power__</span>** __threatening Western-aligned states and Western interests__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Russia, humiliated for a decade, has a more nationalistic and defensive foreign policy in the territory of the former Soviet Union. In this environment, the coordination of Western allied responses has been more difficult. </span>__Second, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">there are elements of a chaotic future</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the area loosely defined by Tom Barnett’s “Gap” as outlined in his book, The Pentagon’s New Map (from Indonesia to South Asia and the Middle East, and on through most of Africa) [5], </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__especially in the region <span style="background: yellow;">from Morocco to Pakistan</span>, where terrorism and__</span>** __Islamic **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">radicalism continue to threaten U.S. interests and global stability</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The “long war” against Islamic radical terror looks like it will continue for years. Poorly governed areas and weak states will continue to allow groups that threaten local and regional security to survive. As long as there are groups that equate globalization and modern life with the triumph of the U.S., the threat of chaos from these groups will continue as they seek to turn back the tide. </span>__At the same time, part of the world is creating greater cooperative solutions to problems__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is characterized by the extension and strengthening of the democratic community of states, the continued management of the global economy without major crises by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) states through legitimized multilateral organizations, the absence of major regional conflicts between states, the limitation of third-world conflicts with minimal impact on regional stability, and the continued role of the U.S. as a global military power without parallel. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In this evolving world, the U.S. government expects the U.S. <span style="background: yellow;">Navy</span> to exert maritime dominance on demand. USN <span style="background: yellow;">responses</span>__</span>** __to the competitive world **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">will involve shows of force</span></span>** by combat-credible forces to deter regional challengers, participate in **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ballistic missile defense</span>** (BMD) deterrence **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">missions and <span style="background: yellow;">exercises</span> with allies and partners for reassurance</span>**, maintain a constant visible presence in WESTPAC and the Arabian Gulf/North Arabian Sea, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and react to threats </span>**to maritime commerce. The chaotic parts of the world will require responses, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ranging from</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> non-combatant evacuation operations (NEOs) to littoral operations (from counter-piracy to SOF and ISR), and from </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__maritime <span style="background: yellow;">interdictions</span> for the prevention of proliferation to limited <span style="background: yellow;">strikes</span> with power projection forces__</span>** __on proliferators. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">All</span> of these will have to be part of the Navy’s capabilities</span>**, in addition to continuing engagement with allies and partners who expect USN leadership of coalition maritime operations__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Navy will be the framework provider for regional coordination and partnerships, and naval cooperation will be part of integrated engagement processes involving whole-of government approaches. </span>__Within these broad global objectives, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the Navy’s responses <span style="background: yellow;">will be constrained by</span></span>** a set of external and internal factors__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which we turn to now. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The gap between the demands to respond to everything and the maritime resources to meet those demands__</span>** __is created by these external and internal factors__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Within the United States, the Navy’s options are framed by a number of issues that will remain constant throughout the foreseeable future. These constraints stem from political and economic realities, from the level of the federal budget, and from previous force structure decisions that have created the legacy fleet of today. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The__</span>** __first and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">largest constraint is the future of <span style="background: yellow;">the federal budget</span>, highlighted by expanding social spending, <span style="background: yellow;">high deficits, and the need to rein in</span></span>** all discretionary spending__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">military spending</span>__</span>** __included__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, especially as Iraq winds down and Afghanistan continues). This means that Navy budgets will not experience growth above the rates of inflation. Within that broad limit, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the Navy will find that <span style="background: yellow;">the downward pressure on ship numbers will be serious</span>, as the top number must encompass ongoing operations, rising service costs for health care and personnel, and increasing demands for ships with multiple mission capabilities__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (as numbers decrease, each ship must be expected to do more). The result is a future Navy that will reflect past investment decisions on CVNs, Virginia-class SSNs, LPD17s, Aegis platforms, and littoral combat ships (LCSs). </span>__The ability to rapidly create a force structure is also hampered because **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the lower budgets mean a shrinking industrial base</span>** to support a larger fleet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Within the DoD budget, the Service shares will remain unchanged. Since Vietnam, these shares have been consistent. They have not varied more than 1 percent, except for times of major combat operations. At those times, more money has been channeled to the land forces engaged and for their reset after the fight. We assume that those shares will continue into the future and that the Navy cannot increase its force structure or operating budgets by prevailing over the other Services in the annual budget battles or the Quadrennial DefenseReview/Quadrennial Roles and Missions (QDR/QRM) processes. The fleet will be called on to respond to situations, and its responses will be increasingly joint and combined. Navy TACAIR will be intricately linked with USAF access, tanking, and support. Joint ISR processes and space assets will be a part of maritime operations. The Navy will enable amphibious operations and SOF operations on a range of contingencies, and Navy strike and BMD operations will take place as part of coordinated campaigns involving all of the Services. At the other end of the spectrum, the Navy will conduct low-end and peacetime operations with partners who exhibit a range of capabilities that the Navy must adapt to, and it will have to be interoperable with non-DoD organizations to have maximum effect for these operations. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In the future, the <span style="background: yellow;">demand for the Navy will continue</span> to be part of an activist US foreign policy. <span style="background: yellow;">There is no end in sight for</span> coalition <span style="background: yellow;">leadership, counter-terrorism</span>__</span>** __on a global scale, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">or</span> the use of U.S. forces to demonstrate commitment and resolve</span>** in areas of interest__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The importance of access secured by continuous Department of Defense and Department of State efforts with partners will support this global presence. </span>__U.S. interests in securing the global commons (sea, air, space, cyber) will remain in place, and the U.S. will remain the guarantor of security for democratic nations through its near monopoly on high-end military power and defensive systems. Continued demand for active peacetime engagement by the U.S. military will be met by maritime diplomacy to support administration priorities and to support security cooperation activities by COCOMs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The Navy’s future options face a number of external constraints. These will shape the choices the Navy makes with regard to force structure, deployment patterns, operational priorities, and posture__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__First, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">there will be a continued demand for <span style="background: yellow;">a safe</span> and secure <span style="background: yellow;">global maritime environment</span></span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Advantages to having an open world economy and trade for all major powers are growing</span>**, and for the first time in the era of modern nation-states, no major power seeks to disrupt the open world economic system. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">All</span>** of the **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">states want access to the global maritime commons for shipping</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Increasingly, nations are trying to formulate a set of maritime rules to support local/regional development and maritime policing of illicit activities. </span>__Second, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">no other</span> country (or combination of <span style="background: yellow;">countries</span>) <span style="background: yellow;">will create the forces required</span> for a navy with global influence. America’s European allies, and its Asian allies</span>** as well, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">have created navies that are capable of sustained regional operations</span>**, or routine “cruising” by small squadrons of surface ships that show the flag, conduct engagement and exercises, and demonstrate national interest in economic ties with the visited nations and regions. These navies can also conduct short-term surges for uses of force against low end threats or act as supporters to USN-led naval operations; **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">however <span style="background: yellow;">persistent</span> out-of-area <span style="background: yellow;">operations</span> (even by a low number of assets) <span style="background: yellow;">would quickly deplete their resources and political support</span> at home</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Third, China’s economic growth will continue to underwrite military/naval modernization and increases in capacity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. China is behaving exactly as every growing nation has behaved since the dawn of the Maritime Age in the 1400s. Countries with growing economies and greater political power have translated this into larger and more modern navies as a sign of their power and intent to play a prominent role in global politics. China’s current aspirations in the first island chain will very likely expand to include all of WESTPAC and greater involvement along its maritime trade and energy routes from the Arabian Gulf to the Indian Ocean and back through the South China Sea. </span>__Fourth, the stability of WESTPAC and the area around the Arabian Gulf will continue to be cornerstones of global stability and of vital interest to the security of the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates. Economic activity in WESTPAC (trade statistics, shipping, largest ports, economic growth, export-oriented economies, need for job creation, dependence on resource flows) now accounts for most of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP). The United States remains the guarantor of regional stability for its allies (Japan, South Korea, and Australia) and is engaged in developing relationships with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries eager to balance a growing Chinese power. On the other side of the Straits of Malacca, the U.S. and India are engaged in greater cooperation and coordination on economic, political, and military aspects of the relationship. In the Arabian Gulf AOR, the U.S. interests will remain paramount for years. It is still the source of global oil and natural gas resources and reserves for America, its allies, and its adversaries. It is at the geographic center for radical Islamic terrorists and state sponsors who aim to attack the U.S. and its allies. It is the potential ground for WMD proliferation if Iran continues its nuclear program and Arab regional actors reply. </span>__In this environment, U.S. allies will continue to demand visible and credible signs of U.S. commitment to regional stability. In both areas, there will likely be an increasing ballistic missile threat, which will best be addressed by robust naval BMD assets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This is especially true of military presence in Asia – threatens collapse of regional commitments </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Akita ‘7**</span>__ (Hiroyuki Akita, Program on U.S.-Japan Relations, Harvard University, Nikkei’s Chief Correspondent in Washington, D.C., former Nikkei Correspondent in Beijing, M.A. International Relations, Boston University, B.A. Economics, Sociology, Jiyu Gakuen College, “U.S.-China Relations and Management of the U.S.-Japan Alliance,” USJP Occasional Paper 07-01, 2007, p.22-24, http://www.wcfia.harvard.edu/us-japan/research/pdf/07-01.Akita.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In Chapter 1, this paper mainly analyzes two major approaches driving U.S. China policy. Although there is a debate over what is the best combination of hedging and engagement elements in this policy, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__most__</span>** __U.S. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">policy makers agree</span>** that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__should maintain a strong military commitment to Asia to better hedge__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or engage </span>__a rising **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The next major question is to gauge the long-term U.S. capability to carry out its intentions. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If this capability weakens</span>** in the foreseeable future, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">options for U.S.-China strategy, as well as Japan-China policy, may be constricted</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For the United States to maintain a strong commitment to Asia, at least two kinds of resources will be required. The first is physical resources, such as the defense budget and military forces. The second is political support to sustain such a commitment. In other words, the U.S. government needs to ensure strong public support in order to continuously pay the costs and take the risks necessary to maintain a strong military presence in Asia. Constraints to Physical Resources Even with military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, current U.S. defense spending is relatively small in terms of its share of the gross domestic product (GDP). During the Korean (1953) and Vietnam (1968) conflicts, total defense spending was some 14.2 percent and 9.4 percent, respectively, of the GDP; in 2007, this figure is likely to be only about 4.5 percent.54 In this respect, the burden of defense spending on the U.S. economy as a whole is not so great as in the past. Some supporters of heavy defense outlays, therefore, insist that the United States can afford more in this regard. The trend over the past few years, however, is not indicating such an optimistic prospect. From FY 2000 to 2006, the regular “non-war” defense budget rose by about 22 percent after inflation.55 This increase, which does not include funding for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, pushed the level of defense spending above the peacetime average during the Cold War.56 Unclear prospects in the two present conflicts are also a heavy burden for federal spending. More importantly, </span>__pressures to reduce the federal budget deficit will be constraints on defense spending__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. According to a prediction by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the federal budget deficit will increase to more than $2 trillion over the next decade, even under optimistic projections.57 In order to tackle this serious deficit issue, in February 2007, the Bush Administration announced its intention to reduce the budget deficit very drastically starting in FY 2008 and to bring the budget into the black by FY 2012. </span>__Within the budget, mandatory programs such as Social Security and Medicare are likely to increase constantly, as the baby boomers reach full retirement age starting around 2010. Therefore, pressure on defense spending will increase, leaving less room for further drastic expansion. The structure of defense spending is also showing some constraints. Operation and maintenance spending is rising constantly due to the pressure to improve the quality of life in the military, and this trend will likely continue__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Since the Korean War, this expenditure per troop has increased at a yearly average of 2.6 percent above inflation.58 Even if the U.S. government ensures a certain growth of defense spending every year, the increase of these fixed costs may offset it. For example, the FY 2006 defense budget request was $131 billion more than that in FY 2000, but $77 billion (almost 60 percent) of this was in the “Military Personnel” and “Operation and Maintenance” accounts.59 Increases of these spending items are not directly linked to the QDR’s plan to expand naval forces in the Asia-Pacific, which is mainly aimed at better hedging against China’s military expansion. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Whether the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">can maintain a strong military commitment to</span> the <span style="background: yellow;">Asia</span>-Pacific <span style="background: yellow;">will</span> largely <span style="background: yellow;">depend upon the future posture of</span>__</span>** __the **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">naval</span></span>** and air **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">forces</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In February 2006, in order to execute the QDR plan, </span>__the U.S. Navy outlined a requirement for a fleet of 313 ships, which included 11 aircraft carriers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 66 submarines, and 62 guided missile destroyers. </span>__Yet, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">in addition to federal budget constraints, the rising cost of shipbuilding makes this</span>** plan more **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">difficult</span>** for the U.S. military to afford. It is widely believed that the Navy’s budget projections for shipbuilding associated with the 313-ship fleet plan largely underestimate the sharp rise in the costs of shipbuilding in recent years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.60 In short, although the Bush Administration has the clear intention to strengthen the U.S. military commitment to the Asia-Pacific region, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">there is</span> the <span style="background: yellow;">serious danger that the U.S. military cannot ensure the</span> necessary <span style="background: yellow;">funding to execute its defense plan</span>. <span style="background: yellow;">There is a significant gap</span> between the resources that the U.S. military requires and what is actually available__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This won’t shift naval strategy, only ensure failure </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Whiteneck, et al. ‘10**</span>__ (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.37-41, [[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">If the Navy continues on the current</span> shipbuilding <span style="background: yellow;">course</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of about six or seven ships per year, </span>__if the answer to the budget pressures of the future is to make proportional cuts among all the arms of the fleet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and if it tries to make incremental changes to operations and maintenance funding across the board, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__it will continue to leak capabilities and capacity__</span>** __throughout the next two decades__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 1. What does this navy look like? </span>__This navy would be based on proportional cuts in CVNs, LCSs, amphibs, Aegis platforms, and SSNs as the service strives to maintain the “balanced fleet.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">” An FDNF would be retained in WESTPAC because of the vast legacy costs already spent there, but the FDNF would not be as robust as it is now, with a CSG at its core and a number of BMD assets, but with reduced numbers of other strike and power projection forces. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__As the fleet shrinks, the capacity to cover__</span>** __the Arabian Gulf and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">its environs with <span style="background: yellow;">constant <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">CSG presence</span> will be lost</span></span>**. In addition, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">there would be reduced capacity for surging forces</span></span>** from CONUS **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">because reductions in operations and maintenance would impact readiness</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The “bathtub” for returning deployers would get longer and deeper for a smaller number of high end forces. The navy would rely more on war games and simulations for the training of its forces as budget constraints cut into steaming days and flying hours. 2. How does this navy create a “global effect”? A global navy of 230 ships would retain some level of visible forward presence force in WESTPAC to maintain influence with regional allies (Japan, Korea, Australia). In other areas of the globe, the navy could conduct routine “cruises” with low-end assets to engage low end navies for maritime security operations (MSO) and demonstrate commitment to regional stability. It could also conduct routine “cruises” of limited duration with high-end assets to work with allies/partners to demonstrate commitment and reassurance in the CENTCOM AOR, or other emerging threat areas. Reduced amphibious forces would be able to project adequate power ashore for the most probable range of low-end contingencies. It is likely that the Navy would still be the largest and most technologically advanced fleet, but it would be relatively less dominant as a unilateral force, with less capability to influence events ashore at multiple points around the world at any time. 3. What assumptions are made in creating this force? For the Navy to proceed down this path, it must make a set of assumptions about internal politics inside DoD and the government. It must also make another set of assumptions about the evolving world political system. The first is that maintaining a balanced fleet is a top priority and that symmetric cuts across the board can keep such a fleet and meet budget constraints. This would be founded on an assessment of the politics within DoD and the Congress, and the executive order that the Navy is politically constrained from making large changes in fleet direction and structure and strategy. Second, in the aftermath of Iraq, the government would be reluctant to carry out large-scale military operations in the CENTCOM AOR. This would lead to a reduced demand for combat-credible forward forces in the Arabian Gulf region for contingency and OPLAN execution. The U.S. would rely on its reputation in past uses of force to deter future regional aggression. This reduced demand is predicated on the assessment that there would be a lower threat from Iran, or a similar rogue nation, and Islamic terrorist activity. Maritime security operations (e.g., piracy) would continue to be handled by coalition actions involving a modest level of U.S. forces. On the other side of the world, WESTPAC demands could be addressed by the FDNF, with a regular backfill when necessary to maintain a 1.0 presence. This would be based on an assumption that PRC maritime capabilities and operations advance slowly, with more resources directed to internal developments and social programs than to an increasing military presence financed by double-digit military budget increases. The navy would be able to continue its global posture with the support of USAF forward basing and access. In addition, </span>__BMD demand would be limited to meeting a threat from only two rogue nations, with a limited capability that could be addressed by planned Aegis-fleet numbers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The navy would require__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> greater strategic and operational coordination with allies and partners on cruises for training and engagement with low-end navies to maximize shared interests and effectiveness. It would also require </span>__continued access to sustainment for cruising in-theater, with less reliance on organic logistics assets as the fleet shrinks and such assets are concentrated on the vast reaches of the Western Pacific__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 4. What risks are involved in creating this force? </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The inevitable conclusion</span> of this process <span style="background: yellow;">is that <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">the shrinking status quo Navy will do all things, but none of them very well</span></span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“managing” at 2/3 speed and hoping there are no shocks to the system). </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The steady slide down</span> the slope <span style="background: yellow;">could easily erode <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">combat credibility</span></span>__</span>** __(“hollowing out of the fleet”) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">and lead to <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">less reassurance of allies</span> in WESTPAC and</span> other places <span style="background: yellow;">around the world</span></span>**, over time. The allies outside of WESTPAC would lose the visible and combat-credible presence to deter threats in CENTCOM. In addition, the Navy runs the risk of looking just like other navies in that region, and elsewhere, most of the time. Except for scheduled cruises of CSGs for specific times and missions, the forces of the United States would be indistinguishable from other navies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Is that enough to deter? The answer to that question is subject to debate, and the navy would have to team with other navies while waiting for the arrival of dominant forces from CONUS. </span>__Reduced operations for returning deployers and surge forces risk reducing surge responsiveness, as well as the capability to conduct highend operations at the levels of safety and effectiveness that have characterized current naval operations__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If the missions were to become persistent, reductions in organic logistics could reduce sustainability, especially if local access and support were tenuous. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__At the end of the day, <span style="background: yellow;">the</span> risk is that a <span style="background: yellow;">Navy</span> 20 percent smaller than today’s <span style="background: yellow;">will lose</span> its flexibility to have <span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">escalation dominance</span> in major combat operations to decisively influence events ashore.__ </span>**__Is there a logical “tipping point” that can be numerically assigned?__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Is a 285 ship-Navy the tipping point, or is it at 250, or 230? At what number, does the Navy reach a point where it is no longer able to project combat credibility with constant forward presence? Is the Navy able to deter and reassure at 230 ships? It depends.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Scenario A: ASBM </span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The Chinese are deploying the DF-21D so that in any crisis situation, they can strike first and disable our aircraft carrier while in port at Yokosuka – miscalculations ensure escalation </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Yoshihara ‘10**</span>__ (Dr. Toshi Yoshihara, Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, 7-1-2010, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) [[http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In recent years, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__defense analysts in the U__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__S__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__have substantially revised their estimates of China's missile prowess__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A decade ago, most observers rated Beijing's ballistic missiles as inaccurate, blunt weapons limited to terrorizing civilian populations. </span>__Today, the emerging consensus within the U.S. strategic community is that China's arsenal can inflict lethal harm with precision on a wide range of military targets, including ports and airfields__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As a consequence, many observers have jettisoned previously sanguine net assessments that conferred decisive, qualitative advantages to Taiwan in the cross-strait military balance. Indeed, the debates on China's coercive power and Taiwan's apparent inability to resist such pressure have taken on a palpably fatalistic tone. A 2009 RAND monograph warns that </span>__China's large, modern missile and air forces are likely to pose a virtually insurmountable challenge to Taiwanese and American efforts to command the air over the strait and the island__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The authors of the report believe that massive ballistic-missile salvos launched against Taiwan's air bases would severely hamper Taipei's ability to generate enough fighter sorties to contest air superiority. They state: "As China's ability to deliver accurate fire across the strait grows, it is becoming increasingly difficult and soon may be impossible for the United States and Taiwan to protect the island's military and civilian infrastructures from serious damage."1 As a result, the authors observe, "</span>__China's ability to suppress Taiwan and local U.S. air bases with ballistic and cruise missiles seriously threatens the defense's ability to maintain control of the air over the strait__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."2 They further assert, "</span>__The U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__can no longer be confident of winning the battle for the air in the air. This represents a dramatic change from the first five-plus decades of the China- Taiwan confrontation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."3 An unclassified Defense Intelligence Agency report assessing the state of Taiwan's air defenses raises similar concerns. The study notes that Taiwanese fighter aircraft would be unable to take to the air in the absence of well-protected airfield runways, suggesting a major vulnerability to the island's airpower. The agency further maintains that Taiwan's capacity to endure missile attacks on runways and to repair them rapidly will determine the integrity of the island's air-defense system.4 While the report withholds judgment on whether Taipei can maintain air superiority following Chinese missile strikes in a conflict scenario, a key constituent of the U.S. intelligence community clearly recognizes a growing danger to Taiwan's defense. China's missiles also threaten Taiwan's ability to defend itself at sea. William Murray contends that China could sink or severely damage many of Taiwan's warships docked at naval piers with salvos of ballistic missiles. He argues that "the Second Artillery's [China's strategic missile command's] expanding inventory of increasingly accurate [short-range ballistic missiles] probably allows Beijing to incapacitate much of Taiwan's navy and to ground or destroy large portions of the air force in a surprise missile assault and follow-on barrages."5 These are stark, sobering conclusions. </span>__Equally troubling is growing evidence that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China has turned its attention to Japan</span>**, home to some of the largest naval and air bases in the world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Beijing has long worried about Tokyo's potential role in a cross-strait conflagration. </span>__In particular, Chinese analysts chafe at the apparent American freedom to use the Japanese archipelago as a springboard to intervene in a Taiwan contingency__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the past, China kept silent on what the People's Liberation Army (PLA) would do in response to Japanese logistical support of U.S. military operations. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Recent PLA publications__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in contrast, suggest that the logic of missile coercion against Taiwan could be readily applied to U.S. forward presence in Japan. The writings </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__convey a high degree of confidence that China's missile forces could compel Tokyo to limit American use of naval bases while selectively destroying key facilities on those bases__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">These doctrinal developments demand close attention from Washington and Tokyo, lest the transpacific alliance be caught flat-footed in a future crisis with Beijing</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This article is a first step toward better understanding how the Chinese evaluate the efficacy of missile coercion against American military targets in Japan. This article focuses narrowly on Chinese assessments of U.S. naval bases in Japan, excluding the literature on such other key locations as the Kadena and Misawa air bases. The writings on the American naval presence are abundant and far more extensive than studies on the land and air components of U.S. basing arrangements. The dispatch of two carrier battle groups to Taiwan's vicinity during the 1996 cross-strait crisis stimulated Beijing's reevaluation of its military strategy toward the island. Not surprisingly, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">the Chinese are obsessed with the U.S. aircraft carrier, including the</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __facilities and <span style="background: yellow;">bases that support its operations</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is against this rich milieu that this study explores how the Chinese conceive their missile strategy to complicate American use of military bases along the Japanese archipelago. This article first explores the reasons behind Beijing's interest in regional bases and surveys the Chinese literature on the U.S. naval presence in Japan to illustrate the amount of attention being devoted to the structure of American military power in Asia. </span>__Chinese analysts see U.S. dependence on a few locations for power projection as a major vulnerability__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Second, it turns to </span>__Chinese doctrinal publications__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which </span>__furnish astonishing details as to how the PLA might employ ballistic missiles to complicate or deny U.S. use of Japanese port facilities. Chinese defense planners place substantial faith in the coercive value of missile tactics__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Third, the article assesses China's conventional theater ballistic missiles that would be employed against U.S. regional bases. Fourth, it critiques the Chinese writings, highlighting some faulty assumptions about the anticipated effects of missile coercion. Finally, the study identifies some key operational dilemmas that the U.S.-Japanese alliance would likely encounter in a PLA missile campaign. EXPLAINING CHINA'S INTEREST IN REGIONAL BASES </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Taiwan remains the animating force behind China's strategic calculus with respect to regional bases in Asia. Beijing's <span style="background: yellow;">inability to respond to</span> the display of <span style="background: yellow;">U.S. naval power at the</span> height of the 1996 <span style="background: yellow;">Taiwan Strait</span> crisis proved highly embarrassing__</span>**__. There is evidence that the PLA had difficulty in monitoring the movement of the two carrier battle groups, much less in offering its civilian leaders credible military options in response to the carrier presence. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This galling experience <span style="background: yellow;">steeled Beijing's resolve to preclude U.S. naval deployments</span> near Taiwan <span style="background: yellow;">in a future crisis</span>. Notably, the Yokosuka-based USS Independence</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (CV 62) </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__was the first carrier to arrive at the scene__</span>** __in March 1996, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">cementing Chinese expectations that Washington would dispatch a carrier from Japan in a contingency over Taiwan</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Beyond Taiwan, <span style="background: yellow;">other territorial disputes</span> along China's nautical periphery <span style="background: yellow;">could involve U.S. naval intervention</span>. A military crisis arising from <span style="background: yellow;">conflicting</span> Sino-Japanese <span style="background: yellow;">claims over the Senkaku</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Diaoyu) </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">islands</span>__</span>** __northwest of Taiwan **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">could compel an American reaction</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. While doubts linger in some Japanese policy circles as to whether foreign aggression against the islands would trigger Washington's defense commitments as stipulated by the U.S.-Japanese security treaty, joint allied exercises and war games since 2006 suggest that the U.S. military is closely watching events in the East China Sea. </span>__Farther south, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chinese territorial claims over large swaths of <span style="background: yellow;">the South China Sea</span> could also be sources of regional tensions</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If a local tussle there escalated into a larger conflagration that threatened international shipping, the U.S. Navy might be ordered to maintain freedom of navigation. <span style="background: yellow;">In both scenarios, the U.S. carrier</span> based in Japan and other strike groups operating near Asian waters <span style="background: yellow;">would be called</span> upon as <span style="background: yellow;">first</span> responders</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Concrete territorial disputes that have roiled Asian stability are not the only reasons that American naval power would sortie from regional bases to the detriment of Chinese interests. More abstract and esoteric dynamics may be at work. For example, Chinese leaders fret about the so-called Malacca dilemma. China's heavy dependence on seaborne energy supplies that transit the Malacca Strait has set off Chinese speculation that the United States might seek to blockade that maritime choke point to coerce Beijing.6 This insecurity stems less from judgments about the possibility or feasibility of such a naval blockade than from the belief that a great power like China should not entrust its energy security to the fickle goodwill of the United States. If the U.S. Navy were ever called upon to fulfill an undertaking of such magnitude, forward basing in Asia would undoubtedly play a pivotal role in sustaining what could deteriorate into a protracted blockade operation. Chinese analysts have also expressed a broader dissatisfaction with America's self-appointed role as the guardian of the seas. Sea-power advocates have vigorously pushed for a more expansive view of China's prerogatives along the maritime periphery of the mainland. They bristle at the U.S. Navy's apparent presumption of the right to command any parcel of the ocean on earth, including areas that China considers its own nautical preserves. Some take issue with the 2007 U.S. maritime strategy, a policy document that baldly states, "We will be able to impose local sea control wherever necessary, ideally in concert with friends and allies, but by ourselves if we must."7 Lu Rude, a former professor at Dalian Naval Academy, cites this passage as evidence of U.S. "hegemonic thinking." He concludes, "Clearly, what is behind 'cooperation' is America's interests, having 'partners or the participation of allies' likewise serves America's global interests."8 Some Chinese, then, object to the very purpose of U.S. sea power in Asia, which relies on a constellation of regional bases for its effects to be felt (see map). </span>__Long-standing regional flash points and domestic expectations of a more assertive China as it goes to sea suggest that Beijing's grudging acceptance of U.S. forward presence could be eroding even more quickly than once thought. Against this backdrop of increasing Chinese ambivalence toward American naval power, U.S. basing arrangements in Japan have come into sharper focus__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. CHINESE VIEWS OF U.S. NAVAL BASES IN JAPAN Some Chinese strategists appraise Washington's military posture in the Asia-Pacific region in stark geopolitical terms. Applying the "defense perimeter of the Pacific" logic elaborated by Secretary of State Dean Acheson in the early Cold War, they see their na - tion enclosed by concentric, layered "island chains." The United States and its allies, they argue, can encircle China or blockade the Chinese mainland from island strongholds, where powerful naval expeditionary forces are based. Analysts who take such a view conceive of the island chains in various ways. Yu Yang and Qi Xiaodong, for example, describe U.S. basing architecture in Asia as a "three line configuration [...]."9 The first line stretches in a sweeping arc from Japan and South Korea to Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, forming a "zone of forward bases[...]." This broad notion that the U.S. presence in the western Pacific and the Indian Ocean constitutes a seamless, interlocking set of bases is widely shared in Chinese strategic circles.10 The second line connects Guam and Australia. The last line of bases runs north from Hawaii through Midway to the Aleutians, terminating at Alaska. While these island chains may bear little resemblance to actual U.S. thinking and planning, that the Chinese pay such attention to the geographic structure of American power in Asia is quite notable. These observers discern a cluster of mutually supporting bases, ports, and access points along these island chains. Among the networks of bases in the western Pacific, those located on the Japanese archipelago-the northern anchor of the first island chain-stand out, for the Chinese. Modern Navy, a monthly journal published by the Political Department of the People's Liberation Army Navy, produced a seven-part series on Japan's Maritime Self-Defense Force in 2004 and 2005. Notably, it devoted an entire article to Japan's main naval bases, including Yokosuka, Sasebo, Kure, and Maizuru.11 The depth of the coverage of these bases is rather remarkable, especially when compared to the sparse reporting on similar topics in the United States and in Japan. Perhaps </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">no other place captures the Chinese imagination as much as Yokosuka</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__, which analysts portray as <span style="background: yellow;">the centerpiece of U.S. basing in Asia</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.12 One analysis depicts a "Northeast Asian base group [...]" radiating outward from Yokosuka to Sasebo, Pusan, and Chinhae.13 Writers provide a wide range of details about the Yokosuka naval base, including its precise location, the surrounding geography, the number of piers (particularly those suitable for aircraft carriers), the types and number of maintenance facilities, and the storage capacity of munitions, fuel, and other supply depots.14 Wu Jian, for instance, finds the geographic features of Yokosuka comparable to those of Dalian, a major base of the Chinese navy's North Sea Fleet.15 Beyond physical similarities, </span>__Yokosuka evokes unpleasant memories for the Chinese. One commentator recalls the U.S. transfer of 203 mm heavy artillery from Yokosuka to Nationalist forces on Jinmen during the 1958 Taiwan Strait crisis__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.16 </span>__Tracking more recent events, another observer notes that the Kitty Hawk Strike Group's deployments from Yokosuka to waters near Taiwan invariably coincided with the presidential elections on the island, in 2000, 2004, and 2008__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.17 As Pei Huai opines, "</span>__Yokosuka has all along irritated the nerves of the Chinese people__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."18 Moreover, </span>__Chinese analysts are keenly aware of Yokosuka's strategic position__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As Du Chaoping asserts: </span>__Yokosuka is the U.S. Navy's main strategic point of concentration and deployment in the Far East and is the ideal American stronghold for employing maritime forces in the Western Pacific and the Indian Ocean regions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A carrier deployed there is akin to the sharpest dagger sheathed in the Western Pacific by the U.S. Navy. It can control the East Asian mainland to the west and it can enter the Indian Ocean to the southwest to secure Malacca, Hormuz, and other important thoroughfares.19 Ma Haiyang concurs: The Yokosuka base controls the three straits of Soya, Tsugaru, Tsushima and the sea and air transit routes in the Indian Ocean. As the key link in the "island chain," it can support ground operations on the Korean Peninsula and naval operations in the Western Pacific. It can support combat in the Middle East and Persian Gulf regions while monitoring and controlling the wide sea areas of the Indian Ocean. Its strategic position is extremely important.20 It is notable that both Du and Ma conceive of Yokosuka as a central hub that tightly links the Pacific and Indian oceans into an integrated theater of operations. Intriguingly, </span>__some Chinese commentators view Yokosuka as the front line of the U.S.-Japanese defense cooperation on missile defense. They worry that Aegis-equipped destroyers armed with ballistic-missile-defense (BMD) systems based in Yokosuka could erode China's nuclear deterrent__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Indeed, analysts see concentrations of sea-based BMD capabilities falling roughly along the three island chains described above. Ren Dexin describes Yokosuka as the first line of defense against ballistic missiles, while Pearl Harbor and San Diego provide additional layers.21 Yokosuka is evocatively portrayed as the "forward battlefield position" (...), the indispensable vanguard for the sea-based BMD architecture.22 For some Chinese, these concentric rings or picket lines of sea power appear tailored specifically to bring down ballistic missiles fired across the Pacific from locations as diverse as the Korean Peninsula, mainland China, India, or even Iran.23 Specifically, Aegis ships in Yokosuka, Pearl Harbor, and San Diego would be positioned to shoot down missiles in their boost, midcourse, and terminal phases, respectively.24 Chinese observers pay special attention to Aegis deployments along the first island chain. Some believe that Aegis ships operating in the Yellow, East, and South China seas would be able to monitor the launch of any long-range ballistic missile deployed in China's interior and perhaps to intercept the vehicle in its boost phase. Dai Yanli warns, "Clearly, if Aegis systems are successfully deployed around China's periphery, then there is the possibility that China's ballistic missiles would be destroyed over their launch points."25 Ji Yanli, of the Beijing Aerospace Long March Scientific and Technical Information Institute, concurs: "If such [seabased BMD] systems begin deployment in areas such as Japan or Taiwan, the effectiveness of China's strategic power and theater ballistic-missile capabilities would weaken tremendously, severely threatening national security."26 Somewhat problematically, the authors seemingly assume that Beijing would risk its strategic forces by deploying them closer to shore, and they forecast a far more capable Aegis fleet than is technically possible in the near term. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The indispensability of the ship-repair and maintenance facilities at Yokosuka emerges as another common theme in the Chinese literature__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Analysts in China</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> often note that Yokosuka is the only base west of Hawaii that possesses the wherewithal to handle major carrier repairs. Some </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__have concluded that Yokosuka is irreplaceable__</span>** __as long as alternative sites for a large repair station remain unavailable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Li Daguang, a professor at China's National Defense University and a frequent commentator on naval affairs, casts doubt on Guam as a potential candidate, observing that the island lacks the basic infrastructure and economies of scale to service carriers.27 China's Jianchuan Zhishi (Naval and Merchant Ships) published a translated article from a Japanese military journal, Gunji Kenkyu (Japan Military Review), to illustrate the physical limits of Guam as a permanent home port for carriers.28 Chinese analysts also closely examine Sasebo, the second-largest naval base in Japan. Various commentators call attention to its strategic position near key sea-lanes and its proximity to China.29 As Yu Fan notes, "This base is a large-scale naval base closest to our country. Positioned at the intersection of the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, and the Sea of Japan, it guards the southern mouth of the Korea Strait. This has very important implications for controlling the nexus of the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, and the Sea of Japan and for blockading the Korea Strait."30 </span>__It is clear, then, that Chinese strategists recognize the importance of U.S. naval bases in Japan for fulfilling a range of regional and extraregional responsibilities. Indeed, some believe that the American strategic position in Asia hinges entirely on ready military access to bases on the Japanese islands__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Tian Wu argues that without bases in Japan, U.S. forces would have to fall back to Guam or Hawaii. Tian bluntly asserts: </span>__If the U.S. military was ever forced to withdraw from Okinawa and Japan, then it would be compelled to retreat thousands of kilometers to set up defenses on the second island chain__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Not only would it lose tremendous strategic defensive depth, but it would also lose the advantageous conditions for conducting littoral operations along the East Asian mainland while losing an important strategic relay station to support operations in the Indian Ocean and the Middle East through the South China Sea.31 This emerging discourse offers several clues about Beijing's calculus in regard to U.S. naval basing arrangements in Japan. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Chinese strategists see these bases as collectively representing both a threat to Chinese interests and a critical vulnerability for the U__</span>**__nited **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">S</span>**tates. Bases in Japan are the most likely locations from which the United States would sortie sea power in response to a contingency over Taiwan. At the same time, the Chinese are acutely aware of the apparent American dependence on a few bases to project power. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Should access to and use of these bases be denied for political or military reasons, they reason, Washington's regional strategy could quickly unravel</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. While the commentaries documented above are by no means authoritative in the official sense, they are clearly designed to underscore the strategic value and the precariousness of U.S. forward presence in Japan. U.S. BASES IN JAPAN AND CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY Authoritative PLA documents correlate with this emerging consensus that U.S. bases on the Japanese home islands merit close attention in strategic and operational terms. Indeed, </span>__Chinese doctrinal writings clearly indicate that the American presence in Japan would likely be the subject of attack if the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__were to intervene in a cross-strait conflict. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The <span style="background: yellow;">unprecedented</span> public <span style="background: yellow;">availability of primary sources in China</span> in recent years <span style="background: yellow;">has opened a window onto Chinese strategic thought</span></span>**, revealing a genuinely competitive intellectual environment that has substantially advanced Chinese debates on military affairs. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This growing literature has also improved the West's understanding of the PLA</span>**. In an effort to maximize this new openness in China, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">this article draws upon</span> </span>**publications closely affiliated with the PLA__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, including those of the prestigious Academy of Military Science and the National Defense University, that address coercive campaigns against regional bases in Asia.32 Some are </span>__widely cited among Western military analysts as **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">authoritative works that reflect current PLA thinking</span></span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Some likely enjoy official sanction as doctrinal guidance or educational material for senior military commanders</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The authors</span> of the studies <span style="background: yellow;">are high-ranking PLA officers who are either leading thinkers in strategic affairs</span> and military operations <span style="background: yellow;">or boast substantial</span> operational and <span style="background: yellow;">command experience</span></span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">These works, then, collectively provide a sound starting point for examining how regional bases in Asia </span>**might**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> fit into Chinese war planning</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Among this literature, The Science of Military Strategy stands out in Western strategic circles as an authoritative PLA publication. The authors, Peng Guangqian and Yao Youzhi, advocate an indirect approach to fighting and prevailing against a superior adversary in "future local wars under high-technology conditions."33 To win, the PLA must seek to avoid or bypass the powerful field forces of the enemy while attacking directly the vulnerable rear echelons and command structures that support frontline units. Using the human body as an evocative metaphor for the adversary, Peng and Yao argue, "As compared with dismembering the enemy's body step by step, destroying his brain and central nerve system is more meaningful for speeding up the course of the war."34 To them, the brain and the central nervous system of a war machine are those principal directing and coordinating elements without which the fighting forces wither or collapse. The aim, then, is to conduct offensive operations against the primary sources of the enemy's military power, what the authors term the "operational system." They declare, "After launching the war, we should try our best to fight against the enemy as far away as possible, to lead the war to enemy's operational base, even to his source of war, and to actively strike all the effective strength forming the enemy's war system."35 In their view, operational systems that manage command and control and logistics (satellites, bases, etc.), are the primary targets; they relegate tactical platforms that deliver firepower (warships, fighters, etc.) to a secondary status. To illustrate the effects of striking the source of the enemy's fighting power, Peng and Yao further argue: To shake the stability of enemy's war system so as to paralyze his war capabilities has already become the core of the contest between the two sides in the modern hightech local war. So, more attention should be paid to striking crushing blows against the enemy's structure of the operational system . . . especially those vulnerable points which are not easy to be replaced or revived, so as to make the enemy's operational system seriously unbalanced and lose initiative in uncontrollable disorder.36 The authors are remarkably candid about what constitutes the enemy's operational system. Particularly relevant to this study is their assertion that the supply system emerges as a primary target: The future operational center of gravity should not be placed on the direct confrontation with the enemy's assault systems. We should persist in taking the information system and support system as the targets of first choice throughout. . . . In regard to the supply system, we should try our best to strike the enemy on the ground, cut the material flow of his efficacy sources so as to achieve the effect of taking away the firewood from the caldron.37 Destruction of the supply system in effect asphyxiates the adversary. In order to choke off the enemy's capacity to wage war, Peng and Yao contend, a "large part of the supply systems must be destroyed."38 Their prescriptions for winning local high-tech wars suggest that the horizontal escalation of a conflict to U.S. regional bases in Asia is entirely thinkable. Even more troubling, some Chinese appear to envision the application of substantial firepower to pummel the U.S. forward presence. While The Science of Military Strategy should not be treated as official strategic guidance to the PLA, its conceptions of future conflict with a technologically superior adversary provide a useful framework for thinking about what a Chinese missile campaign against regional bases might entail. </span>__There is substantial evidence in Chinese doctrinal writings that PLA defense planners anticipate the possibility of a sizable geographic expansion of the target set, to include U.S. forward presence in East Asia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Although the documents do not explicitly refer to naval bases in Japan, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">they depict scenarios strongly suggesting that Yokosuka is a primary target</span>__</span>**__. In the hypothetical contingencies posited in these writings, U.S. intervention is a critical premise, if not a given. In particular, Chinese planners expect Washington to order the deployment of carrier strike groups near China's coast, a prospect that deeply vexes Beijing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is in this context of a highly stressful (though by no means inconceivable) scenario that U.S. military bases come into play in Chinese operational thinking. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__For PLA planners, the primary aims are to deter, disrupt, or disable the employment of carriers at the point of origin, namely, the bases from which carriers would sortie__</span>**__. Given the limited capability, range, and survivability of China's air and sea power, most studies foresee the extensive use of long-range conventional ballistic missiles to achieve key operational objectives against U.S. forward presence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In Intimidation Warfare, Zhao Xijun proposes several novel missile tactics that could be employed to deter the use of naval bases in times of crisis or war.39 Zhao proposes demonstration shots into sea areas near the enemy state to compel the opponent to back down. Zhao explains, "Close-in (near border) intimidation strikes involve firing ballistic missiles near enemy vessels or enemy states (or in areas and sea areas of enemy-occupied islands). It is a method designed to induce the enemy to feel that it would suffer an unbearable setback if it stubbornly pursues an objective, and thus abandons certain actions."40 One tactic that Zhao calls a "pincer, close-in intimidation strike" is particularly relevant to missile options against U.S. military bases. Zhao elaborates: "Pincer close-in intimidation strikes entail the firing of ballistic missiles into the sea areas (or land areas) near at least two important targets on enemy-occupied islands (or in enemy states). This enveloping attack, striking the enemy's head and tail such that the enemy's attention is pulled in both directions, would generate tremendous psychological shock."41 Zhao also proposes an "island over-flight attack" as a variation of the pincer strike. He states: For high-intensity intimidation against an entrenched enemy on an island, an island over-flight attack employs conventional ballistic missiles with longer range and superior penetration capabilities to pass over the enemy's important cities and other strategic targets to induce the enemy to sense psychologically that a calamity will descend from the sky. This method could produce unexpected effects.42 While these missile tactics are primarily aimed at coercing Taiwan, they could also, in theory, be applied to any island nation. Reminiscent of the 1996 crossstrait crisis, the PLA could splash single or multiple ballistic missiles into waters near Yokosuka (shot across Honshu Island, over major metropolitan cities) in the hopes that an intimidated leadership in Tokyo would stay out of a contingency over Taiwan, deny American access to military facilities, or restrict U.S. use of naval bases in Japan. </span>__Should deterrence through intimidation fail, the Chinese may seek to complicate U.S. naval operations originating from bases located in the Japanese home islands__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Science of Second Artillery Campaigns, the most authoritative work on the PLA's strategic rocket forces, furnishes astonishingly vivid details on the conditions under which China might seek to conduct conventional missile operations against outside intervention.43 Notably, the document explores "firepower harassment" as a potentially effective tactic to resist external interference. Given its explicit references to the U.S. use of military bases on foreign soil, a passage on harassment strikes is worth quoting in its entirety: When the powerful enemy uses allied military bases in our periphery and aircraft carriers as aircraft launch platforms to implement various forms of military intervention; and when the powerful enemy's allied military bases around our periphery are beyond our air arm's firing range, and when the carrier battle groups are far away from our shores, thus making it difficult to carry out the overall operational advantages associated with firepower coordination among the armed services and service arms, conventional missiles can be used to implement harassment strikes against the military bases of the enemy's allies around our periphery as well as the carrier battle groups.44 In other words, PLA planners intend to assign long-range strike missions to the ballistic missile force if warships, bombers, and submarines prove unable to reach enemy bases. Since U.S. bases in South Korea are well within reach of China's short-range ballistic missiles, shore-based aircraft, surface combatants, and undersea fleet, the "allied military bases" to which the study refers can only be those located in Japan. For the authors, harassment strikes might involve periodic missile launches into "no go" zones erected near the naval bases, in order to "block the points of entry and exit to important enemy ports," or they might entail direct attacks against "key targets within the enemy ports, such as fueling and fuel loading facilities, and logistical supply facilities."45 Such operations would be intended to disrupt seriously the resupply and movement of U.S. naval forces. </span>__Beyond selective attacks, some **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chinese analysts advocate highly destructive operations against U.S. military bases</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In a study on the PLA's blockade operations against Taiwan, </span>__Chinese defense planners entertain the possibility of significant vertical and horizontal escalation to defeat U.S. intervention. The authors call for "opportune counterattacks" to defeat a carrier strike group engaged in combat operations against Chinese targets at sea, in the air, or on the mainland coast. In such a scenario, the PLA would do everything it could to successively weaken, isolate, and ultimately sink the carrier. In addition to lethal strikes against aircraft carriers, the authors envision concerted efforts to inflict massive damage on the military bases supporting carrier operations__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. According to Zhu Aihua and Sun Longhai, "To punish the external enemy and to accommodate world opinion, it is not enough to sink the external enemy's aircraft carrier. . . . It is necessary to destroy the springboard of combat operations, to pulverize the operational bases, to cut off the enemy's retreat . . . in order to render obsolete hegemonism and power politics."46 </span>__It is clear, then, that Chinese strategists have systematically examined the strategies, doctrines, and operational concepts for dissuading, disrupting, and denying the use of U.S. military bases along China's periphery. These studies suggest that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the PLA is prepared to calibrate the scale and magnitude of its military exertions against American forward bases across a spectrum that includes deterrence, compellance, and high-intensity conflict</span>**. It is equally evident that an extension of missile operations to the Japanese homeland is well within the bounds of Chinese planning. Should circumstances warrant, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the PLA may not hesitate to escalate a crisis or conflict radically with missile salvos directed at Japan, to demonstrate political resolve, preclude Japanese involvement, or unhinge U.S. intervention</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. U.S. BASES IN JAPAN AND CHINESE MISSILES </span>__A decade ago, Western analysts would have been on firm ground in dismissing such Chinese discussions about crippling U.S. regional bases as entirely wishful or even illusory. Indeed, they would have been justified in questioning Beijing's operational capacity to target U.S. bases in Japan even if it had possessed the will to do so__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. China simply could not have pulled off long-range, nonnuclear strikes beyond Taiwan. However, recent technical developments in the PLA's ballistic missile forces suggest that China is already in a position to fulfill at least the more limited missions elaborated above. If the pace of Chinese missile acquisitions continues, over the next decade Beijing will likely boast a formidable arsenal to shape events along the entire first island chain. The Pentagon's latest annual report to Congress on Chinese military power confirms the doctrinal writings surveyed in this study. According to the Department of Defense, PRC military analysts have also concluded that logistics and mobilization are potential vulnerabilities in modern warfare, given the requirements for precision in coordinating transportation, communications, and logistics networks. To threaten regional bases, logistics, and support infrastructure, China could employ SRBM/MRBMs [short-range and medium-range ballistic missiles], ground-launched LACMs [land-attack cruise missiles], special operations forces, and computer network attack (CNA).47 </span>__The report identifies **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the DF-21</span></span>** medium-range **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">ballistic missile</span></span>** as an operational weapon system that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">could reach any location along the Japanese archipelago</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Concurring, the National Air and Space Intelligence Center states that "China is . . . acquiring new conventionally-armed MRBMs to conduct precision strikes at longer ranges. These systems are likely intended to hold at risk, or strike, logistics nodes and regional military bases including airfields and ports."48 The exact size of the DF-21 force is not known in the public realm. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The Pentagon estimates that there are sixty to eighty DF-21 missiles__</span>** __and from seventy to ninety associated launchers **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">in the PLA's inventory</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.49 (The document does not distinguish between missiles armed with nuclear and conventional warheads.) The 2007 issue reports forty to fifty missiles and between thirty-four and thirtyeight launchers; </span>__the most recent report, therefore, represents **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a roughly 30 percent increase in two years</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.50 Ballistic and Cruise Missile Threat counts conventional DF-21 launchers as numbering fewer than thirty.51 The International Institute for Strategic Studies claims that thirty-six nonnuclear DF-21s are deployed, in two brigades.52 Interestingly, this figure is a new entry in the 2010 issue of The Military Balance; the previous tally lists only the nuclear variant, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__suggesting a much more rapid expansion of the conventional version than previously thought__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Since the missile's debut in the 1980s, the PLA has improved its accuracy, extended its range, and diversified the types of warheads it can carry.53 </span>__This emerging arsenal will likely play an important role in holding at risk or attacking U.S. regional bases__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.54 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Several intervening factors are likely to influence the future size of the DF-21 inventory__</span>**__. First, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China needs to build an arsenal large enough to overwhelm the ballistic-missile defenses fielded by the U.S.-Japanese alliance</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As noted above, some Chinese analysts forecast a capable sea-based BMD system that could intercept theater ballistic missiles. Chinese strategists would almost certainly have to take into account some level of attrition arising from successful missile interceptions. </span>__Second, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">some of the more destructive coercive options could trigger U.S. horizontal escalation</span>**, including conventional counterforce strikes against Chinese missile brigades on the mainland. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Thus, strategists in Beijing must anticipate potentially severe losses should the U</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__S__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__expand its target set__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. These numerical factors suggest that the Second Artillery Corps will almost certainly need a much larger DF-21 missile force to engage in the types of high-intensity operations outlined in the doctrinal writings. </span>__Observers may object that capabilities do not reflect intent. In other words, missile range, accuracy, payload, and force size by themselves constitute insufficient evidence of exactly what Beijing plans to hit__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Some may even find it implausible that China would attack a staunchly anti-nuclear-weapons state bound by a pacifist constitution, even if some of its real estate is occupied by a foreign military power. </span>__Nevertheless, the historical pattern of Chinese missile deployments since the Cold War suggests that U.S. bases in Japan have always been primary targets for nuclear strikes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the 1960s the PLA extended the range of its first operational nuclear-tipped ballistic missile, the DF-2, to ensure that it could reach all American bases in Japan. Beijing deployed the follow-on missile, the DF- 3, near the North Korean border to cover targets on the Japanese home islands and Okinawa. </span>__If China had always intended to violate its negative security assurances- that is, pledges not to attack nonnuclear third parties-with city-busting warheads, it should not be surprising that Beijing would field conventional missiles for use against Japanese territory. Indeed, the DF-21 may represent a far less "blunt" instrument than its predecessors did and offer a somewhat "surgical" option to Chinese defense planners__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.55 CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF CHINESE MISSILE DOCTRINE </span>__There are compelling reasons for the Chinese to consider vertical and horizontal escalation in coercive campaigns against regional bases in Asia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. At the same time, </span>__the PLA's missile force appears poised to extend its reach far beyond China's immediate periphery. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The alignment of <span style="background: yellow;">Chinese aspirations and capabilities will complicate crisis management and stability, escalation control, and war termination in</span> the event of <span style="background: yellow;">conflict</span></span>**. The gaps in Chinese doctrinal writings offer reasons to worry about these complications__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. First, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Chinese analysts seldom consider the mechanisms or chain of events that link the use of precision fire with the intended operational effects the PLA hopes to achieve__</span>**__. Most discussions assume or assert with certitude that the employment of certain missile tactics would induce a predictable set of American responses. But **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">closer examination suggests</span> that <span style="background: yellow;">strategists</span> may <span style="background: yellow;">have underrated the ability of U.S.</span> naval <span style="background: yellow;">forces to sustain operations</span> under severe duress, thus oversimplifying the action-reaction dynamic</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, the wholesale destruction of fuel depots and logistical facilities would not likely have a direct or immediate impact on a carrier strike group either en route to or actively operating in a combat zone. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The U.S. Navy could surge additional carriers into the theater of operations and rush at-sea-replenishment vessels from Guam, Hawaii, and San Diego to the scene. Such work-arounds would cushion a devastating blow against logistical facilities in Japan, enabling U.S. operations to continue unimpeded__</span>**__. Indeed,**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> many frontline units would not feel the effects of infrastructure damage in Yokosuka</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or Sasebo </span>__for many weeks__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In this scenario, China would likely have to settle in for a more protracted struggle. This potential outcome runs directly counter to the PLA's long-standing preference for quick, decisive victories at the operational level of war. Second, </span>__doctrinal publications exhort PLA commanders to maintain an offensive spirit and to seize the initiative in the opening stages of a military campaign. Indeed, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Chinese analysts insist that China should make the first move in any conflict</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A crushing initial blow would throw the enemy off balance, enabling the PLA to dictate the tempo of the war. As the Science of Second Artillery Campaigns asserts, </span>__To "strike the enemy at the first opportunity" mainly refers to the need for the Second Artillery conventional missile force to act before the enemy, take the enemy by surprise, and attack the enemy when it is unprepared during its operational activities__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It should be used first during the initial phase or at a certain stage of the campaign. . . . Therefore, in terms of campaign planning, it is necessary to launch attack before the enemy, strike first, and maintain the offensive intensity until the victorious conclusion of the campaign.56 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__More troubling, Chinese strategists foresee the preemptive use of conventional ballistic missiles against the enemy's rear areas__</span>**__: Using its advantages of concealment and surprise, active and intelligent response, and powerful penetration capability the missile force implements preemptive strike against the enemy's important in-depth targets. . . . Therefore, speedily striking the enemy, striving to seize the initiative, and avoiding losses are issues with which the campaign commander must first be concerned. It is necessary to strike the enemy at the first opportunity, before the enemy has discovered our campaign intentions and actions, surprise the enemy, act before the enemy, strike rapidly, catch the enemy by surprise__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.57 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Given these operational parameters, <span style="background: yellow;">the Chinese might conduct a bolt-from-the-blue missile strike against vulnerable carriers</span>__</span>** __and warships anchored and at **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">pierside</span> to knock out the U.S. Navy</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.58 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__An attack on a fleet in port would be akin to strikes against fixed targets__</span>**__. The impact-in terms of vessels sunk or damaged- would be direct, immediate, and relatively easy to measure__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Imperial Japanese Navy's surprise attacks against the Russian fleet at Port Arthur and the U.S. Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor illustrate the logic of such a bold move. From a strictly operational perspective, preemption is highly efficacious. </span>__At the same time, Chinese planners acknowledge the need to balance tactical advantages against the potential international backlash arising from foreign perceptions that China had launched an unprovoked attack__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. PLA writings are acutely attuned to such moral and reputational considerations. Yet they offer no concrete guidance as to how to reconcile the emphasis on striking first with the broader strategic factors that would likely hold back policy makers in Beijing, the final arbiters of the weighty decision to order a surprise attack. This tension between operational expediency and political imperatives is left unresolved. A policy/strategy mismatch looms It is entirely conceivable that even at the height of a major crisis Chinese decision makers might recoil from the missile options presented to them. They could very well reject preemption out of hand as overly incendiary and politically counterproductive. A precedent in Sino-U.S. Cold War history is illustrative. During the 1958 Taiwan Strait crisis, American civilian leaders rejected the military's planned nuclear riposte to Chinese provocations, on the grounds that massive retaliation was out of proportion to the confrontation at hand. President Dwight Eisenhower firmly declined to consider recommendations by the Pacific Air Force to order tactical nuclear strikes against Chinese troops massed near Xiamen.59 </span>__Whether PLA commanders are sufficiently attuned to national policy to anticipate similar civilian pushback or to appreciate the political rationales for restraint is unclear__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Third, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__escalation control will be a severe challenge for Beijing__</span>**__. Chinese writings exhibit an awareness of escalation problems associated with missile coercion. Analysts worry that misapplication of missile tactics could dramatically reshape the dynamics of the war, provoking greater exertions by the intervening power while widening the conflict, drawing in additional third parties__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As Zhao Xijun warns, "In conducting close-in intimidation strikes, one must maintain a certain distance from the enemy's border (sea area) line and select highly accurate missiles to prevent them from falling into enemy territory (or enemy occupied islands) or directly hitting the enemy's aircraft carrier owing to imprecision or loss of flight control."60 Zhao acknowledges that accidents or miscalculations that cross the bounds of intimidation could transform the nature of the conflict, to China's detriment. Suffering direct harm could harden an enemy's resolve substantially, immunizing him against subsequent attempts at intimidation. Concurring, The Science of Second Artillery Campaigns cautions, "Commanders should cautiously make decisions, choose the appropriate opportunities, select high-precision missiles for precision strikes against key targets, and prevent missile firepower from deviating from the targets and giving others the excuse to permit the third country's participation in the military intervention."61 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__An errant ballistic missile destined for the Yokosuka naval base could very well plummet into densely populated civilian areas surrounding the base or a major city along its flight path. It is conceivable that an aggrieved Japan would punish China by refusing to limit__</span>** __(or even agreeing to expand) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">U.S. access to military bases on the home islands</span>**. Indeed, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">continued Japanese acquiescence to American use of military facilities might be enough to foil China's strategy</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__But Beijing faces even more daunting challenges than the writings let on. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chinese defense planners seem to assume that the Japanese leadership and the public would make a clear, objective distinction between targeted attacks against strictly military installations and wanton strikes against civilian population centers. Missile launches against Yokosuka would be an act of foreign aggression against the homeland unprecedented since the Second World War. It is hard to imagine the Japanese quibbling about the nature and intent of Chinese missile strikes under such circumstances</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; the strident Japanese response to North Korea's Taepodong missile launch over the home islands in 1998 is a case in point. </span>__In other words, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the escalatory pressures are far stronger than the Chinese writings assume</span>**. Intimidation warfare will be neither clean nor straightforward. Indeed, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">it could unleash the forces of passion intrinsic to any war far beyond China's control</span>**. More broadly, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">PLA planners seem excessively confident</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">that</span>** certain missile tactics would accurately telegraph Beijing's intentions. They assume that the precise application of firepower could send clear, discrete signals to the adversary in times of crisis or war. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A small dose of well-placed missiles</span>**, they seem to believe, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">might persuade the enemy to back down</span>** or to cease and desist. This line of reasoning in part explains the counterintuitive logic that China could engage in escalation in order to compel its opponent to de-escalate__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The logic is as beguiling as it is potentially misleading. Missiles are not finely tuned weapons for those on the receiving end. The adversary may perceive what is intended as a warning shot or demonstration of resolve as a prelude to an all-out attack and then overreact rather than pausing or acting with caution. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The result</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __for the Chinese <span style="background: yellow;">could be unanticipated</span> vertical or horizontal <span style="background: yellow;">escalation, </span>or both__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Equally worrisome, operational interactions between Chinese and American forces could prove highly escalatory and destabilizing</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As Evan Medeiros and coauthors astutely observe, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the operational doctrines on both sides share a proclivity for seizing the initiative at the outset of a conflict through surprise, speed, and attacks against enemy rear echelons__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Medeiros further argues: </span>__Neither body of doctrine appears to consider how an adversary might react to such operations in a limited war-indeed, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">each </span>seems to <span style="background: yellow;">assume that it will suppress enemy escalation by dominating the conflict. Consequently</span> a Sino-American <span style="background: yellow;">confrontation would entail risks of inadvertent escalation</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> if military forces were permitted to operate in keeping with their doctrinal tenets without regard for escalation thresholds.62 </span>__It is clear, then, that an attack against regional bases is neither a trump card nor a substantially risk-free option. If plans go awry, as they always do in war, China could find itself in a protracted conflict against more than one implacable, well resourced enemy as intent as the Chinese upon achieving escalation dominance__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Whether Beijing would find the stakes over Taiwan or over another dispute sufficiently high to run such a risk is unclear. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Disturbingly__</span>**__, however, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chinese writings suggest that some segments of the PLA are inclined to accept the repercussions of a coercive campaign against U.S. bases in Japan</span>**. What explains this cavalier attitude about escalation? First, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">these writings may be symptomatic of a broad underdevelopment in coercion and deterrence theory</span>**. Chinese strategic theoreticians may still be grappling with the power and options that long-range conventional missiles confer on China. Beijing's analytical efforts to harness new military capabilities hitherto unavailable to it may be analogous to the growing pains that U.S. strategic thought underwent in the early years of the nuclear revolution. Second, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the absence of hard-won experience from modern warfare and crisis could account for optimism about escalation control</span>**. The Chinese have not fought a war for over thirty years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, since the Sino-Vietnamese border conflict. </span>__Moreover, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China has not yet confronted sobering incidents (comparable to the Cuban missile crisis) against which to reassess and radically revise prevailing assumptions</span>**. In short, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">it is easy to succumb to logical fallacies when operating in a theoretical vacuum</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Alternatively, Chinese overconfidence in managing escalatory pressures could reflect the lessons that defense planners learned from the cross-strait confrontation in 1996__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Some analysts in China have unequivocally concluded that the missile tests deterred the island from the road to independence while signaling clear redlines to the United States.63 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The notion that a limited number of missile launches could produce far-reaching success in coercive diplomacy is a seductive narrative likely to attract adherents within the Second Artillery Corps. Indeed, such an uncritical story line could reinforce preferences, biases, and faulty assumptions underlying the discourse within the missile community__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Troublingly, The Science of Second Artillery Campaigns explicitly credits the missile tests in 1995 and 1996 for generating multiple studies that "have filled in a blank in conventional guided missile operation theories of the Second Artillery Corps."64 A sample set comprising one case study is hardly a basis for universally applicable principles of war. Finally, the writings themselves may be a form of peacetime signaling. The studies clearly communicate to foreign audiences China's willingness to gamble in a big way in high-stakes disputes. If the doctrinal works convince outside powers that China may just be reckless enough to carry out the implied threats, they will have effectively cast a shadow of deterrence over potential adversaries. Mao Zedong's cunning efforts to deprecate the power of nuclear weapons-by famously depicting atom bombs as "paper tigers"-in order to signal Chinese resolve are instructive. </span>__Any combination of these reasons should give pause to those inclined to dismiss the strategic significance of the doctrinal writings__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL IMPLICATIONS FOR THE U.S.-JAPANESE ALLIANCE </span>__Washington and Tokyo will encounter a more complex geometry of deterrence with the emergence of a robust Chinese theater-strike capability. The action-reaction dynamic in the United States-Japan-China triangle will be far less straightforward than that of the alliance's deterrent posture toward North Korea. The existential threat that U.S. conventional and nuclear superiority poses to Pyongyang is often presumed to be sufficient to deter the North's adventurism. Such is not the case with China. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Boasting an increasingly survivable retaliatory nuclear strike complex, including a growing road-mobile strategic missile force and a nascent undersea deterrent, Beijing may be confident enough to conduct theater-level conventional missile operations under its protective nuclear umbrella</span>**. The war scares in the South Asian subcontinent over the past decade suggest that nuclear-armed regional powers, less inhibited by fears of enemy nuclear coercion or punishment, may feel emboldened to escalate a conventional conflict.65 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Japan</span> and its many lucrative basing targets <span style="background: yellow;">could well become a</span> conventional, theater-level <span style="background: yellow;">battlefield trapped between two nuclear-armed powers</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Assuming that vertical escalation toward nuclear use can be contained, the alliance must still consider efforts at denying attempts to punish Japan. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Allied <span style="background: yellow;">missile defenses</span>, as they are currently configured, <span style="background: yellow;">will have great difficulty coping with</span> theater ballistic missiles like <span style="background: yellow;">the DF-21</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the context of a cross-strait scenario, retired rear admiral Eric McVadon observes, "</span>__Being an MRBM with a much higher reentry velocity than SRBMs, the DF-21C is virtually invulnerable to any missile defenses__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Taiwan might contemplate."66 While the alliance possesses a far more sophisticated, multilayered missile defense architecture than does Taipei, longer-range missiles pose similar stresses to the defense of Japan. </span>__If the missiles were fired from launch sites in northeastern China, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">allied response times would be very compressed</span></span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Inexpensive techniques and <span style="background: yellow;">countermeasures</span></span>** by the PLA, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">such as saturation tactics and decoys, could</span> be employed to <span style="background: yellow;">overwhelm or defeat missile defenses</span></span>**, which are designed for less sophisticated regional threats from North Korea and Iran__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If the Second Artillery Corps launched successive missile salvos against the same strategic site, the alliance could quickly exhaust its ammunition, constraining its ability to defend other targets. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Escalation control would also bedevil the alliance__</span>**__. One critical escalation threshold pertains to the initiation of hostilities were China to prepare for or launch its first missile strike. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The allies would be very hard-pressed to distinguish confidently conventional missiles from nuclear-tipped missiles</span>**. Indeed, finding the missiles at all would be hard enough, since the road-mobile DF-21s would almost certainly disperse to a variety of concealed launch sites to diminish the threat of a disarming preemptive strike by enemy forces. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">To compound matters, Chinese conventional missiles might share the basing facilities with their nuclear counterparts</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Space-based surveillance and reconnaissance would provide at best an incomplete picture of China's wartime missile posture. </span>__In short, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">no one would know</span> for sure <span style="background: yellow;">whether a Chinese warhead hurtling toward Yokosuka was</span> a <span style="background: yellow;">nuclear or</span> a <span style="background: yellow;">conventional</span> weapon</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The fog and friction that accompany any crisis or war would multiply this uncertainty</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Would the alliance be willing to discount the possibility that the launch could be a nuclear strike? Or would it assume the worst? In the event of Chinese conventional bombardment, what would be the appropriate military response from the United States? What might underlie and inform Japanese expectations of the U.S. reaction? Would the alliance be prepared to expand the war to the mainland? Would a besieged Japan demand more punitive strikes against China than the United States would be willing to inflict? Would Tokyo lose confidence in Washington if the latter refrained from what it considered disproportionate escalation? What would be the consequences of such a breakdown in trust during and after the conflict? These troubling questions make it imperative that Tokyo and Washington clearly recognize the operational temptations to overreact and the political consequences of underreaction. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Though prudence calls for restraint, <span style="background: yellow;">the stresses of crisis and war could radically skew rational calculations</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The foregoing analysis demonstrates that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">theater-level interactions involving conventional missile strikes against regional bases could be highly unstable and prone to miscalculation on all sides</span>**. The apparent underdevelopment of Chinese doctrine on missile coercion, littered as it is with questionable assumptions about the adversary, could exacerbate this latent instability. In the meantime, it seems that the U.S.-Japanese alliance has not moved far beyond rudimentary discussions of extended deterrence, a concept that does not fully capture the complexities of the emerging missile threat in Asia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.67 It thus behooves Washington and Tokyo to anticipate a far more ambiguous and stressful operational environment than has been the case over the past two decades. The alliance must come to grips with the advances in Chinese thinking about coercive campaigns while exploring options for hardening the partnership, both politically and militarily, against Beijing's emerging missile strategy.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The impact is extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Straits Times 2K**</span>__ (“No one gains in war over Taiwan,” 6-25-2000, l/n) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO </span>__THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">a full-scale war between the US and China</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. </span>__Conflict on such a scale **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">would embroil other countries far and near and</span></span>** -horror of horrors -**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">raise the possibility of a</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">nuclear war</span>**</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span>__If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">opportunistic powers</span>** elsewhere **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">may try to overturn the existing world order</span>**. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons.</span>__If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">there is little hope of winning a war against China</span>** 50 years later, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">short of using nuclear weapons</span>**. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation</span>__</span>**__. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Closing Atsugi and downsizing Yokosuka is removes the carrier from the Chinese target set while continuing to provide support to the Seventh Fleet </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Meyer ‘9**</span>__ (Captain Carlton W. Meyer, military writer, [[mailto:editor@G2mil.com|editor at G2mil.com]], served as an officer and combat engineer in the U.S. Marine Corps, “Outdated U.S. Military Bases in Japan,” 2009, [[http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Close U.S. Naval Air Station Atsugi</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Japan The USA and Japan agreed to close this base by 2014 because of noise complaints by local residents. Atsugi is located in a crowded urban area near Tokyo with little room between the runway and local homes. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The Navy is looking at options to move its 70 aircraft to another airbase in Japan__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This will be extremely expensive and residents </span>**at potential sites**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> are strongly opposed</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The simple solution is to move those 70 aircraft</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> back to the USA, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__along with their assigned aircraft carrier__</span>**__, the USS George Washington__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A carrier is based in Japan only because the U.S. Navy established bases there after World War II to contain communism. That threat ended, except for the small, weak state of North Korea. Japan has a first class military equal to China’s and doesn’t need American protection. South Korea has become a key trading partner with China. It has twice the population of North Korea and 50 times its economic power. Its mobilized [[http://www.fff.org/comment/com0906h.asp|army is twice as big]] and all its equipment is modern, compared to North Korea’s untrained and ill equipped peasant force. </span>__In the rare chance that war breaks out, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the airbase at Atsugi is a prime target for missile attack</span></span>**, which is another reason local residents want the Americans to leave__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Navy claims an aircraft carrier is needed for regional security, yet it routinely deploys the USS George Washington to the Persian Gulf region for six months. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__There are almost a hundred modern airfields in Japan and Korea where American aircraft can operate in time of war__</span>**__, so **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">an aircraft carrier and the Atsugi airbase are unneeded</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Finally, the old Taiwan-China conflict has mostly disappeared. China never had the naval resources to even consider [[http://www.g2mil.com/Aug2001.htm|invading Taiwan]]. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Downsize U.S. Naval Base Yokosuka</span>, Japan <span style="background: yellow;">The U.S. Navy has 11 aircraft carriers</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: five are homeported at Norfolk, Virginia, three are at San Diego, two in Washington State, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">and one is based near Tokyo for no rational reason. The USS George Washington</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (below) </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__and its escorts <span style="background: yellow;">can easily redeploy</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to a base in the USA, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__leaving behind the 7th Fleet command ship and a couple of destroyers. <span style="background: yellow;">This allows Yokosuka to downsize yet continue to serve as a repair and support facility for deployed Navy vessels</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. An obvious new homeport for the USS Washington battle group is Mayport, Florida. The aircraft carrier based there was decommissioned in 2007, and a dozen frigates based there will soon be scrapped. The Navy plans to move a Norfolk based aircraft carrier there in 2014 to balance the fleet. This has resulted in [[http://hamptonroads.com/2009/01/navy-backs-plan-move-carrier-mayport-florida|a political battle]] between Congressmen since business leaders in Virginia say the move will cost them 11,000 jobs and $600 million in annual spending. Amazingly, no one mentions </span>__the solution is to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">move the aircraft carrier from Japan, where it is</span> costly to maintain</span>**, not wanted by the Japanese, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and <span style="background: yellow;">vulnerable to surprise attack</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Remember Pearl Harbor? Mayport is far more popular with Navy families and is the same distance from the Middle East as a carrier based in Japan. The Navy and Marine Corps have eliminated a dozen squadrons this past decade because of soaring costs, so there is room at existing airbases to accommodate the aircraft from Atsugi.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Scenario B: South China Sea </span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Defending the carrier in the face of the DF-21D cripples U.S. naval strategy – makes freedom of operation impossible </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Dyer ‘10**</span>__ (J.E. Dyer, journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004, “Ding Dong, Dong-Feng!” Hot Air, 8-8-2010, http://hotair.com/archives/2010/08/08/ding-dong-dong-feng/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">Allahpundit </span>[[http://hotair.com/archives/2010/08/06/great-news-chinese-perfecting-game-changing-anti-carrier-missile/|laid down the gauntlet]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> with this question on China’s new anti-carrier weapon, the Dong Feng-21D ballistic missile: Exit question for military (preferably naval) readers: Big trouble here or overblown? Answer from this naval reader: both. Perhaps “overblown” isn’t the right expression, so much as “blown by rogue winds and widely misunderstood.” Allow me to explain. The DF-21D isn’t a weapon we have no defenses against. In fact, the US Navy’s Standard Missile (anti-air missile) program and ballistic missile defense (BMD) upgrade to the Aegis tracking and guidance system are the right defenses to deal with it. Much is frequently made of how fast the DF-21D would be approaching its target in the terminal phase, but the gee-whiz aspect of that is overblown: it’s a ballistic missile. Of course it comes down really fast at the end. That’s what they do. The US has been working on ballistic missile defenses, afloat and ashore, for nearly 30 years now; the speed at which they plummet toward the earth is not a surprise. We have also proven our ability to intercept ballistic missiles coming down at high speeds from extra-atmospheric apogees – although here our success has been slow, and proven mainly in controlled test conditions. Almost all of the just-above-50% success rate has been achieved in the last decade (looking only at the last decade’s testing, the success rate is more like 80%). That said, </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__a ballistic missile coming down at a carrier is a different and faster-moving problem than an anti-ship cruise missile coming at a carrier. Most of the cruise missiles out there (which fly like airplanes) are subsonic, and therefore relatively easy to shoot down__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The supersonic Russian-designed SS-N-22 Sunburn (or MKB Raduga) missile is an exception, and China does have that missile, as a weapon system on Sovremenny-class destroyers purchased from Russia. (I note that cruise missiles aren’t the best weapon to use against a carrier anyway; they’ll be more likely to be used against escort ships and merchants.) </span>__But the geometry of the ballistic missile problem is in a class of its own. That’s **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">what makes the DF-21D a potential game-changer</span>**: the fact that the geometry of the problem, and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the defensive tactics it would require, impose significant operational constraints</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Let me open that discussion with the observation that the fundamental significance of any of this will depend heavily on how effective the DF-21D’s terminal guidance is. Unless China wants to just lob warheads out there to plop harmlessly in the ocean, the DF-21D will have to have a form or forms of effective terminal guidance. Ships are moving targets, and for a ballistic missile, close will mean no cigar. The DF-21D will reportedly have multiple independent reentry vehicles (MIRVs), unquestionably complicating the defensive picture, but the likelihood of any individual hit will be extremely low without hard-to-evade guidance. There’s a good discussion on that [[http://forden.armscontrolwonk.com/archive/2819/df-21-delta-some-early-thoughts|here]]; the hardest guidance to evade is infrared (IR) homing, followed by radar homing. Supposing China can make the DF-21D home on targets to a level 50% as good as “perfect,” and supposing our own missile defenses function better with each passing year, we have a difficult but bounded problem. And </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">the big problem is not that we can’t defend our carriers at all, it’s that defending them would levy so many constraints on our operations</span>__</span>**__. In effect, the DF-21D is a harassment weapon, and a darn good one, if it works as it’s intended to__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Our carriers don’t carry ballistic missile defenses__</span>**__, for starters. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The Aegis ships</span>** – cruisers and destroyers – **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">would have to defend them</span>**. To some extent we already operate that way; a carrier is virtually never without an Aegis escort when it’s deployed forward. But one is generally deemed enough; against enemy attack aircraft or cruise missiles, the carrier’s own defenses are effective and will catch close-in threats that slip through the Aegis net. The carrier can defend itself from air threats with its fighter aircraft and short-range anti-air missiles – but these aren’t defenses against ballistic missiles. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If <span style="background: yellow;">China </span>can launch a barrage of MIRVed DF-21Ds, she <span style="background: yellow;">can bog us down defending the carrier – or</span> simply <span style="background: yellow;">push us further offshore</span></span>**. But **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the further offshore we have to operate, the more vulnerable our carriers’ aircraft</span> are when they are approaching targets on land</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">It’s not just the distance over which China has a shot at them, it’s that plus the fact that they will have to refuel in-air</span>** to get to the target and then back to “Mom” (the carrier). **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The threat of a DF-21D barrage would also be a fouling agent for carrier flight operations. The most vulnerable time of all is when aircraft are being recovered</span>** at the end of a mission cycle. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The Chinese know that</span></span>**. Naturally, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">they will time DF-21D salvos to coincide with recovery ops</span>**. When you’re trying to bring down 16 or 20 jet aircraft safely, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">you can’t keep changing course and speed and turning your electronics on and off</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The carrier has to be a safe recovery platform for her aircraft, otherwise there’s no point</span>** – and that’s the highest-payoff vulnerability for an enemy to go after__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If the DF-21D is mainly a nuisance, these issues can be addressed in the medium term with tactics, while we look for longer-term fixes in technology. But the DF-21D will be only one of the disruptions a naval force faces. It’s probably not going to be a very effective way to literally “kill” a carrier for some years to come. A submarine nailing the carrier at the keel is a much better bet: take out propulsion, you take out the whole weapon system. Without propulsion, the carrier can’t make the 35 knots of wind over the deck that it needs to recover aircraft. And China has lots of submarines. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__It’s the combination of weapons China can increasingly bring to bear that the US Navy is worried about. If we’ve got one big, honking set of tactical constraints imposed by the Chinese submarine threat, another posed by the Chinese attack aircraft threat, and another posed by supersonic anti-ship cruise missiles, <span style="background: yellow;">adding the DF-21D as a</span> flight-ops <span style="background: yellow;">harassment problem makes it that much harder for our forces</span>__</span>** __to keep their heads above water: **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">to use our weapons to actually attack the enemy, rather than just to defend ourselves</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. (And yes, George and Meredith Friedman, authors of [[http://www.amazon.com/Future-War-Technology-Dominance-Twenty-first/dp/0312181000/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1281229013&sr=1-1|The Future of War]], called this prospect for our carriers “senility,” and predicted it in theory, if not because of the particular threat posed by the DF-21D, back in the mid-1990s.)</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Chinese strategists know this – their confidence is driving a new wave of territorial naval aggression in the South China Sea </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Bakshi ‘10**</span>__ (Major General GD Bakshi, SM, VSM, (ret.), Deputy Director of Research, Vivekananda International Foundation, combat veteran awarded the Vishist Seva and Sena Medals, served at the Directorate General of Military Operations, and the Information Warfare and Psychological Operations, currently a strategic analyst contracted to the Indian Army and Integrated Defense staff, former professor at the Indian Military Academy Dehradun and the Defense Services Staff College at Wellington, published 16 books and over 50 papers in many prestigious research journals, Ph.D. candidate, University of Madras, M.A. Defense Science, M.Phil. Strategic Studies, University of Madras, “US-South Korea Joint Exercise Increasing Chinese Naval Assertiveness: Cause for Concern,” 8-10-2010, http://www.vifindia.org/US-SOUTH-KOREA-JOINT-EXERCISE) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__The Vehement Chinese Response: Increasing Naval Assertiveness__ __The PLA Navy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of China </span>__tracked the movement of the USS George Washington__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> via satellite </span>__and the reaction in the Chinese media and military circles was surprising in its virulence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. They trenchantly opposed the US-South Korea exercise covering the Yellow Sea and warned of the dangers of incidents if the US and South Korea went ahead with the exercise .</span>__The Chinese were specifically concerned about the entry of the US Aircraft Carrier George Washington into the Yellow Sea__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Apparently the carrier has the capability to survey the hydro-geological conditions of China’s submarine channels out to the sea. The Chinese therefore termed these exercises as a strategic reconnaissance and testing of initial combat plans. They asserted that such </span>__an exercise in the Yellow Sea would exacerbate mistrust in the region and undermine its security. The Americans__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> were taken aback but </span>__have shifted the location of the current exercise to the Sea of Japan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. American naval officials however are still talking of exercising in the Yellow Sea albeit without the Air craft carrier. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Chinese military analysts have increasingly been writing about a looming Naval confrontation between</span> a hegemonic__</span>** __Naval Power (**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">US</span></span>**) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">and</span> a rising Naval</span>** Power (**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">China</span></span>**)__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This new phase of Chinese Naval assertiveness has been highly intriguing. B. Raman has written about the “Waters of China’s interest or Psychological Territorial Seas”. </span>__Naval analysts are intrigued by the increasing Naval assertiveness of China in the South and East China Seas and in the Yellow Sea and its increasing demand since the beginning of the year for equality of status with the US in the Western Pacific. The Chinese used to project themselves as a rising economic power. Now for the last few months – the “hide your capabilities, bide your time phase” is distinctly over and they are no longer coy about projecting themselves as a rising Naval Power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Carrier Killer: DF-2ID Missile In 1995-96 China was forced to back off when the US dispatched two Carrier battle groups to the Taiwan Straits at the height of the Chinese generated crisis. China had then aggressively fired missiles over Taiwan and staged amphibious assault exercises. The approach of the Carrier Battle Groups forced China to back down. China had thereafter toned down its rhetoric and truculence for over 10 years. However its military and Naval Brass was intensively engaged in finding an answer to the challenge of US Carrier Battle Groups. The response has now come in the form of the DF-2ID Ballistic Missile. This is a mobile land based missile of 1800-2000 miles (approx 3,000 kms) range, specifically designed to engage and destroy the giant nuclear powered carriers. </span>__The DF-2ID has US Naval Strategists clearly worried. The US Navy concedes privately that they have only theoretical counter measures against the DF-2ID because its trajectory and other capabilities are largely unknown. As **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">per US Naval Intelligence sources the DF-2ID is nearing operational capability</span>**. It could rank as the worlds first mobile land based missile **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">capable of hitting a moving aircraft carrier nearly 2000 miles away</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The basic design of the DF-2ID is quite similar to the US Pershing II Missile of the Cold War era. However it is a land based platform. Its payload and the capability of a ballistic Missile to redirect in mid-flight is what especially worries US Strategists. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">What drives the</span>__ </span>**__recent **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">aggressive assertiveness of the Chinese Navy?</span></span>** Is it **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">its confidence that it finally has an answer to the</span> US <span style="background: yellow;">Carrier</span> Battle Groups</span>**?__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The US Navy 7th Fleet Commander, Vice Adm John Bird was clearly concerned when he said, “We have some concerns over the very aggressive weapons the Chinese are processing”. “Individually”, said Paul Giarra (a former Navy Cdr and now a Defense Deptt Analyst) “the technological capabilities are not unprecedented but it is a revolutionary combination of capabilities”. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The missile would be formidable during battle and <span style="background: yellow;">its consequences go beyond</span> any <span style="background: yellow;">hypothetical cataclysmic wars</span>__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The Chinese would use the missile as leverage to</span> try to <span style="background: yellow;">weaken US Security pledges to Taiwan and other Asian allies, establishing vast no-go zones in the</span> West <span style="background: yellow;">Pacific</span></span>**. An active Dong-Feng 21D Missile arsenal could prove to be a significant threat to the massive nuclear powered air craft carriers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This “carrier killer” could usher in a major revolutionary change in Naval warfare which had moved from the era of Battleships to the era of Aircraft carriers in World War II. </span>__The DFs mark a significant paradigm shift that could make the strategy of sending giant Air craft carriers more dangerous because it could give China the option of firing warning shots if the US Ships sail too close for Chinese comfort__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> says Toshi Yoshiwara; Prof of Strategy and Policy at the US Naval War College. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__A small dose of well placed missiles they believe might persuade the enemy to back down__</span>** __or cease and desist. Such escalation **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">could lead to miscalculation</span>**. If fired upon, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the US might perceive what is intended as a warning shot</span>** or demonstration of resolve – **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">as a prelude to all out attack</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Current US Defensive Measures </span>__The current US Missile defense systems are based on the US Aegis class Cruisers/destroyers that form part of an Air Craft Carrier Battle Group. These carry the SM-3 interceptor missiles. However__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Giarra noted that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the interception capability of Aegis equipped ships is not enough to reliably defend against a volley of well placed Anti-ship missiles__</span>**__. The US option therefore would be to rely more upon submarines__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or else keep its surface ships out of missile range. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">This seems to explain the surprising rise in Chinese Naval assertiveness</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. B Raman has rightly pointed out that </span>__China seems to be asserting itself more and more **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">with respect to</span></span>** the kinds of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">territorial claims</span></span>**. They seem to be **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">taking <span style="background: yellow;">a much more aggressive approach to</span> near sea areas recently. This has serious implications for the freedom of navigation on the high seas</span>**. It virtually amounts to the enforcement of maritime exclusion zones__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. What is highly surprising is what precisely has impelled America to back down and hold its Naval Drill in the Sea of Japan, instead of the Yellow Sea. Was it the threat of the DF-21D? A Chinese military analyst wrote lately that “The rise of Chinese Naval Power is unstoppable. Instead of trying to counter it the US should accommodate itself with it by accepting the new reality in the Western Pacific as a result of the rise of the Chinese Navy”. Beijing now has an expanded list of core sensitivities that go far beyond Taiwan and Tibet. The North Korean Response The North Korean response has been equally strident. It had threatened to unleash a sacred war and a nuclear response. North Korea’s National Defense Commission gave an unprecedented warning from a nuclear armed nation. “The Army of the People of North Korea will legitimately counter with their powerful nuclear deterrent the largest ever nuclear – war exercises”. The virulence of the collective Chinese – North Korean response has apparently worried the Americans enough to shift the venue of the exercises from the Yellow Sea to the Sea of Japan. Admiral Mike Mullen’s Concern In his recent visit to India, US Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen clearly articulated his growing concern over China’s recent Naval assertiveness and muscle flexing. Beset with a financial crisis and bogged down with ongoing insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Obama Administration’s first impulse after coming to office, was to seek accommodation with China at the global level and alliance with Pakistan at the regional scale. India was completely marginalized from its world view and pilloried to make peace with Pakistan. Obama’s visit to China however was a significant come down. Chinese assertiveness in the climate change negotiations further convinced the Americans that China only respected strength. They retaliated by providing $ 6 Billion worth of arms to Taiwan. This entrained a negative cycle that is now manifesting in the crisis in East Asia and the increasing Naval muscle flexing by China. The Americans are clearly concerned and Admiral Mullen articulated this concern unambiguously in his visit to India. He stated inter alia “I have moved from being curious about what they are doing to being concerned about what they are doing” He elaborated “I see a fairly significant investment in high end equipment, satellites, ships and Anti- ship missiles and high end aircraft. They are shifting focus from ground forces to a focus on their Navy and Air Force”. He also stated significantly that “China is massing expeditionary maritime and air capabilities which seem oddly out of step with their stated goal of territorial defense”. He was of the view that “Every nation has a right to defend itself and spend as much as it deems fit for that purpose. But a gap as wide as what seems to be forming between China’s stated intent and its military progress, leaves me more than curious about the end result”. In Oct 2009 Gen Xu Caihai, Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission of China had visited the USA. He was taken to several bases stretching from the East Coast to Hawaii. This gave US officials hope that it was the beginning of a normalization period between the two militaries. However in Jun 09, the US sold over $ 6 Bn worth of arms to Taiwan and the whole process ground to a halt. Mullen had then stated “China is a leader in the region – a rising leader. We welcome its considerable strength and potential. The Question is should China and US work together, lead together, to promote regional stability? Mullen had the said “Washington’s answer is and has been an unequivocal yes. Beijing’s answer has been sometimes yes and sometimes no”. Things have apparently changed in 2010. With the Beijing Olympics China threw its coming of age party. The Global financial crisis found America considerably weakened. China sensed its break out opportunity and in 2010 there has been a dramatic turn around from its “Hide your capabilities bide your time” phase. </span>__Its military build up has given new confidence and assertiveness to the PLA the PLAN and the PLAFF. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The DF-2ID seems to have exorcised the threat of American Carrier Battle Groups and introduced a significant game changer in the Naval arena of the Western Pacific</span>** Ocean. China is now flexing its muscles. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China’s recent attempt to virtually enforce maritime exclusion zones in <span style="background: yellow;">the South China Sea</span>, East China Sea and the Yellow Sea <span style="background: yellow;">forms a very disturbing precedent. It has obvious implications for</span> the <span style="background: yellow;">freedom of navigation on the high seas</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This obviously concerns the USA and it equally has implications for India. It is hoped that Mike Mullen’s visit to India will correct the blatantly pro-Pakistan distortions that had crept into the American regional perspective. In a rising and assertive China, both India and the USA face a common threat and challenge. The Democratic administration before long may have to revive the idea of a concert of democracies. The Global Financial Crisis is being seen by the Chinese as a significant game changer that has hastened its coming of age as a global power. The pattern shift in Chinese state behaviour has serious implications for Asia and the World in general and India in particular. Indian National Security experts need to take serious note of these tectonic plate shifts and speed up our inordinately delayed military build up. We can not afford to post pone the completion of our military buildup to 2025. The crisis situations are building up far quicker than anticipated in Asia. We can not afford to be overtaken by events once more. Paradigm Shift in Naval Warfare </span>__The Dong Feng -2ID Ballistic Missile as a Carrier killer could generate a Naval RMA. It could have a huge impact on the way Navies fight__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. India has invested in a major way in acquiring tactical to mid sized air craft Carriers. It must factor in the impact of the DF-2ID threat to its CBGs. India has developed considerable expertise in developing autarky in missiles. The DRDO must rapidly produce such Carrier Killer Ballistic Missiles as also defensive systems against such attacks on our own CBGs. It is ushering in a new era in Naval Warfare and we can not afford to be left behind. The Carrier Killer Ballistic Missile is a significant game changer. It is also cheap and affordable and the earlier we acquire this capability the better it will be for us. We also need to invest in countering this new threat – otherwise our own CBGs will have to be confined to harbours in future Naval Battles. The rate and pace of change is accelerating in our times. We have no option but to keep pace.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This risks multiple scenarios for conflict with Southeast Asian navies, and U.S. intervention </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Dawnay ‘10**</span>__ (Kit Dawnay, independent foreign policy analyst specialising in East Asian international affairs and finance, former Head of Anti-Money Laundering, Counter-Terrorist Financing, and Asia Editor, Aegis Defence Services, Ltd., former Committee Specialist, Foreign Affairs Committee, UK House of Commons, “[[http://www.currentintelligence.net/features/2010/8/5/containing-chinas-ambitions-in-the-south-china-sea.html|Containing China’s Ambitions in the South China Sea]],” Current Intelligence, 8-5-2010, http://www.currentintelligence.net/features/2010/8/5/containing-chinas-ambitions-in-the-south-china-sea.html) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">AT A 23 JULY 2010 MEETING of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum, an ASEAN-plus-three conclave which tackles a range of security issues, US Secretary of State Hilary </span>__Clinton stated that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the South China Sea</span></span>** was “pivotal to regional stability”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. China’s foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, responded by saying that internationalising the issue (an approach long opposed by Beijing) will simply make resolution more difficult. The People’s Liberation Army Navy (</span>__PLAN__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">), China’s military service most concerned with developments in the region, </span>__subsequently underlined China’s new, aggressive stance when it conducted exercises in the Sea in early August 2010__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Clinton's comments follow an increase in bilateral tensions owing to China’s perceived unwillingness to act forcefully to control its errant client state, North Korea, after the sinking of the South Korean corvette, the Cheonan, in March 2010. They also follow China’s own branding of the South China Sea as a “core interest” that same month, thereby setting it, at least in rhetorical terms, alongside other non-negotiable issues such as Xinjiang, Tibet and Taiwan. Relations had been flagging since the Obama Administration’s November 2009 decision to permit the sale of a US$6 billion arms package to Taiwan. Efforts to improve links since then have foundered, suggesting that the differences between the two powers are becoming increasingly structural, and the joint South Korean and US naval exercises in the Yellow Sea in late July 2010 have merely hardened sentiments. Frozen Island Claims </span>__The dispute has two main dimensions. The first is an essentially bilateral dispute between Vietnam and China over possession of the Paracel Islands__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the sea’s northernmost island chain, which is wholly under Chinese military control. </span>__The second is the much more complex dispute over claims to the Spratly Islands by a number of littoral states including Brunei, China, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Vietnam. Various islands in the chain are under the control of the disputants’ armed forces, with China, the Philippines, and Vietnam all maintaining permanent structures on certain islets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The legal bases of these claims are, for the most part, quite weak. Chinese and Vietnamese claims to the Paracels stem from historical use. Hanoi’s argument is that the French government administered both archipelagoes during the colonial period, and that their inclusion in maps of Vietnam dates back to the 18th century. In turn, China’s counterarguments for possession of the Paracels are based on historical use, maritime law, and geographical proximity. For the Spatlys, Vietnam and China claim historical use, akin to their claims to the Paracels. Malaysia and Brunei rest their claims on their reading of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and the Philippines’ claims stem both from UNCLOS and geographical proximity. Efforts to resolve the crisis have done little more than freeze it. The departure of Soviet maritime forces after 1989 from the Cam Ranh naval base in Vietnam facilitated talks on the issue, which led in 1992 to the Manila Declaration on the South China Sea. This was followed in 1995 with a bilateral agreement between the Philippines and China on a Code of Conduct for oil exploration in the South China Sea. The latter agreement did not prevent Beijing from taking control of an atoll called Mischief Reef inside the Philippines Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in 1996. ASEAN nonetheless took the agreement as a model for a future, regional Code of Conduct. Subsequent talks led to a 2002 Declaration on a Code of Conduct for the South China Sea, which is the prevailing international legal instrument on the issue. It is, however, nonbinding and essentially amounts to little more than a statement that all parties will comply with the relevant international legal principles, including the UNCLOS, the ASEAN Treaty of Amity and Cooperation (to which China became a signatory in 2003 and which prohibits the use of force in the region). The improved political climate since 2002 yielded few dividends. A 2005 Joint Maritime Seismic Undertaking (JMSU) between China, the Philippines, and Vietnam was tainted by two issues: accusations in the parliament in Manila that the Macapagal administration agreed to the JMSU in exchange for bribes from China; and suggestions from Filipino parliamentarians as well as from Hanoi that China was using the initiative to gain strategic information. Efforts to tackle the issue started to wane; the JSMU lapsed in 2008, in response to growing tensions most closely linked to China’s 2007 announcement that it had incorporated the administration of the South China Sea into Sansha County in Hainan province. Beijing returned to its default position that any discussions on this issue must take place on a bilateral and not multilateral basis. </span>__A Growing Risk Of Conflict There are compelling economic-strategic considerations behind the dispute. The islands straddle one of the world’s busiest waterways: **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">over 60% of the world’s</span> maritime <span style="background: yellow;">trade passes through</span></span>** it, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">including 80% of Chinese oil</span> imports</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The </span>**South China**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Sea is also one of the world’s richest fisheries</span>**, accounting for about 10% of the global fish catch, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">and it is thought to contain significant resources of oil and gas</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Strategic arguments focused on military defence and force projection are perhaps the most compelling. </span>__From **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">China’s</span></span>** perspective, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">control</span></span>** of the South China Sea **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">would allow it to exert pressure on the Japanese and Taiwanese economies</span></span>**, which rely on supplies transported via regional sea lanes, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">and keep the Indian Navy bottled up in the Indian Ocean</span></span>**, thereby neutralizing a regional threat to China’s littoral. It would also extend the reach of its naval assets into the Straits of Malacca – well beyond the ranges dictated by current maritime jurisdictions and force projection capabilities. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">It is precisely this</span> sort of regional <span style="background: yellow;">ascendancy the other littoral states wish to prevent</span></span>**.**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">The risk of conflict is real and growing</span></span>**. Fishermen from all disputants are routinely arrested and even shot__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Vietnam and China have a history of animosity owing to Vietnam’s depiction of China as its ancestral enemy, as well as more recent tensions related to Hanoi’s invasion of Cambodia in 1978 and China’s response to it, a punitive war against Vietnam in 1979. The South China Sea issue remains a key source of acrimony between the two states despite improved relations in recent years. </span>__Vietnam has started to increase its naval capacity, buying new corvettes and frigates, most notably__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in December 2009 </span>__when Hanoi bought six diesel/electric Kilo class submarines from Russia. The move by Hanoi followed similar acquisitions by Malaysia, which is another disputant, and Singapore__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which is not. </span>__Notwithstanding its overt naval superiority over the other disputants, China is thus increasingly alive to the threat these submarines present to its sea lanes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. US Intervention </span>__Washington__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> had hitherto sought to stabilise conditions in the South China Sea, but appeared to depart from this stance when it </span>__recently increased its naval presence in order to ensure freedom of navigation. In turn, increased US activity angered China, and in early 2009 a standoff involving water cannon took place between the USS Impeccable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a submarine hunting vessel, </span>__and five Chinese flagged ships. A similar if less publicised event took place again in March 2010__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Vietnam has actively sought US support in any stand-off with China, and </span>__Clinton’s comments__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which </span>__amount to an overt declaration that the US has a right to intervene in the issue__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, seem a partial validation of Hanoi’s strategy. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">China’s increased aggression</span>__</span>**__, then, appears to have **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">provoked the US into pursuing a strategy of South China Sea containment</span></span>** or even roll-back. The US has a range of incentives to do so. First, it has a strategic role to play **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">as a security guarantor to</span> smaller regional <span style="background: yellow;">powers</span></span>**, such as Malaysia and Vietnam, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">which fear Chinese expansion</span></span>** in the region – thereby preserving the US-led ‘hub and spoke’ system of bilateral security accords in the Asia-Pacific. Second, the US Navy has an operational interest in maintaining situational awareness of China’s growing submarine capacity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – especially since the expansion of the Sanya base on the island province of Hainan into a platform for China’s ballistic missile armed submarines. Washington has hitherto been careful not to label its efforts “containment”, proclaiming instead its determination to cooperate with China in part because of its need to engage with China on a range of issues, including its US debt holdings. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">China</span>__</span>**__, naturally enough, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">resents US intrusion</span> in what it sees as its immediate neighbourhood</span>**. In this context, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">what had seemed <span style="background: yellow;">a local flashpoint is increasingly acquiring an international dimension</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, resembling, the even more intractable and flammable Korean peninsula. More broadly US policy appears to be shifting towards an unspoken strategy of containment, if developments in the South China Sea and the Korean peninsula can be taken as accurate indicators. </span>__Accordingly, the US relationship with Vietnam and other South East Asian states may in time become bellwethers for the state of bilateral relations between Beijing and Washington, since containment in the South China Sea starts in Hanoi and Kuala Lumpur. In the interim, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the risk of</span>** friction and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">conflict in the region is growing</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Culminates in nuclear war </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Straits Times ‘95**</span>__ (“Choose Your Own Style of Democracy,” 5-21-95, l/n) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In__</span>** the first -**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the worst possible scenario__</span>** -**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Asian countries would go to war against each other</span>__</span>**, he said. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__It might start with clashes between Asian countries <span style="background: yellow;">over the Spratly Islands because of China's insistence that the South China Sea belonged to it</span>__</span>** __along with all the islands, reefs and seabed minerals__. In this scenario, __the U__nited __S__tates __would offer to help and would be welcomed by Asean__, he said. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The Pacific Fleet begins to patrol</span> the South China Sea__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Clashes occur between the Chinese</span> navy <span style="background: yellow;">and the US</span> Navy</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China declares war on the US <span style="background: yellow;">and a full-scale war breaks out with both sides resorting to nuclear weapons</span></span>**__. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Deploying carriers plays into the Chinese strategy – only a shift to smaller, dispersed platforms can succeed </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Burleson ‘10**</span>__ (Mike D. Burleson, military writer, articles have been published in The American Thinker, The Washington Post, Sea Classics Magazine, and Strategypage.com, author of //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">New Wars: The Transformation of Armies, Navies, and Airpower in the Digital Age</span>//, “Carrier Alternative Weekly,” 4-8-2010, http://newwars.wordpress.com/2010/04/08/carrier-alternative-weekly-18/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">China’s Carrier Trap You’ve likely heard of the carrier-killing ballistic missile we feared is being deployed by China, specifically targeting the USN’s most valuable warships. </span>[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/03/china-testing-ballistic-missile-carrier-killer/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+WiredDangerRoom+%28Blog+-+Danger+Room%29&utm_content=Google+Reader|Dr. Andrew Erickson ]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;">of the Naval War College, writing in Wired’s Danger Room blog tells us of official confirmation: Last week, </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__Adm. Robert Willard, the head of U.S. Pacific Command (PACOM), made an alarming but little-noticed disclosure. China, he told legislators, was “developing and testing a conventional anti-ship ballistic missile based on the DF-21__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">/CSS-5 [medium-range ballistic missile] </span>__designed specifically to target aircraft carriers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” What, exactly, does this mean? Evidence suggests that China has been developing an anti-ship ballistic missile, or ASBM, since the 1990s. But </span>__this is the first [[http://armedservices.house.gov/pdfs/FC032510/Willard_Testimony032510.pdf|__official confirmation that it has advanced__]]__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (.pdf) </span>__to the stage of actual testing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Now </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">some would want us to send more of our highly visible flattops to the region, playing into the PLAN’s anti-access strategy</span>__</span>**__. With ongoing buildup of the naval base at Guam it seems the admirals agree with this strategy, which sounds much like moving Pearl Harbor 1941 a few thousand miles closer to Japan. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">A better idea would be to build a larger fleet of less noticeable vessels</span></span>**, submarines and small ships, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">which can disperse and reform when needed</span>. Our own version of the swarm</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. ***** What? Me Worry? Craig Hooper refuses to swoon over the Chinese ballistic missile threat to the flattop. Here he writes in the recent [[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/story.asp?STORY_ID=2313|Proceedings mag]]: In May 2009, urgently worded accounts of contemporary Chinese antiship ballistic-missile (ASBM) developments exploded onto a number of mainstream U.S. media outlets, sparking a domestic uproar. But by unintentionally validating China’s as-yet-unproven ASBM capabilities, these well-intended warnings did America’s strategic position in the Pacific Basin few favors… America must stop casting itself as the primary target of a Chinese ASBM. Even if the antiship version of China’s medium-range DF-21 ballistic missile materializes and proves to be fully operational, accompanied by reliable, well-integrated targeting, guidance, and command systems, there are too few conventional antiship DF-21D variants available to pose an immediate hazard to U.S. carriers. Government estimates suggest the inventory of nuclear- and conventionally-armed DF-21/CSS-5 missiles is still manageable, expanding from 19 to 23 in 2004 to a moderate-sized fleet of 60 to 80 missiles. It is, today, hardly an inventory sufficient to defeat a well-defended U.S. carrier battle group. Let me also say, that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__even if the ASBM capability proves a failure, this is yet another threat to the carrier’s dominance of the sealanes__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> since World War 2. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__And as the threats grow numerous, it seems our answer has been to build fewer and ever larger flattops to compensate__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. I personally suspect the death-watch on the carrier began in 1954, and the launch of the first nuclear powered submarine. Since then there has been a gradual [[http://newwars.wordpress.com/2009/06/29/sub-hunters-take-a-dive-pt-1/|dismantling of our ASW capabilities]], hastened by the fall of the Soviet Union. If that wasn’t bad enough, starting in the 1960s, they began adding stand-off ship killing cruise missiles to these super-stealthy and fast as a destroyer platforms, making an already amazing weapon even more lethal. Yet </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the ultimate threat to the aircraft carrier is__</span>** __not a military one, but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">its own [[http://defensetech.org/2010/04/05/carrier-construction-costs-jump-15-percent/#axzz0kEsUylXn|__bloated pricetag__ ]]</span>**and the costs and complication of its specialized naval aircraft. This is a concurrent problem for all navies seeking to deploy last century naval airpower in the age of the guided missile and UAV__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. ***** The F-35B is really cool say Marines The concern was the new V/STOL version of the Joint Strike Fighter, the F-35B, would melt the carrier deck it would launch from. Colin Clark reports from [[http://www.dodbuzz.com/2010/03/26/jsf-not-too-hot-for-carriers/#axzz0jvpGgNCQ|DoD Buzz]]: The STOVL version of the Joint Strike Fighter is not too hot and is not too loud, Marine Commandant Gen. James Conway told DoD Buzz during an editorial board session. The most troubling operational challenge that appeared to face the F-35B, next to weight, was reports that it would not be suitable for a carrier or other ship because its exhaust would melt the flight deck. Not so, Conway told reporters from Military</span></span>​<span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.com. The plane, at 1,500 degrees, is just 18 degrees hotter than a Harrier, he said Thursday. I hope he’s right, as the current Harrier vertol is getting long in the tooth. But the need for vertical airpower seems as dire as ever. ***** The “E” doesn’t stand for “Easy” The ongoing saga to beat the dead horse and get a little more life out of the ancient USS Enterprise hit another pothole, says Peter Frost at the [[http://www.dailypress.com/news/dp-local_enterprise_0401apr01,0,3256214.story|Daily Press]]: The “Big E” is becoming the [[http://www.dailypress.com/topic/unrest-conflicts-war/defense/u.s.-navy-ORGOV0000126141144.topic|U.S. Navy]]‘s “Big $.” The Navy this week agreed to spend an additional $13.2 million for maintenance on the USS Enterprise, pushing the cost to repair the fleet’s oldest aircraft carrier to nearly $655 million — 44.5 percent higher than the original estimate. It’s the 11th time in 21 months the service has had to throw more money at the 49-year-old carrier to prepare it for two final deployments before a scheduled 2012 decommissioning. Why does this story remind of the Indian Navy’s own attempts at keeping the equally ancient [[http://rupeenews.com/2009/11/12/indian-rust-bucket-aircraft-carrier-viraat-without-planes-maritime-mig-29ks-without-carrier-gorshkov/|Hermes/Viraat ]]viable for a few more years? ***** Scraping to Keep the Fleet Fit Speaking of aging platforms, the Navy is trying desperately to avoid a “fighter gap” by keeping war-weary Hornets in the skies as long as possible. Reporting at [[http://jacksonville.com/news/metro/2010-03-29/story/secondhand-flight-old-planes-revamped-navy-makes-do|Jacksonville.com]], here is Timothy Gibbons: The original F/A-18s, known as Hornets, are mainly at or beyond their expected life span, and even the newer Super Hornets are running into trouble with metal fatigue. Meanwhile, the F-35, the plane that’s expected to replace the older Hornets, is getting more expensive and taking longer than planned to come online. That has led the Navy to consider asking Boeing to start building Super Hornets again. Dealing with the reality of an aging fleet — a situation recently thrown into sharp relief by the Navy’s need to ground 104 jets to check for cracks in their fuselage — has fallen on the shoulders of Fleet Readiness Center Southeast. Now, workers there are delving deeper into the guts of the aircraft than the manufacturers ever expected, leading artisans to ramp up production on products they must craft from scratch. “We’re looking at areas no one ever intended us to be looking at,” said F/A-18 division director Major Nimock. They’re doing a great job, but seems to be only delaying the inevitable. Unless we can replace platforms on time, ordering new ones as needed, we could realistically see further shrinkages in the carrier airwing. ***** That Was #4 on the List of Alternatives Andrew Oh-Wilekke, the [[http://washparkprophet.blogspot.com/2010/04/rethinking-scope-of-us-navy.html|Washington Park Prophet]], sees land-based USAF planes as an alternative to aircraft carriers in the Gulf: There is a very good chance that the U.S. could now secure a permanent Air Force base in the region similar to those in Aviano, Italy or Okinawa, Japan, and will have something like 50,000 U.S. troops in Iraq for the foreseeable future in any case. In the past, this might have been seen as a threat to Iraq or other Arab states. Now, it would be seen merely as a precaution against Iranian military action that would disrupt the oil trade in the Persian Gulf. It wouldn’t take a very large Air Force base to have superior capabilities to an aircraft carrier, and this kind of base could also be home to the Navy’s land based P-8 anti-submarine warfare aircraft. Some smaller U.S. Navy ships might still remain in the Persian Gulf, but freed of force protection for an aircraft carrier as a primary mission, far fewer navy surface ships would be required. I agree with that in part. Naturally </span>__if you had land based airpower on call, there would be little reason to deploy high end battleforce vessels like carriers and Aegis warships. However you would still need smaller vessels like corvettes and patrol ships which can do boarding, search-and-seizures, and at-sea rescues. So, with force multipliers like land-based air, you can actually build a larger, though lower cost fleet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">If the Navy could grasp</span> ahold of <span style="background: yellow;">this concept, a few superships and many low tech vessels, much of their current presence deficits</span>, overdue-deployed crews, the amazing shrinking fleet <span style="background: yellow;">would be turned around</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Decommissioning a carrier shifts procurement towards smaller surface combatants </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Scarborough ‘10**</span>__ (Rowan Scarborough, staff writer for the Washington Times, quoting Robert Gates, current Secretary of Defense, and Norman Polmar, former consultant to several senior officials in the Navy and Department of Defense, and advisor to three Secretaries of the Navy and two Chiefs of Naval Operations, “Pentagon to cut out big-war funds,” The Washington Times, 8-3-2010, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/3/pentagon-to-cut-out-big-war-funds/print/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The </span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|__Pentagon__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;"> has begun</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __a new hunt for cost savings that likely will lead to <span style="background: yellow;">scaling back big-war weapons</span> systems <span style="background: yellow;">in favor of funding smaller conflicts</span>__</span>** __typified by__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/iraq/|__Iraq__]]</span>____and__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/afghanistan/|__Afghanistan__]]</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Defense Secretary [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Robert M. Gates]] is selling the green-eyeshade exercise as a way to achieve more efficiencies by streamlining acquisition, cutting personnel and perhaps eliminating some organizations altogether. But </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__defense industry sources say the Gates team also is looking to kill or shelve weapons systems__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — a move that worries pro-defense conservatives who say it sends the wrong message to [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/china/|China]], [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/russia/|Russia]], [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/north-korea/|North Korea]] and other potential adversaries. </span>__Among the programs that might be subject to the budget ax are the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine and one or two of the__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>____'s 11 active carrier strike groups. It would be the second time__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|__Mr. Gates__]]</span>____applied the scalpel to big-war weapons, though his first effort was far more extensive__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In 2009, he ended production of the F-22 Raptor stealth fighter, scaled back missile defense, retired scores of warplanes and put on hold the planning on a long-range nuclear bomber — systems associated with a clash of titans, not counterinsurgency. "We want to look ahead to the years ahead and make sure that we're not creating something or imaging something or embarking on something that we're not going to be able to pay for," [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ash-carter/|Ash Carter]], the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|Pentagon]]'s top acquisition officer, told reporters. "If we want to continue to invest in war-fighter capabilities, we're going to have to do that by finding efficiencies and being leaner." </span>__At a time when the__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/congressional-budget-office/|__Congressional Budget Office__]]</span>____is warning that the mounting__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|__U.S.__]]</span>____debt is not sustainable,__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|__Mr. Gates__]]</span>____has given his team the daunting task of finding $100 billion in savings over five years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, starting in fiscal 2012, the budget that goes to [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/congress/|Congress]] next winter. The aim is to keep overall defense spending of about $700 billion at a 1 percent, after-inflation, increase annually. "What he's moving on to now is getting efficiencies out of the system by cutting overhead costs," said [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/loren-thompson/|Loren Thompson]], who runs the pro-business [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/lexington-institute/|Lexington Institute]]. "They're going to achieve that by seeking greater productivity from contractors, by reducing unnecessary rules and regulations, and by tightening contract terms. My guess is that at the same time they are doing that they will cut additional weapons systems." [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/loren-thompson/|Mr. Thompson]] said that on the day he spoke with [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/the-washington-times/|The Washington Times]] that [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|Pentagon]] officials were meeting over the fate of the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-marine-corps/|Marine Corps]]' $13 billion Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle. The [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/marine-corps/|Corps]] has said the system is critical for Marines in future wars. But [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Mr. Gates]] has suggested that the vehicle is expendable in a war-fighting era when full amphibious assaults are unlikely. "I think [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Gates]]' efforts to cut spending are necessary," said [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/loren-thompson/|Mr. Thompson]]. "I can quibble about how they're doing it. But we've got a government that's spending $4 billion a day it doesn't have. The [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|Pentagon]] just wastes a huge amount of money." As [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Mr. Gates]] was planning to shift money from big future wars to current smaller ones, some conservatives noted an inconsistency last month. When the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/presidency-of-barack-obama/|Obama administration]] wanted to project power directly at [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/north-korea/|North Korea]]'s doorstep, it dispatched F-22s and an aircraft carrier strike group — the very systems the defense secretary has singled out for cuts. "[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Gates]] is doing what previous Democratic administrations have done repeatedly, and that is to hollow out our military," said [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/frank-gaffney/|Frank Gaffney]], a defense official in the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/reagan-administration/|Reagan administration]] who directs the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/center-for-security-policy/|Center for Security Policy]]. "The problem with such cuts in the forces we need to wage those much more difficult and more violent kinds of conflicts is that we put ourselves in a position where we may not be able to deter them as well as fight them," he said. "That's a terrible mistake and may cost us dearly." In speeches last spring, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|Mr. Gates]] put the services on notice that more weapons cuts were coming. He disputed [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|Navy]] proponents who say the sea service lacks fighters and ships for adequate global deployment and to keep in check countries such as Iran and [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/china/|China]]. "</span>__Does the number of warships we have and are building really put America at risk when the__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|__U.S.__]]</span>____battle fleet is larger than the next 13 navies combined, 11 of which belong to allies and partners?"__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|__Mr. **Gates**__]]</span>__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__said__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "Is it a dire threat that by 2020 the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]] will have only 20 times more advanced stealth fighters than [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/china/|China]]?" Days later at the Navy League, he said: "</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Our current plan is to have 11 carrier strike groups</span>__</span>** __through 2040 and it's in the budget. And to be sure, the need to project power across the oceans will never go away. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">But</span> consider the massive overmatch the </span>**__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|__U.S.__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __already enjoys__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Consider, too, the growing anti-ship capabilities of adversaries</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Do we really need 11</span> carrier strike groups</span>** for another 30 years **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">when no other country has more than one? Any future plans must address these realities</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." The [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|Navy]] says it does need 11, and so do many conservatives. "Carrier battle groups remain the backbone of our power projection capabilities at sea," said [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/frank-gaffney/|Mr. Gaffney]]. "The threats to those carrier battle groups are growing. There is no doubt about that. We need to do a vastly better job of protecting those vital elements of our fleet and indeed of our national capabilities. But I think it would be the height of folly to reduce or otherwise take actions that would disable us from having the sorts of force projection capabilities that they uniquely represent." </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|__Mr. Gates__]]</span>____is being pressed from another front. Last week, a bipartisan panel of defense analysts called for a bigger__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>____, not a smaller one, by increasing the fleet from 282 ships to 346__. "__The__ <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]]</span> __must be fully present in the Asia-Pacific region to protect American lives and territory, ensure the free flow of commerce, maintain stability and defend our allies in the region. A robust__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|__U.S.__]]</span>____force structure, one that is largely rooted in maritime strategy and includes other necessary capabilities, will be essential__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," said the panel, headed by former Defense Secretary William J. Perry, a Democrat, and former White House National Security Adviser Stephen J. Hadley, a Republican. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/norman-polmar/|__Norman Polmar__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__, a recognized authority on the__ </span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> who is writing his 50th military book, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__said there are <span style="background: yellow;">new strike</span> and spy <span style="background: yellow;">platforms</span> today that could <span style="background: yellow;">allow for one or two fewer carriers</span>__</span>**__. The__ __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>____, for example, will operate with only 10 while it retires one carrier and awaits the launching of a new one__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the USS Gerald R. Ford. "</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The </span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">will make do</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/norman-polmar/|Mr. Polmar]] said. "</span>__Will it mean longer deployments? Yes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Hopefully </span>__it will also mean**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> the </span>**__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__'s <span style="background: yellow;">leadership</span> and [Defense Department] <span style="background: yellow;">will re-evaluate how we use carriers</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." </span>__What has happened, he said, is a revolution in smart weapons to the point where **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">surface ships and submarines can deliver cruise missiles</span> on target <span style="background: yellow;">instead</span> of strike aircraft from a carrier offshore</span>**. For reconnaissance, there are satellites and unmanned vehicles instead of planes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "Today, you want to hit somebody and you send a destroyer or submarine and you shoot 20 or 30 or 50 Tomahawk missiles," he said. "</span>__We've got different capabilities in other ships that can do__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, to some degree, not completely, </span>__what a carrier does__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/norman-polmar/|Mr. Polmar]] said that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">if</span>__</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-m-gates/|__Mr. Gates__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;"> settles on nine</span>__</span>** __instead of 11**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">carriers, the </span></span>**__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;"> would need to increase the number of cruisers and destroyers to replace the firepower</span>__</span>**__. He estimates that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the </span></span>**__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/navy/|__Navy__]]</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;"> would save</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __$<span style="background: yellow;">1 billion annually in operating costs for each 6,000-sailor carrier it eliminated</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This shift uniquely enables freedom of operation due to survivability, numbers, and relative expendability </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Burleson ‘10**</span>__ (Mike D. Burleson, military writer, articles have been published in The American Thinker, The Washington Post, Sea Classics Magazine, and Strategypage.com, author of New Wars: The Transformation of Armies, Navies, and Airpower in the Digital Age, “Carriers: The Weakest Link Pt 2,” 8-12-2010, http://newwars.wordpress.com/2010/08/12/carriers-the-weakest-link-pt-2/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The idea of massed airwings of the type carried by </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the__</span>** __typical Nimitz class **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">supercarrier is</span>** actually **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">making us weaker with the appearance of great strength</span>**. When this becomes your only answer for world problems, it greatly limits your capability and effect__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For instance, </span>__a show of force with a carrier strike group against a Third World nation appears almost farcical, because of the great difference in strength between the two powers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A rogue dictator knows the US must either deploy this force at its full strength or not at all, and given the world attitude against war on weaker nations, the defiant potentate knows he is mostly secure. The dramatic takedown of a Saddam Hussein or Manuel Noriega is such a rare occurrence as to be unlikely, the dictator feels secure enough when the carrier withdraws for other duties, he quietly breathes a sigh of relief, and publicly claims a great victory of standing down the American colossus. The old David versus Goliath scenario, which is very effective for propaganda purposes. The huge size of a supercarrier, with so much national treasure packed inside, plus the very exquisite planes and warships required to defend it, means for a massive and unnecessary drain on America’s resources. More expensive ships and their long building times means American shipyards spend an excessive amount of time on fewer warships. Fewer ships built means less work, which is the primary cause of the demise of the US shipbuilding industry. Our apparent great strength then has a ripple effect across the entire Navy, ensuring it remains small, less flexible, and with fewer shipbuilding resources in case of war. This makes us less prepared for the future, not more. It is also a very wasteful way to deploy power at sea. </span>__The admirals use the argument that larger carriers are better because they carry more firepower than so-called less capable small carriers, but this dated idea bears scrutiny__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in </span>__considering advances in technology__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The 1980 airwing of the USS Nimitz was far less capable than the 2000 airwing, the addition of precision guided munitions making a dramatic difference. </span>__Packing all this incredible technology in a few large packages, keeping it concentrated rather than dispersed where it is needed makes it less effective. We are weak even with the appearance of great strength. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">If</span></span>**, however, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">you spread</span> the new <span style="background: yellow;">capability out, in smaller carriers, or</span> with <span style="background: yellow;">missile ships</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, or land based planes, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">you could do more missions</span>__</span>** __with the seemingly “less capable” airwings__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. You wouldn’t be bound by the 10 or 11 platforms you can afford, a handful of this forward deployed at any given time, requiring equally pricey escort warships, and 5000+ crew to operate. With small carriers, this should satisfy the fear that we need carriers to support land troops ashore. Besides, these days Marines and Army soldiers carry much of their own aerial power in the form of V/STOL planes, the aforementioned UAVs, and even loading [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/blogs/defense/index.jsp?plckController=Blog&plckScript=blogscript&plckElementId=blogDest&plckBlogPage=BlogViewPost&plckPostId=Blog%3A27ec4a53-dcc8-42d0-bd3a-01329aef79a7Post%3A977fa845-1573-4d8d-9db4-e11d09b155f8|drones in backpacks ]]as part of their kit. </span>__Mindful also that carriers should never operate **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">in range of missiles</span>, suicide boats, mines, or stealthy midget subs</span>**, against which**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> we don’t need to risk our largest, most expensive warships</span>** anyway__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Recall that [[http://newwars.wordpress.com/2009/05/18/aircraft-carriers-vs-the-red-army-pt-1/|supporting the land battle ]]is secondary to the Navy’s primary role of sea control. Do we want to gear all of our precious resources toward a secondary naval mission, or will the fleet get serious about sea control, instead of continuing to trust in nuclear shield, that no one will shoot at our carriers? The admirals will tout the amazing flexibility of their multi-billion dollar superships. On land, our warfighters are thinking of how many missions they can get out of individual aircraft, and UAVs are very able as well given their long-loitering persistence. </span>__In the very near future one or two **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">drones will do the missions we now launch giant fleets and their tens of thousands of crew to perform</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Not just fantasy, its very nearly here. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Because this new capability is so effective, less is more</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, but hulls are the life of any fleet. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Get more hulls and you can project this new power in many places__</span>**__. Power concentrated is power wasted. You also must **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">consider that the loss of a single</span>** such **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">immense</span>** fighting **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ship</span>**, carrying so much of your total strength, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">you also lose a great amount of your firepower</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. During the world wars, carriers suffered grievous attrition in the Atlantic and Pacific theaters. Recall Admiral Cunningham in the Mediterranean Theater, often down to a single carrier, many times with none. Compare this to the old battleship navy which depended greatly on numbers, with Nelson at Trafalgar forced to fight with one ship, or Jellicoe at Jutland so lacking! ***** </span>__Another cause for the carrier’s being the weak link in the fighting fleet, is their large size and vulnerability. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Even the Navy now admits their biggest ships are at risk from</span>** a relatively simple off the shelf weapon__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, howbeit with advanced new guidance systems. Earlier this year comes the following testimony before the House Armed Services Committee by [[http://armedservices.house.gov/pdfs/FC032510/Willard_Testimony032510.pdf|Admiral Robert F. Willard, Commander]], U.S. Pacific Command (PACOM): </span>__China is also developing and testing a conventional anti-ship ballistic missile based on **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the DF-21</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">/CSS-5 MRBM </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__designed specifically to target aircraft carriers__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Having grave implications, according to [[http://www.andrewerickson.com/2010/08/china-testing-anti-ship-ballistic-missile-asbm/|Andrew S. Erickson]], at Associate Professor at the Naval War College: What does this mean for the U.S.? If developed and deployed successfully, a Chinese ASBM system of systems would be the world’s first capable of targeting a moving carrier strike group from long-range, land-based mobile launchers. This could make defenses against it difficult and/or highly escalatory. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__While the <span style="background: yellow;">Navy</span> is taking <span style="background: yellow;">steps to combat the Chinese carrier killing missiles</span>, this <span style="background: yellow;">will entail the concentration of even more force</span> to guard the highly visible platforms__</span>**__, putting at risk the same vessels which potentially do the same mission. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">By keeping the missile escorts tied to the at-risk and redundant carriers, we are placing these valuable assets at risk as well</span></span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Also</span>**, by keeping the new battleships bound with the now obsolete carriers, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">we lose the flexibility of the long-range and easily dispersed Tomahawks to ensure the fleet’s survivability</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Remember that in 1941 the faster and longer-ranged naval airpower (200+miles) were still tied to the slow moving and short-ranged guns (20+ miles) of the battlefleet in the US Navy, and you can see the discrepancy today. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__We have all the fighting power we need with lower cost <span style="background: yellow;">missile ships, submarines and light carriers</span>, which <span style="background: yellow;">should be dispersed in roles where we now use only supercarriers</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. These should be supported in their mission by smaller Influence Squadrons consisting of motherships, corvettes, OPVs, attack craft, which are </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">less vulnerable in shallow waters</span>__</span>**__, especially geared for this role as they are, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">and affordable enough to build in large numbers</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For the Navy, they would be the “lighter footprint”, a tactic which the ground troops have used to great success in our wars and peacekeeping operations ashore.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Scenario C: Taiwan </span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The plan frees up money to accelerate submarine production </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Hoffman ‘9**</span>__ (F.G. Hoffman, national security affairs analyst and Research Fellow at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies, assigned to the Center for Emerging Threats and Opportunities at the Marine Corps Combat Development Command, former Marine Corps officer, “Towards a Balanced and Sustainable Defense,” Orbis, 53(3), Summer 2009, Wilson OmniFile) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">6. Reframe the Navy's Shipbuilding Priorities. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The Navy's__</span>** __30-year **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ship construction plan is wildly ambitious, requiring nearly $10 billion a year more than is projected for naval acquisition</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.(FN41) The Congressional Budget Office estimates that executing the Navy plan will cost $25 billion a year (FY09 dollars), far more than is projected by OSD and Congressional budgeters or budgeters.(FN42) </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Reductions in the Navy's</span>__</span>** __programmed **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">carrier fleet</span> should be implemented, reducing them</span>** from 11 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">to 9 carriers</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.(FN43) The CVN 21 Ford-class carrier, a 100,000-plus ton nuclear-powered aircraft carrier designed to replace the Nimitz-class series is a necessary program. But </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__at an estimated cost of $11.2 billion each, we are putting too many eggs into one basket__</span>** __in our naval acquisition program__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.(FN44) Furthermore, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__cuts__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in Army and naval prepositioning programs, especially the acquisition of redundant equipment sets, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">can save resources for priority submarine production</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and land force modernization accounts.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This is critical to balance a rapid buildup in Chinese submarine strength and improve ASW capability in the Pacific </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Eaglen and Rodeback ‘10**</span>__ (</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/E/Mackenzie-Eaglen|Mackenzie Eaglen]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation; </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/R/Jon-Rodeback|Jon Rodeback]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">, Research Editor at The Heritage Foundation; “Submarine Arms Race in the Pacific: The Chinese Challenge to U.S. Undersea Supremacy,” The Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder #2367, 2-2-2010, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">Submarine fleets and deployments have changed dramatically since the end of the Cold War.</span>[[#_ftnref10]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn10|[10]]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> During the 1990s, Russia withdrew most its submarines from service, and the U.S. steadily drew down its submarine force. </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__While the number of U.S. submarines continues to decline, China is rapidly expanding and upgrading its submarine fleet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In response to a shifting military balance, other countries in the Pacific are also expanding and modernizing their fleets. United States. The U.S. force of attack submarines fell from 102 boats in 1987 to 53 in 2009.[[#_ftnref11]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn11|[11]]] The decline has followed repeated revisions of the Navy's force structure plans since the Reagan-era 600-ship Navy called for 100 SSNs. The 1991 plan of George H. W. Bush called for 80, the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) force-level study of 1992 reduced the goal to 55, and the 1997 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) lowered the bar further to 50 SSNs.[[#_ftnref12]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn12|[12]]] The 2001 QDR reinstated the goal of maintaining 55 SSNs.[[#_ftnref13]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn13|[13]]] The 2006 QDR stated the goals of increasing production to two submarines per year by 2012 and deploying 60 percent of the U.S. submarine fleet to the Pacific to protect U.S. interests in that region.[[#_ftnref14]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn14|[14]]] The Navy's current proposal for a 313-ship fleet includes 48 SSNs, although some informed observers have questioned whether this number is sufficient to meet U.S. needs.[[#_ftnref15]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn15|[15]]] The 1999 JCS Submarine Force Structure Study concluded that the optimal number of attack submarines to serve all of the military's and intelligence community's operational and collection requirements would be 68 SSNs in 2015 and 76 in 2025. A force of 55 SSNs in 2015 and 62 in 2025 was deemed a moderate security risk.[[#_ftnref16]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn16|[16]]] However, the current fleet of 53 nuclear-powered attack submarines[[#_ftnref17]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn17|[17]]] is smaller than even the moderate risk force proposed before September 11, 2001. The fleet is already overstretched, yet under the Navy's long-range procurement plan, the number of SSNs will fall below 48 boats between 2022 and 2033, bottoming out at 41 in 2028 and 2029.[[#_ftnref18]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn18|[18]]] (See Chart 1.) [GRAPHIC OMITTED] </span>__To mitigate the projected "sub gap," the Navy is considering reducing Virginia-class construction time to 60 months__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, extending the service life of some Los Angeles-class subs by up to two years, and lengthening some deployments from six months to seven months. If successful, all of these measures combined would result in the force bottoming out at 44 or 45 submarines.[[#_ftnref19]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn19|[19]]] Yet these stopgap efforts will merely succeed in maintaining a force more appropriate to the pre-9/11 moderate risk scenario. Neglected ASW Capabilities. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The declining SSN force poses a challenge not only to</span> the Navy's ability to maintain effective <span style="background: yellow;">underwater deterrence</span>, <span style="background: yellow;">but also</span> to the Navy's <span style="background: yellow;">ASW efforts</span>, which are already suffering from declining numbers of other ASW platforms__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref20]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn20|[20]]] The Navy has 173 aging P-3C patrol aircraft,[[#_ftnref21]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn21|[21]]] and the P-8A (the P-3C's replacement) is not scheduled to begin entering service until 2013. The Navy is also retiring the S-3B Viking, its only long-range carrier-based ASW aircraft, and has no plans to replace it.[[#_ftnref22]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn22|[22]]] In addition, "[t]he Navy lacks a modern equivalent of the Sound Surveillance System (SOSUS), the theater-wide acoustic detection system developed in the 1950s to detect Soviet submarines."[[#_ftnref23]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn23|[23]]] This is emblematic of broader weaknesses. Many systems deployed during the Cold War are of limited usefulness in today's threat environment. For example, fixed sensors used during the Cold War are not located in areas where conflict is most likely to occur this century. Furthermore, </span>__more countries are deploying advanced submarines that could threaten U.S. aircraft carriers, raising the stakes of U.S. military intervention. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Navy force structure must adapt to this evolving underwater threat environment</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In July 2008, Navy officials testified before Congress about prioritizing relevant naval combat capability and recent developments that significantly changed how they view current threats. Vice Admiral Barry McCullough described the Navy's new perception of the threat environment: Rapidly evolving traditional and asymmetric threats continue to pose increasing challenges to Combatant Commanders. State actors and non-state actors who, in the past, have only posed limited threats in the littoral are expanding their reach beyond their own shores with improved capabilities in blue water submarine operations, advanced anti-ship cruise missiles and ballistic missiles. A number of countries who historically have only possessed regional military capabilities are investing in their Navy to extend their reach and influence as they compete in global markets. Our Navy will need to outpace other navies in the blue water ocean environment as they extend their reach. This will require us to continue to improve our blue water anti-submarine and anti-ballistic missile capabilities in order to counter improving anti-access strategies.[[#_ftnref24]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn24|[24]]] </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The Navy__</span>** __has acknowledged its atrophying ASW capabilities in the face of "a re-emerging undersea threat" and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">has set the goal of developing more advanced sensors and anti-submarine weapons</span>** in the coming years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref25]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn25|[25]]] </span>__The U.S. Pacific Fleet has reportedly already increased ASW training__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref26]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn26|[26]]] </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__These are critical efforts that must be sustained alongside a goal to increase the procurement of additional ASW platforms--primarily submarines__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and long-range maritime surveillance aircraft. China. Since the end of the Cold War, the People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) of the People's Republic of </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">China has dramatically expanded and upgraded</span>__</span>** __its navy, especially **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">its submarine fleet</span></span>**, which is "now considered **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the PLAN's most 'potent strength</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.'"[[#_ftnref27]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn27|[27]]] According to the Pentagon, China has the largest naval force in Asia,[[#_ftnref28]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn28|[28]]] including 60 attack submarines (six SSNs and 54 diesel attack submarines).[[#_ftnref29]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn29|[29]]] More than half of its diesel submarines are the more modern Kilo-class, Song-class, and Yuan-class submarines.[[#_ftnref30]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn30|[30]]] One observer has noted that "China now has more submarines than Russia, and the speed [at which] they are building them is amazing."[[#_ftnref31]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn31|[31]]] Submarine Fleet Expansion. China is well on its way to achieving its goal of building a credible blue-water navy that can project power well beyond its shores: In order to grasp the energy that China is now committing to undersea warfare, consider that during 2002-2004 China's navy launched thirteen submarines while simultaneously undertaking the purchase of submarines from Russia on an unprecedented scale. Indeed, </span>__China commissioned thirty-one new submarines between 1995 and 2005__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Given this rapid evolution, appraisals of China's capability to field competent and lethal diesel submarines in the littorals have slowly changed from ridicule to grudging respect of late. China's potential for complex technological development is finally being taken seriously abroad.[[#_ftnref32]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn32|[32]]] Estimates of the future size of China's attack submarine fleet vary widely from 58 boats to 88 boats,[[#_ftnref33]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn33|[33]]] depending on how quickly older submarines are retired from service, whether building more expensive SSNs will reduce total submarine production, and additional purchases of foreign-built submarines. In recent years, China has introduced four new classes of domestically designed and built submarines: Jin or Type 094 (SSBN), Shang or Type 093 (SSN), Yuan or Type 041/039A (SSP), and Song or Type 039/039G (SSK). A successor to the Shang-class is reportedly in development.[[#_ftnref34]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn34|[34]]] </span>__This degree of sustained investment in submarine development and building suggests that the upper end of the range (possibly 70 or more) is a more realistic estimate of PLAN force structure in the coming decades__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Increased Patrols. The Chinese attack submarine fleet has noticeably increased its patrol rate from two patrols in 2006 to six in 2007 to 12 in 2008.[[#_ftnref35]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn35|[35]]] This suggests a new focus on training and a desire to demonstrate to other actors, particularly the United States, that China is a maritime power in the Pacific. Two recent incidents highlight this trend. On October 26, 2006, a Chinese Song-class submarine surfaced within five miles of the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk--inside its screen of escorts--which was operating near Okinawa.[[#_ftnref36]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn36|[36]]] On June 11, 2009, a Chinese submarine collided with the USS John S. McCain's towed sonar array off the Philippines.[[#_ftnref37]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn37|[37]]] Whatever these incidents may or may not reveal about the limitations of U.S. ASW capabilities and the competence of Chinese submariners[[#_ftnref38]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn38|[38]]]--the most useful information is almost certainly classified--they clearly demonstrate that China's submarines are ranging farther afield and operating more aggressively than in the past. Objectives.A number of considerations and objectives could help to explain China's rapid expansion of its attack submarine fleet: basic Chinese defense needs, limiting the U.S. ability to "interfere" in China-Taiwan relations, challenging U.S. dominance in the Pacific, protecting the Chinese SSBN nuclear deterrent, and winning greater international prestige. First, the bulk of China's wealth and population is concentrated on its east coast, which gives China a compelling reason to deploy a robust naval deterrent along that coast. Alternatively, </span>__many security experts argue that "**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China's main objective in upgrading its submarine fleet is the ability <span style="background: yellow;">to delay or deter a <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">intervention on behalf of Taiwan</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."[[#_ftnref39]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn39|[39]]] China has been bedeviled by the "renegade province" of Taiwan and by U.S. meddling (from China's perspective) in cross-strait relations since 1949. When relations across the Taiwan Strait became particularly tense in 1996, the U.S. sent two carrier battle groups to the area to deter Chinese aggression against Taiwan. Unsurprisingly, China has since placed a high priority on developing sea denial capabilities that could discourage and, if necessary, delay or prevent U.S. military intervention in a future cross-strait dispute.[[#_ftnref40]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn40|[40]]] </span>__The U.S. D__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">epartment </span>__o__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">f </span>__D__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">efense </span>__has concluded that, "Acquisition and development of the Kilo, Song, Shang, and Yuan-class submarines illustrates the importance the PLA places on undersea warfare for sea denial__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."[[#_ftnref41]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn41|[41]]] The PLAN may also be emulating Soviet naval strategy, which "rapidly overcame the [Soviet Union's] unfavorable geostrategic situation" by using nuclear submarines to give it "an ocean-going navy with offensive capability."[[#_ftnref42]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn42|[42]]] A similar strategy would help the PLAN to break the "island chain blockade" of mainland China. The new naval base on Hainan Island adds an additional wrinkle, giving the PLAN "direct access to vital international sea lanes, and offer[ing] the potential for stealthy deployment of submarines into the deep waters of the South China Sea."[[#_ftnref43]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn43|[43]]] </span>__As part of its nuclear deterrent, China is expected to build as many as five Jin-class SSBN submarines, each armed with 12 SLBMs capable of reaching U.S. territory from positions off the Chinese coast. This would constitute a credible sea-based nuclear deterrent__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref44]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn44|[44]]] China may want to use some of its SSNs to escort SSBN deterrence patrols.[[#_ftnref45]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn45|[45]]] Finally, it seems clear that China intends to become a global power, and "it appears to be conventional wisdom in the PRC that nuclear submarines represent one of China's clearest claims to status as a great power."[[#_ftnref46]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn46|[46]]] A strong attack submarine fleet would also help to protect Chinese shipping around the world. The Yin He incident in 1993 helped to solidify this concern among PRC leaders, who were "extremely furious, but had no recourse" when the U.S. insisted on inspecting a Chinese freighter suspected of carrying ingredients of chemical weapons to Iran.[[#_ftnref47]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn47|[47]]] Australia. Australia has six diesel-electric submarines and has announced plans to replace them as part of a broader naval modernization program with 12 modern conventional submarines armed with cruise missiles.[[#_ftnref48]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn48|[48]]] The Australian government has explicitly tied this expansion to the rise of China as a naval power and weakening U.S. naval supremacy,[[#_ftnref49]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn49|[49]]] which Australia believes has "played a stabilizing role across the world and especially so in the Asia-Pacific region."[[#_ftnref50]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn50|[50]]] India. While geographically not a Pacific country, India exercises growing influence in Southeast Asia and the western Pacific. India has 16 diesel-powered attack submarines and recently launched its first SSN, which is based on the Russian Akula-class. India will lease a second Akula-class submarine from Russia and is building six Scorpene-class diesel submarines.[[#_ftnref51]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn51|[51]]] India's planned expansion and upgrade of its submarine fleet is part of a larger effort to add more than 100 warships to the Indian navy over 10 years. The Indian Ministry of Defense explains the shipbuilding program as a "strategic necessity" of national defense, largely in terms of countering the Chinese naval buildup: "China is developing its navy at a great rate. Its ambitions in the Indian Ocean are quite clear."[[#_ftnref52]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn52|[52]]] India also aspires to become a great power, and submarines are seen as an integral part of any major power's fleet. Russia. The Russian (formerly Soviet) submarine fleet shrank by almost two-thirds after the collapse of the Soviet Union. In recent years, the Russian navy has emerged from its post-Soviet crisis, but still needs to decommission dozens of nuclear submarines left over from the Cold War. In 2009, Russia had 17 SSNs and 20 diesel submarines, of which five SSNs and nine diesel submarines were assigned to the Pacific fleet.[[#_ftnref53]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn53|[53]]] Despite massive budget increases in recent years, "the navy is haunted by insufficient funding, which limits its ability to conduct regular overhauls of operational submarines and even to maintain them in a combat-ready state."[[#_ftnref54]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn54|[54]]] Japan. Japan maintains a modern submarine fleet of at least 16 boats, including at least one new Soryu-class AIP submarine.[[#_ftnref55]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn55|[55]]] Japan has historically replaced its submarines after about 16 years of service, much more quickly than other countries retire theirs.[[#_ftnref56]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn56|[56]]] South Korea. South Korea has 12 attack submarines and plans to increase its fleet to 27 by 2020.[[#_ftnref57]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn57|[57]]] North Korea. North Korea has 22 old conventional attack submarines (how many are serviceable is unknown) and numerous mini-submarines.[[#_ftnref58]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn58|[58]]] While its submarines could theoretically threaten merchant shipping and unsophisticated naval combatants,[[#_ftnref59]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn59|[59]]] North Korea's submarines are not viewed as serious contenders in sea control operations. Taiwan. Taiwan operates two attack submarines and has explored numerous options to expand and upgrade its submarine fleet, including domestic construction. In 2001, the U.S. offered Taiwan an arms package that included eight diesel-electric submarines, but the U.S. does not own the rights to any current diesel submarine designs, and the proposal appears to be dead.[[#_ftnref60]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn60|[60]]] Southeast Asia. </span>__In the context of China and India deploying nuclear-powered submarines, most countries in Southeast Asia are expanding or upgrading their existing submarine fleets. Indonesia has two submarines and has announced a plan to build 12 submarines__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by 2024.[[#_ftnref61]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn61|[61]]] </span>__Vietnam has ordered six Kilo-class submarines from Russia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref62]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn62|[62]]] </span>__Singapore has recently acquired two Archer-class AIP submarines__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to replace two of its four aging boats.[[#_ftnref63]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn63|[63]]] In October 2007, </span>__Malaysia received delivery of its first submarine__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a Scorpene-class boat built in France. The second is scheduled for delivery in 2010.[[#_ftnref64]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn64|[64]]] </span>__Thailand has no submarines, but has expressed increasing interest in acquiring several__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref65]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn65|[65]]] Sustaining U.S. Undersea Supremacy Over the past 16 years, </span>__China has rapidly expanded its submarine fleet while the U.S. has steadily drawn down its submarine forces even as combatant commanders have demanded more of their capabilities. U.S. allies and friends have expressed legitimate concerns about the shifting security environment in the Pacific__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The U.S.__</span>** __has acknowledged this shifting balance--at least in part--and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">has begun</span>** to address it. The Navy appears to be on course__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to fulfilling the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review directive </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__to deploy 60 percent of the U.S. submarine fleet in the Pacific__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">,[[#_ftnref66]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn66|[66]]] </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__but deploying a higher percentage of a shrinking fleet will likely prove less effective than increasing the total number of submarines__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__To halt and eventually reverse the erosion of U.S. undersea supremacy in the Pacific Ocean, to reassure and support U.S. allies, and to protect long-standing U.S. interests in the region, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the U.S. should</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;">: **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Build additional attack submarines more rapidly</span>**</span>. Congress should increase procurement of Virginia-class submarines to at least two per year with the objective of fielding a force of at least 60 fast attack submarines__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[[#_ftnref67]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn67|[67]]] Yet by itself, procuring new boats at the rate of two per year will not replace the Los Angeles-class submarines as quickly as they are scheduled to be decommissioned. Overhaul and modernize selected Los Angeles-class submarines to extend their service life. While overhauling and modernizing submarines will require additional funding, extending the service life of older submarines that are still in good condition--instead of decommissioning them as planned--would help to close the "sub gap" over the short term at a lower cost than drastically increasing submarine construction. Forward-base more submarines. Basing more submarines in Guam, Hawaii, and possibly Japan--in addition to the three SSNs already based in Guam--would place them closer to East Asia, where their services are most likely to be needed, and would allow them to maximize time on station and minimize travel time to and from their home ports.[[#_ftnref68]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn68|[68]]] The Navy should also consider acquiring additional submarine tenders, which would allow the creation of temporary forward bases where submarines could rotate crews and rearm. Reevaluate the use of diesel submarines. Congress should direct the Navy to study the utility of using AIP attack submarines to help to close the gap between regional commander requirements and the number of available U.S. submarines. In the short term, as domestic production capabilities develop, the U.S. could buy submarines from U.S. allies.[[#_ftnref69]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn69|[69]]] Developing a U.S. conventional submarine capability would also facilitate more robust ASW training and afford the U.S. the option to sell advanced diesel submarines to Taiwan. Research, develop, and deploy undersea force multipliers. Fielding unmanned undersea vehicles (UUVs) can enhance the range, capabilities, and lethality of existing undersea weapons, platforms, and sensors.[[#_ftnref70]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn70|[70]]] However, UUVs should not be viewed as replacements for attack submarines. The U.S. will need to continue deploying manned submarines for the foreseeable future while upgrading and enhancing their capabilities to counter developing and potential threats. Enhance anti-submarine warfare capabilities. Atrophied U.S. ASW capabilities are particularly worrisome because developing skilled ASW personnel requires years of intensive training. Congress should allocate sufficient and stable funding to increase ASW capabilities both qualitatively and quantitatively. Specifically, Congress should increase the number of ASW platforms by expanding and accelerating the P-8 program and by building more ships with ASW capabilities, including more DDG-1000 destroyers or upgraded DDG-51s with towed sonar arrays.[[#_ftnref71]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/02/Submarine-Arms-Race-in-the-Pacific-The-Chinese-Challenge-to-US-Undersea-Supremacy#_ftn71|[71]]] Work with the militaries of U.S. allies and friends to improve their submarine and ASW capabilities. These efforts should include more frequent and intensive multilateral exercises and maneuvers, technology sharing, and joint planning. Strengthening the capacity and capabilities of friendly foreign navies would allow the U.S. to employ fewer of its own resources in certain contingencies and missions, thereby freeing up U.S. submarines for other pressing needs. Encourage greater Chinese transparency in security matters through military-to-military channels. Greater Chinese transparency about its military may resolve or ease some of the concerns about China's naval buildup. Greater understanding may also help to prevent or defuse future incidents involving the U.S. and Chinese militaries. China's failure to give prior notice to the U.S. military of its recent missile defense test--contrary to common international practice--weakens transparency efforts and leads to many unanswered questions. Conclusion The shifting security environment in the Pacific Ocean and East Asia has caused serious concern among U.S. allies and friends. Several have responded by launching aggressive naval buildups, and Australia has openly tied its defense buildup to the shifting China-U.S. balance in the Pacific. </span>__The U.S. Navy is still the most powerful navy in the world, and it has the best-trained and most capable submarine force, but its declining numbers have been stretched thin by the demands of ongoing operations and other assigned missions. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The continuing decline</span> of the U.S. submarine fleet</span>**, in particular, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">threatens U.S. undersea supremacy in the Pacific and</span> therefore <span style="background: yellow;">could seriously undermine the Navy's ability to operate</span> effectively <span style="background: yellow;">in East Asia</span></span>** and the Pacific. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Unless the U.S. rebuilds its submarine fleet and enhances the Navy's ASW capabilities, U.S. military superiority in the Pacific will continue to wane, leading to avoidable political and economic hazards</span>** for the U.S. and its friends and allies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Intelligence indicates the Chinese are building submarines in preparation for an economic blockade of Taiwan – this is the most likely scenario for conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Goldstein and Murray ‘4**</span>__ (Lyle Goldstein, Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department; William Murray, retired submarine officer, Associate Professor in the War Gaming Department at the U.S. Naval War College, “Undersea Dragons; China's Maturing Submarine Force,” International Security, 28(4), Spring 2004, Project Muse) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The PLAN's near-term focus on diesel submarines is one of several indicators that suggest that Beijing's immediate focus is on the Taiwan problem__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Observers of the military balance across the strait generally agree that an invasion of Taiwan will continue to elude the PLA</span>** for at least the next decade. Despite the steady upgrading of the PLA Air Force, the revamping of Chinese special forces, and particularly the fielding of a vast array of short-range missiles, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the paucity of modern amphibious landing craft</span>** among other factors **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">makes a full-scale invasion</span>** an **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">unlikely</span>**, if still conceivable, possibility__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.n93 n93. See O'Hanlon, "Why China Cannot Conquer Taiwan," pp. 54-73. A BLOCKADE WITH CHINESE CHARACTERISTICS  </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Enhanced submarine capabilities and numbers increasingly give credence to an alternative strategy for coercing Taiwan: the naval blockade__</span>**. n94 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__As an island with few resources, Taiwan may be uniquely vulnerable to this form of coercion__</span>**__. The volatility of Taipei's stock market during the 1996 crisis indicates that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Taiwan</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">'s entire economy could face a meltdown if confronted with determined mainland efforts to subvert it</span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Moreover, the former ruling and now opposition party in Taipei, the Kuomintang, has been critical of the current Democratic Progressive Party government's tendency toward pro-independence rhetoric. This suggests a strong possibility that the mainland could succeed in exploiting Taiwan's internal political fissures in a crisis. In other words, Washington cannot count on a united front within Taiwan -- speedy capitulation is conceivable if Beijing confronts Taipei with a sophisticated strategy of sticks and carrots. n94. Of course, Beijing would very possibly integrate missiles and other aerial operations into a naval blockade. Thus, it has been suggested that "China's warplanes and missiles . . . can effectively break up Taiwan's antisubmarine troops." See Ching Tung, "Beijing's Submarine Forces and Taiwan's Antisubmarine Capabilities," Kuang Chiao Ching [Wide Angle], August 16, 2002, FBIS CPP2002082000067. See also Christensen's discussion of a "missile blockade" in his "Posing Problems without Catching Up," p. 29. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__A recent Chinese article strongly suggests that <span style="background: yellow;">PLA strategists are closely examining options for blockading Taiwan</span>__</span>**. Reflecting on the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, for example, the author concludes, "The United States achieved its objective of a deterrent blockade, forcing the Soviet Union to give in." According to this analysis, "A maritime blockade should be imposed suddenly, after thorough preparations, so as to have the effect of taking the enemy by surprise." It is noted, moreover, that "a maritime blockade in a civil war . . . does not come within the scope of application of international maritime law." n95 As another Chinese author explains, "**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Once China blockades Taiwan, sea transportation would be cut, Taiwan's economy would be paralyzed and its political situation would become unstable__</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">."n96 n95. Gao Hongyan, "A Chat on Naval Blockade Warfare," Xiandai Junshi [Modern Military], January 5, 2003, FBIS CPP20030127000191. n96. Ching Tung, "Beijing's Submarine Forces and Taiwan's Antisubmarine Capabilities," Kuang Chiao Ching, August 16, 2002, FBIS CPP20020816000067. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Chinese</span> diesel <span style="background: yellow;">submarines would be the decisive force</span> in this troubling scenario__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Employing its older submarines as mine layers and decoys would allow China to rely on its more modern submarines to patrol</span>** north, south, and east of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the island</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Even a few ship sinkings would prompt insurance brokers to revoke their coverage of merchant shipping, causing commerce at Taiwan's two biggest ports</span>**, Taipei and Kaoshiung, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">to swiftly grind to a halt</span>**__.n97  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Improved ASW capability and sheer numbers of subs will be key to breaking the blockade without losses </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Goldstein and Murray ‘4**</span>__ (Lyle Goldstein, Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department; William Murray, retired submarine officer, Associate Professor in the War Gaming Department at the U.S. Naval War College, “Undersea Dragons; China's Maturing Submarine Force,” International Security, 28(4), Spring 2004, Project Muse) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Simply stated, Taipei is unwilling or unable to devote the necessary resources to mount a credible defense against a sustained submarine campaign. It is therefore unlikely that Taiwan will be able to cope with such a scenario at present or for the foreseeable future.</span> __The more salient question is: **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Could the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span><span style="background: windowtext; font-weight: normal;">nited </span><span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span><span style="background: windowtext; font-weight: normal;">tates</span> break the blockade?</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Certainly yes, but the growing</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> capability of the <span style="background: yellow;">PLAN submarine force will increase the risk to U.S. naval forces</span> operating in the vicinity of Taiwan</span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. ASW IS HARD, AND GETTING HARDER </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The U.S. ability to wage ASW has withered significantly__</span>** __since the end of the Cold War__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. O'Hanlon estimates that "in an extreme case, a U.S. ship or two could even be sunk" in breaking a PRC blockade of Taiwan. n108 Our analysis shows this estimate to be too optimistic -- off by an order of magnitude. The discussion below reveals the flaws in O'Hanlon's estimate. n108. O'Hanlon, "Why China Cannot Conquer Taiwan," pp. 78-79. As one PLAN strategist correctly explains, "Attempting to track submarines in the tremendous expanse of the ocean is extremely difficult." n109 This assessment fully corresponds to U.S. Navy experience. Cote, for example, cites one participant in the increasingly difficult hunt for quiet Soviet submarines in the late Cold War: "[There were] several incidents in which the entire Navy had to deploy in order to find and maintain contact on one submarine." n110</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Finding and neutralizing quiet submarines requires an intricate choreography__</span>** __and the integration of the specialized characteristics of multiple aircraft, surface ships, submarines, and remote cueing systems. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The more physical assets that can be devoted to the problem of finding submarines, the more likely that adversary submarines can be found and destroyed</span>**, or at least driven off__. Similarly, the more highly skilled and trained the hunters are, the more likely their success. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Unfortunately, the U.S. Navy's ability to field large numbers of skilled submarine hunters__</span>** __and ASW platforms **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">has fallen precipitously</span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. n109. Anonymous quoted in "Zhongguo Xuyao Hangkong Mujian?" p. 9. n110. See Cote, The Third Battle, p. 70. During the Cold War, U.S carrier-borne S-3 Viking aircraft were effective submarine stalkers, capable of finding periscopes at long ranges with their potent radar. But the S-3s have been taken off of their ASW mission and have become full-time aerial refueling aircraft. Land-based P-3 Orion ASW aircraft have suffered a 50 percent overall force reduction, and in most regions they no longer focus on ASW as their principal mission. A third of the remaining P-3s will be removed from service by 2005 due to corrosion problems. n111 The U.S. Navy has effectively mothballed its Sound Surveillance System (SOSUS), and it has scaled back on the number and ASW prowess of its Surveillance Towed Array Sensor System-equipped T-AGOS ships, especially by failing to build beyond the first prototype of the Impeccable class. The navy has been unable to adequately test that ship's Low Frequency Active (LFA) sonar system due to lawsuits stemming from environmental concerns about possible harm to marine mammals. This is a severe blow to the U.S. Navy's shallow water ASW efforts given that the LFA system can provide particularly good long-range detection probabilities against modern diesel submarines in shallow waters. n112 Significantly, only five of the navy's twenty-two Cold War-era T-AGOS ships continue to perform ASW missions. n113 The navy's fleet of surface combatants is also much reduced. Such capable ASW ships as the remaining nineteen Spruance-class destroyers are slated for accelerated decommissioning as a cost-saving measure. n114 In fiscal year 2004, five Spruance destroyers are scheduled for decommissioning, as are four T-AGOS ships.n115 n111. The U.S. Navy intends to purchase 108 Multimission Maritime Aircraft (MMA), but this platform is not supposed to reach initial operating capability until 2013. There are also plans to purchase 50 Broad Area Maritime Surveillance unmanned aerial vehicles to augment the MMAs. See Mark Selinger, "Navy Plans Early Retirement for a Third of P-3 Fleet," Aerospace Daily, November 19, 2003. Using these aircraft to find and destroy submarines requires an uncontested aerial maritime environment. Robert Rubel, a professor at the Naval War College, observes that some aircraft in China's inventory, including especially the Su-27, would be highly effective against U.S. maritime surveillance aircraft because of the Su-27's speed and impressive range. n112. Fred Engle, "Sharing the Seas with Marine Mammals," Currents: The Navy's Environmental Magazine, Winter 2003, p. 19. n113. See "Counter-Drug Operations/Ocean Surveillance Ships -- T-AGOS," http://www.chinfo.navy.mil/navpalib/factfile/ships/ship-tagos3.html; "Victorious Class Ocean Surveillance Ships," http://www.hazegray.org/worldnav/; and "Cory Chouest Ocean Surveillance Ship," http://www.hazegray.org/worldnav/. n114. Hunter Keeter, "Mullen: Navy to Back Further Program Cuts, More Business Efficiencies," Defense Daily, January 17, 2003, p. 1. n115. Rear Adm. A.T. Church, U.S. Navy, FY 2004 President's Budget Overview, January 31, 2003, slide presentation, http://www.navweb.secnav.navy.mil/pubbud/04pres/highbook/31Jan_Budget_Rollout_brief.pdf. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">During any U.S. attempt to break a Chinese submarine blockade, American nuclear submarines would form the leading strike force</span>. <span style="background: yellow;">The <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span><span style="background: windowtext; font-weight: normal;">nited </span><span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span><span style="background: windowtext; font-weight: normal;">tates</span><span style="background: windowtext; font-weight: normal;">, </span>however, has only fifty-four</span> fast <span style="background: yellow;">attack submarines</span>__</span>**__, barely more than half of the one hundred SSNs operational in 1985__. n116 Nor are current building rates particularly reassuring. n117 The remaining U.S. SSNs are individually more capable than they were two decades ago, __but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">whereas during the Cold War SSNs focused primarily on their blue water ASW mission, today's SSN force must divide time between ASW, surveillance operations, and most prominently, the attack of targets ashore with cruise missiles. Added to this reduction in force and shift in mission is the irreducible difficulty of finding the modern, quiet diesel submarines in China's shallow and noisy littoral waters</span>**__. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">n116. "U.S. Navy Active Ship Force Levels, 1917-," http://www.history.navy.mil/branches/org9-4.htm. n117. In 2003, according to former U.S. Submarine Force Comdr. Vice Adm. John Grossenbacher, "The problem we have today is just numbers, . . . We don't have enough . . . . In my opinion, we're about as thin as we can be." Quoted in Robert A. Hamilton, "Lack of Subs Could Slow Pace of Technology, Admiral Warns," New London Day, September 30, 2003, p. A3. This same article observes, "The Navy is [currently] building one submarine a year, which will eventually result in a force of 30 boats." A looming budget shortfall later this decade endangers long-range plans to boost this low building rate. American SSNs could conduct a methodical search-and-destroy campaign against Chinese submarines, especially in the deep waters to the east of Taiwan where they can make full use of their superior technology, weapons, and training. But as one analyst notes, "Shallow water is ideally suited for [Chinese] submarine operations . . . . [They] can hide between the layers of the underwater thermals and maneuver among the rocks and shoals, where acoustics are clouded." n118</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In the vicinity of Taiwan, even <span style="background: yellow;">the U.S. submarine force would be strongly tested, given the difficult environment</span>, the large number of interfering merchant and fishing vessels that mask the quiet adversary, improvements in the PLAN submarine force's ASW weaponry, <span style="background: yellow;">and the sheer weight of Chinese numbers</span>__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This fundamental difficulty is exacerbated if U.S. SSNs are expected to operate in the Taiwan Strait, which is so shallow as to nearly preclude U.S. SSN operations there</span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. n119 Much of the East Asian littoral is comprised of shallow water, defined here as less than 200 meters in depth. This area, which encompasses nearly the entire Yellow and East China Seas, provides severely disadvantageous conditions for U.S. SSN employment, weapons, and sensors. Such conditions constitute nearly all of the waters to the west and north of Taiwan.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Failure to break the blockade, or even just substantial losses, ensures escalation and sparks global allied proliferation </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**O’Hanlon ‘5**</span>__ (Michael O’Hanlon, chair, Brookings Institution, “Conflict Scenarios over Taiwan – How to Avoid, or Contain, War,” paper prepared for the conference: "Preventing and Resolving Conflict Across the Taiwan Strait" Co-Sponsored by The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and The China Reform Forum Held in Beijing, 4-6-2005, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/OHanlonPaper1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">IMPLICATIONS--AS WELL AS LESSONS FOR CONFLICT AVOIDANCE AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT The above analysis, if right, should be sobering for Chinese and American officials (not to mention those in Taiwan!, though this analysis focuses on the two largest players and treats Taiwan's behavior largely as a given). Neither can be sure of how a PRC naval blockade of Taiwan in particular would play out. How much damage might result to Taiwan's economy, to U.S. Navy ships involved in breaking the blockade, and to China's military forces in any such encounter is very hard to predict. 6 </span>__For Chinese leaders, one risk is that a coercive use of force would not succeed because of American intervention, leading not only to a hostile great-power relationship for years but to military defeat__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Another risk is that the United States might try to destroy most PRC naval and air assets within combat range of Taiwan, leading to substantial Chinese military losses. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__For the U__</span>**__nited**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> S</span>**tates, which would clearly share the risk of a poisoned relationship with China for years to come,**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> an additional risk is that some of its <span style="background: yellow;">Navy ships</span>, perhaps even <span style="background: yellow;">including an aircraft carrier, could be sunk trying to break a Chinese blockade</span>. Indeed, a recent Naval War College paper estimated that a dozen or more U.S. ships could be lost. <span style="background: yellow;">Thousands of American casualties</span> </span>**and $10 billion or more in military hardware**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">could be the price</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. A second danger is that China could end its attacks as soon as U.S. ships and planes reached the region in large numbers--but then resume the strikes later, at a time and convenience of Beijing's choosing. China's geographic proximity would be a major advantage in such a protracted scenario. As noted, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__one likely consequence of <span style="background: yellow;">a war</span>, especially one <span style="background: yellow;">that</span> either <span style="background: yellow;">involved large numbers of casualties</span> or ended in an unsettled and tense way, would be a poor U.S.-PRC relationship. For example, long-term trade sanctions could easily be imposed by each side on the other__</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In addition, while both Washington and Beijing would surely try to maneuver for position internationally, there is a danger for China in particular that America's economic sanctions could be reinforced by those of other parts of the international community. Clearly, the PRC is attempting to improve its diplomatic standing throughout the region and world, partly to reduce the risks of such an outcome in a crisis, but it is hard to know in advance that China would be successful. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Both sides <span style="background: yellow;">would</span> also <span style="background: yellow;">face the danger</span>, even if small, <span style="background: yellow;">of</span> an <span style="background: yellow;">escalating</span> war. Once combat began, neither would be likely to find failure an acceptable option, meaning that <span style="background: yellow;">either might consider highly provocative second</span> and third <span style="background: yellow;">steps</span>__</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__For the__ </span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; font-size: 11pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span>__</span>**__nited__ **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; font-size: 11pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**__tates, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">its <span style="background: yellow;">options might include attacking</span> a wide range of PLA targets, even beyond the</span>**__ 7 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__immediate combat theater and even on <span style="background: yellow;">the Chinese mainland, particularly if</span> a blockade proves hard to break and/or if <span style="background: yellow;">American assets are lost in the battle. For China, options might include</span>__ </span>**__threats against American targets in places such as Japan, and even veiled**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">nuclear threats</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">--perhaps designed to strike military targets, or use EMP against civilian targets, rather than kill large numbers of civilians. Possible American Responses to Limit the Dangers Given these dire stakes, how could leaders in Washington and Beijing try to avoid war or, failing that, try to end it as quickly and safely as possible? Obviously, much would depend on the specifics of a given crisis. But a few broad guidelines can be offered in advance. Trying Nonmilitary Responses. For Washington, one response is not to go to war right away if Taiwan is seen as provoking the crisis. For example, if China uses force with some degree of restraint, avoiding not only American ships and other interests but innocent Taiwanese civilians as well, the United States might show restraint at first. It could use strong language to criticize Beijing publicly but meanwhile tell Taipei quietly to retract whatever language about independence had contributed to the crisis. This approach might work. However, it also might not, because America's pro-Taiwan feelings would probably intensify once Taiwan was attacked. </span>__In addition,**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> the U</span>**nited**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> S</span>**tates**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> would be concerned about showing a lack of resolve to defend its allies and interests around the world. That might telegraph to China that future uses of force could be undertaken safely. <span style="background: yellow;">It could also signal the world that the </span></span>**__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; font-size: 11pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span>__</span>**__nited__ **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; font-size: 11pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**__tates**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background: yellow;">was not willing to come to its allies' defense quickly. That could have repercussions from Korea to Japan to the Middle East</span>, among other things <span style="background: yellow;">making</span> some American <span style="background: yellow;">allies more inclined to pursue nuclear weapons</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. 8 Of course, there are many policy steps between "doing nothing" and going to war. Washington would have the option of responding with trade sanctions rather than force, if it needed to do something decisive yet wished to avoid war. It could also threaten to base military forces on Taiwan's soil and keep them there indefinitely, further reducing whatever ambiguity remains about its likely response to a crisis between Taiwan and China. Using Force. If the above methods did not work or were not deemed adequate, Washington could gradually ratchet up the toughness of its response. It could either directly use force, or publicly state the conditions under which it would, leaving it to China to have the last clear chance to avoid war. The United States would clearly defend any military assets it deployed to the region near Taiwan, firing back if fired upon. It would also likely fire back at any Chinese assets that targeted Taiwan's military or commercial shipping or ports, if its declared reason for deploying forces to the vicinity was to protect its friend. Ideally the United States could avoid escalation beyond this point, and in fact it should try to do so. Direct defense of one's own assets in international airspace and international waters is hardly a provocative act, so ideally the United States would be able to keep its military response at this level for a time, permitting time for talks. But Washington's uses of force would probably not remain at that level indefinitely. </span>Unless China quickly relented, __the United States might for example declare its intention to break China's blockade of Taiwan and state that after a certain time period it would attack and sink Chinese military assets that ventured beyond China's coasts and ports. This would still be a restrained military response, in that it would only target those Chinese assets that one had to assume as being tactically committed to put Taiwanese or American assets at risk. It would also attempt to keep the onus of starting any direct engagement between US and PRC forces on China__. 9 __One would hope that the war would never escalate beyond that point__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. If however intensive combat ensued, and American forces began to take losses, there would be pressure for a more general type of escalation in which American military forces attacked Chinese airfields on PRC territory as well as ships in port. Because of the dangers associated with this step in particular (even if only ports and airfields in southeastern China were attacked), it should be considered only as a very last resort. Before resorting to it, Washington should redouble efforts to end the conflict. The most natural method might be for Washington to promise Beijing that it would pressure Taiwan to retract its provocative statements. Indeed, Washington might pledge not to engage in normal diplomatic or economic interaction with Taiwan until that happened.  </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Escalation draws in other powers, ensuring global nuclear war </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Hunkovic ‘9**</span>__ (Lee J. Hunkovic, American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict: Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America,” 2009, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__A **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">war between China, Taiwan and the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, therefore, </span>__many countries__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> other than the primary actors </span>__could be affected__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by such a conflict, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">including</span>__</span>**__<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Japan, both Koreas, Russia</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">,</span>** Australia, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">India</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and Great Britain</span>**</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, if they were </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">drawn into the war, as well as all other countries</span>__</span>** __in the world **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">that participate in the global economy</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the possibility exists that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">they could then</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> plan to </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__attack Japan and <span style="background: yellow;">begin a policy of aggressive expansionism</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">which could</span>__</span>** __in turn **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">create an international</span> standoff</span>** and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">full-scale conflict</span></span>**, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study. </span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Only breaking the blockade without taking casualties solves escalation </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Lavere ‘4**</span>__ (Rick Lavere, freelance writer, grad student, University of Michigan, American Diplomacy, “American Deterrence in the Taiwan Straits,” 1-3-2004, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/archives_roll/2004_01-03/lavere_deter/lavere_deter.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">China believed that it had found a method, below the threshold set by Washington, for military intervention that could achieve, at least, a limited objective, that being the acquisition of the offshore islands. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__America’s policy__</span>** set out in the Mutual Defense Treaty of 1954, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__stated that the U__</span>**__nited **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">S</span>**tates **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">would aid in the defense of the offshore islands if it was perceived that the attack was part of a larger invasion of Taiwan</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">or the Pescadores (of course, whether or not that was the case would be a purely subjective matter, since the Washington did not which to articulate any specific scenario that would force them to defend the offshore islands). Clearly, this was not.</span> Thus, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__unlike the previous crisis, <span style="background: yellow;">the decision to escalate</span>, it was believed in Beijing, <span style="background: yellow;">would rest</span> squarely <span style="background: yellow;">on the shoulders of the Americans. Escalation</span> on the part of the U<span style="font-weight: normal;">nited </span>S<span style="font-weight: normal;">tates</span> <span style="background: yellow;">would entail attacks on the mainland</span>__</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">which meant the possible entry of the Soviet Union into the conflict. As Eisenhower stated during the first crisis, "if we get into a general war, the logical enemy will be Russia, not China, and we’ll have to strike there."[[#text33]][[http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/archives_roll/2004_01-03/lavere_deter/lavere_deter.html#note33|33]] Given the changing military balance between the United States and the Soviet Union, it was even less likely in 1958 that the U.S. would consider an attack on the Soviet Union than in 1954. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__As in the case of Berlin__</span>** in 1948, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">America</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;"> was able to break the blockade without escalating the conflict. Once that was achieved, the ball was back in Beijing’s court so to speak</span>. The Chinese, then, had to decide whether or not escalating the crisis was worth the possible risks__</span>**. Since Moscow had made it clear to China that military aid would not be forthcoming if China attacked Taiwan, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">the PRC had little choice other than to deescalate or risk certain defeat</span>__</span>**. The Chinese were, thus, very rational in their conduct of the crisis in 1958. By weighing the options, they were able to create a plan that minimized the risk to themselves, and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">when the risks grew</span> to the point where the expected utility of the action was less than the potential costs, <span style="background: yellow;">they backed off</span>__</span>**. __Because the Chinese were unwilling to risk a possible military showdown with the United States in 1958, America’s policy of extended deterrence can said to have been, for the most part, a success__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. While the PRC continued to make speeches about retaking both the offshore islands and Taiwan itself, and even though the United States had been unable to stop the Chinese from initiating an artillery bombardment of Quemoy, America’s policy of extended deterrence was successful in forcing the Chinese to scale down their objectives. Just eight years earlier the Communists were preparing for an amphibious landing on Formosa which would have ended the Nationalist’s hopes for control of the mainland. By 1958, the Chinese had given up hope of a quick victory against Taiwan and were willing to settle for a war of attrition in an attempt to weaken U.S. resolve. Since America’s policy of extended deterrence regarding Taiwan was costing the United States nothing (unlike Vietnam), it was a type of war that the Chinese could not win. Finally, after a brief crisis in 1962, military conflict, for the most part, ceased between China and Taiwan. The withdrawal of Nationalist forces from the Tachen Islands (and China’s subsequent occupation of those islands) had not caused a slump in moral among the Taiwanese which some in Washington had predicted, and China by the mid- ‘60’s, suffering from a growing sense of isolation, was less interested in provoking the United States. </span>__While there was actual violence between China and Taiwan between 1950 and 1958 which America’s policy of extended deterrence was unable to prevent, this does not invalidate the effectiveness of extended deterrence theory. The fact that China was forced into accepting a less ambitious outcome__ (even if it was a tacit, rather than declared acceptance) __lends support to the theory’s effectiveness__.</span>[[#text34]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/archives_roll/2004_01-03/lavere_deter/lavere_deter.html#note34|34]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> __These crises also show, however, the theory’s limitations, which can be exploited by a determined challenger__.

</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Advantage Two: European TMD </span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Deployment of European missile defense is inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Gertz ‘10**</span>__ (Bill Gertz, “Obama reaffirms long-range missile defenses in Europe,” The Washington Times, 12-18-2010, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/dec/18/obama-reaffirms-us-deployment-long-range-missile-d/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">President </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/barack-obama/|__Obama__]]</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on Saturday </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">reaffirmed the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|__U.S.__]] commitment to building a long-range missile defense system in Europe</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that likely will be opposed by [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/russia/|Russia]] and might prompt Moscow’s withdrawal from the arms treaty known as the New START. In a letter to [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/senate/|Senate]] leaders aimed at allaying concerns voiced by treaty opponents that the new arms treaty will constrain missile defenses, </span></span>[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/barack-obama/|Mr. Obama]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> __said that “as long as I am president and as long as the__ </span>[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/congress/|Congress]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> __provides the necessary funding, the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]] </span>__will continue to develop and deploy effective missile defenses to protect the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]], </span>__our deployed forces, and our allies and partners__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” Significantly, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/barack-obama/|Mr. Obama]] stated in the letter that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|__Pentagon__]] is committed to__</span>** __all four phases of its **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">European missile defenses</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/pentagon/|__Pentagon__]] will begin deploying</span></span>** the first phase of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">sea-based missile defenses in and around Europe next year</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, he stated, and will then start fielding advanced, ground-based SM-3 anti-missile interceptors in [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/romania/|Romania]] and [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/poland/|Poland]] to protect Europe and [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|U.S.]] forces from Iranian and other medium-range missiles. “In the final phase, planned for the end of this decade, </span>__further upgrades of the SM-3 interceptor will provide an ascent-based intercept capability to augment our defense of__ </span>[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/north-atlantic-treaty-organization-nato/|NATO]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> __European territory, as well as that of the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]], </span>__against future threat of ICMBs launch from [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/islamic-republic-of-iran/|__Iran__]]__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">,” [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/barack-obama/|Mr. Obama]] said. A copy of the letter was obtained by [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/the-washington-times/|The Washington Times]]. The president’s statement clarifies a recent internal [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/department-of-state/|State Department]] fact sheet on missile defense circulated recently on Capitol Hill and first reported by [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/the-times/|The Times]] that mentioned the first three phases of the European missile defense plan but omitted the fourth — a program of advanced SM-3s capable of hitting long-range strategic missiles. The ommission led some members of [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/congress/|Congress]] to question the administration’s commitment to defending the continental [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|United States]] from long-range missile attack. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The SM-3</span>__</span>**__, currently **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">deployed only on Aegis-equipped warships, is the centerpiece of the administration’s</span></span>** so-called European Phased Adaptive **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Approach</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (EAPP) </span>__that was put in place of an earlier plan to deploy larger high-speed ground based interceptors in [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/poland/|__Poland__]]__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. That plan was canceled amid [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/government-of-russia/|Russian government]] objections that the interceptors and related radar would be able to counter Russian strategic missiles.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Manpower shortages are crippling its readiness – additional personnel are key </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Ewing ‘10**</span>__ (Philip Ewing, Staff Writer, Navy Times, “Study says Aegis radar systems on the decline,” Navy Times, 7-5-2010, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2010/07/navy_aegis_070510w/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The advanced radar systems aboard cruisers and destroyers are in their worst shape ever</span>__</span>**__, according to an independent probe into Navy readiness, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">raising questions about the surface fleet’s ability to take on its</span></span>** high-profile **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">new mission</span></span>** next year **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">defending Europe from ballistic missiles</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Poor training, impenetrable bureaucracy and cultural resignation have caused a spike in the number of technical problems and a dip in the operational performance of the Aegis system, considered the crown jewel of the U.S. surface force, according to members of a “fleet review panel” tasked with assessing the surface fleet__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. And if that’s the situation with Aegis — which includes warships’ iconic, hexagonal SPY-1 radar arrays — the panel wondered what that could mean for other, lower-profile equipment. “The SPY radar has historically been the best supported system in the surface Navy, and coincidentally supports one of the most critical Navy missions today: ballistic-missile defense. Yet SPY manpower, parts, training and performance are in decline.” If that’s the case, the report said, “it can be assumed that less important systems could well be in worse material condition.” The panel was convened last September by Adm. John Harvey, head of Fleet Forces Command. The seven-member panel, which was chaired by retired Vice Adm. Phillip Balisle and included two serving admirals, produced a comprehensive indictment of Navy decision-making since the late 1990s: Admirals’ preoccupation with saving money, which prompted them to cut crews and “streamline” training and maintenance, led to a force that can’t keep ships in fighting shape. The panel’s report was obtained by Navy Times. Navy officials in the Pentagon deferred questions about Aegis problems to Naval Sea Systems Command, which had not responded as of late last week. </span>__The mighty Aegis has fallen Although sailors and other observers have said before that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">cuts in crew sizes hurt readiness</span></span>**, Balisle’s report is the first to detail so many problems with **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Aegis</span></span>**, widely considered the world’s finest seagoing radar and combat system. It **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">is so powerful</span> and adaptable</span>**, in fact, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the <span style="background: yellow;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: yellow;">is banking on it to become a permanent BMD shield for Europe next year</span>, taking the place of ground-based sensors and weapons as U.S. warships make standing patrols in the Mediterranean</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">But</span>__</span>** __the report said **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Aegis</span></span>**, like the rest of the fleet, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">has become a victim of personnel cuts</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and the Navy’s labyrinthine internal organization. </span>__Casualty reports are up 41 percent from fiscal 2004, and those requiring technical assistance are up 45 percent. Over the same period, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">SPY <span style="background: yellow;">radar performance</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as observed by the Board of Inspection and Survey, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">has steadily worsened</span>__</span>** __for cruisers and destroyers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The report includes a sample of eight cruisers visited in the past several months by InSurv, whose scores on Aegis readiness form a distinct downward trend. The best performers were Cape St. George and Lake Erie, each of which got the maximum score of 1.0, which earns a rating of “satisfactory”; Cowpens and Chosin, with scores between 0.8 and 1.0, also earned “sat.” The worst were Monterey, Chancellorsville, San Jacinto and Normandy, all of which got grades that would have earned them ratings of “degraded” or “unsat.” What’s causing it? The panel cited many reasons: • </span>__There aren’t enough qualified people in the right jobs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: 39 of 58 destroyers have a second class fire controlman in a first class SPY maintenance billet. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Seven</span> of 22 <span style="background: yellow;">cruisers don’t even have enough sailors to meet the minimum number</span>__</span>** __of authorized billets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. • Sailors aren’t fully trained on maintaining the radars. • It’s too much work navigating the Navy bureaucracy to order replacement parts, and, as such, crews have grown to accept “degradation,” Balisle’s panel found. For example, ships are not ordering replacement voltage regulators, the report said, which SPY radars need to help manage their prodigious power consumption. Crews aren’t ordering them because technicians can’t get the money to buy spares, so commanders are knowingly taking a risk in operating their systems without replacements. “The technicians can’t get the money to buy spare parts,” the report said. “They haven’t been trained to the requirement. They can’t go to their supervisor because, in the case of the DDGs, they likely are the supervisor. They can’t repair the radar through no fault of their own, but over time, the nonresponsiveness of the Navy system, </span>__the acceptance of the SPY degradation by the Navy system and their seniors, officers and chiefs alike, will breed [if not already] a culture that tolerates poor system performance__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. “The fact that requests for technical assistance are up Navy-wide suggests there is a diminished self-sufficiency in the surface force. Sailors are losing their sense of ownership of their equipment and are more apt to want others to fix it.” Naval expert A.D. Baker III, a retired Office of Naval Intelligence analyst and longtime editor of “Combat Fleets of the World,” called the Balisle findings “utterly damning.” “The Aegis readiness shortfall is just one of a vast number of problems related to pushing people too far and not giving them the training or funding resources to carry out their duties properly,” Baker said. He said the report’s findings showed the Defense Department’s priorities for European BMD had been misplaced. “</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">This will significantly affect our putative BMD capability</span>__</span>**__. The [Pentagon’s] money is going to missile development and procurement, not to maintenance of the detection and tracking system — without which the best missiles in the world won’t be of much use__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” Balisle’s report has few specific recommendations for improving the health of </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Aegis</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, although it </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">would</span> likely <span style="background: yellow;">benefit from</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the review panel’s broader suggestions for </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">adding more sailors to sea</span>__</span>** __and shore **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">assignments</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The panel does call for Big Navy to create a “SPY Readiness Program” and to “restore all aspects of SPY performance as a matter of priority, to include manning, training, equipping and maintenance.” The Balisle commission does warn of the dangers of an “it’s not my problem” ethos in the surface force, which it said will make the Navy’s troubles, from Aegis to corrosion, all the more difficult to fix: “From the most senior officers to the most junior petty officer, the culture reveals itself in personal attitudes ranging from resignation to frustration to toleration. The downward spiral of the culture is seen throughout the ship, in the longstanding acceptance of poor housekeeping, preservation and corrosion control. Over time, the ignored standard now becomes the norm. Sailors watching their commanding officer, department head, division officer and chief petty officer step over running rust, peeling non-skid or severe structure damage long enough associate this activity as the standard.” </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Plan solves </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Burleson ‘8**</span>__ (Mike D. Burleson, military writer, articles have been published in The American Thinker, The Washington Post, Sea Classics Magazine, and Strategypage.com, author of //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">New Wars: The Transformation of Armies, Navies, and Airpower in the Digital Age</span>//, “Heart’s in the Right Place,” 12-22-2008, http://newwars.wordpress.com/2008/12/22/hearts-in-the-right-place/) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Trim the active-duty Navy and Air Force. I concur with this. Consider that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">a single aircraft carrier would release 5000-6000 trained personnel for duties elsewhere</span>__</span>**__. Also, why do we need thousands of warplanes considering the enhanced capabilities precision bombs like JDAM give them, not to mention the rising use of pilotless drones?__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Increase the size of the ground force. Maybe, but considering we are nearing the end of major combat operations in Iraq, and probably in Afghanistan (with fingers crossed!), not sure why we should increase troops strength in a post-war environment. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This is the only way to deter and defend an Iranian EMP attack against the U.S., causing death of 90% of the population, total blackout, and collapse of the information economy </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">Kenneth R. **__<span style="background: yellow;">Timmerman</span>__**, 7-29-200**__<span style="background: yellow;">8</span>__**, “U.S. Intel: Iran Plans Nuclear Strike on U.S.,” Tuesday July 29th 2008 </span>[[http://www.newsmax.com/timmerman/iran_nuclear_plan/2008/07/29/117217.html]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">Iran has carried out missile tests for</span></span>** what could be a plan for **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">a nuclear strike on the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span></span>**__nited **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**tates, the head of a national security panel has warned. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">In testimony before the House Armed Services Committee and in remarks to a private conference on missile defense over the weekend hosted by the Claremont Institute, Dr. William Graham warned that the U.S. intelligence community “doesn’t have a story” to explain the recent Iranian tests. One group of tests that troubled Graham, the former White House science adviser under President Ronald Reagan, were successful efforts to launch a Scud missile from a platform in the Caspian Sea. “They’ve got [test] ranges in Iran which are more than long enough to handle Scud launches and even Shahab-3 launches,” Dr. Graham said. “Why would they be launching from the surface of the Caspian Sea? They obviously have not explained that to us.” </span>__Another troubling group of tests involved Shahab-3 launches where the Iranians "detonated the warhead near apogee, not over the target area where the thing would eventually land, but at altitude__,” Graham said. “Why would they do that?” Graham chairs the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack, a blue-ribbon panel established by Congress in 2001. __The commission examined the Iranian tests “and without too much effort connected the dots,” even though the U.S. intelligence community previously had failed to do so__, Graham said. __“**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">The only plausible explanation</span></span>** we can find **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">is that the Iranians are figuring out how to launch a missile from a ship and get it up to altitude and then</span> </span>**detonate it__,” he said. “__And that’s exactly what you would do if you had a nuclear weapon on a Scud or a Shahab-3 or other missile, and you wanted to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">explode it over the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span></span>**__nited **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span>__</span>**tates.” The commission warned in a report issued in April that the United States was at risk of a sneak nuclear attack by a rogue nation or a terrorist group designed to take out our nation’s critical infrastructure. "__If **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">even a crude nuclear weapon</span></span>** were detonated anywhere between 40 kilometers to 400 kilometers above the earth, in a split-second it **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">would generate an electro-magnetic pulse</span></span>**__ [EMP] **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">that would cripple military and civilian communications, power, transportation, water, food, and other infrastructure</span>__</span>**," the report warned. While not causing immediate civilian casualties, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">the near-term impact</span> on U.S. society <span style="background: yellow;">would dwarf the damage of a direct nuclear strike</span>__</span>** __on a U.S. city__. “__The first indication [of such an attack] would be that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">the power would go out</span></span>**__, and some, but not all, the telecommunications would go out<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We would not physically feel anything in our bodies,” Graham said. As electric power, water and gas delivery systems failed, there would be “truly massive traffic jams,” Graham added, since modern automobiles and signaling systems all depend on sophisticated electronics that would be disabled by the EMP wave. “So you would be walking. You wouldn’t be driving at that point,” Graham said. “And it wouldn’t do any good to call the maintenance or repair people because they wouldn’t be able to get there, even if you could get through to them.” </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The food distribution system also would grind to a halt</span>__</span>** __as cold-storage warehouses stockpiling perishables went offline. Even warehouses equipped with **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">backup diesel generators would fail</span>, because “we wouldn’t be able to pump the fuel into the trucks and get the trucks to the warehouses</span>**__,” Graham said. __The United States “would quickly revert to an early 19th century type of country.” except that we would have 10 times as many people with ten times fewer resources__, he said<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. “Most of the things we depend upon would be gone, and we would literally be depending on our own assets and those we could reach by walking to them,” Graham said. America would begin to resemble the 2002 TV series, “Jeremiah,” which depicts a world bereft of law, infrastructure, and memory. In the TV series, an unspecified virus wipes out the entire adult population of the planet. In an EMP attack, the casualties would be caused by our almost total dependence on technology for everything from food and water, to hospital care. Within a week or two of the attack, people would start dying, Graham says. “People in hospitals would be dying faster than that, because they depend on power to stay alive. But then it would go to water, food, civil authority, emergency services. And we would end up with a country with many, many people not surviving the event.” Asked just how many Americans would die if Iran were to launch the EMP attack it appears to be preparing, Graham gave a chilling reply. “You have to go back into the 1800s to look at the size of population” that could survive in a nation deprived of mechanized agriculture, transportation, power, water, and communication. </span>“I’d have to say that 70 to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">90 percent of the population would not be sustainable</span>__</span>** __after this kind of attack__,” he said. America would be reduced to a core of around 30 million people — about the number that existed in the decades after America’s independence from Great Britain. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The modern electronic economy would shut down</span>__</span>**__, and America would most likely revert to “an earlier economy based on barter__,” the EMP commission’s report on Critical National Infrastructure concluded earlier this year. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">In his recent congressional testimony, Graham revealed that Iranian military journals, translated by the CIA at his commission’s request, “explicitly discuss a nuclear EMP attack that would gravely harm the United States.” Furthermore, if Iran launched its attack from a cargo ship plying the commercial sea lanes off the East coast — a scenario that appears to have been tested during the Caspian Sea tests — U.S. investigators might never determine who was behind the attack. Because of the limits of nuclear forensic technology, it could take months. And to disguise their traces, the Iranians could simply decide to sink the ship that had been used to launch it, Graham said. Several participants in last weekend’s conference in Dearborn, Mich., hosted by the conservative Claremont Institute argued that Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was thinking about an EMP attack when he opined that “a world without America is conceivable.” In May 2007, then Undersecretary of State John Rood told Congress that the U.S. intelligence community estimates that Iran could develop an ICBM capable of hitting the continental United States by 2015. But Iran could put a Scud missile on board a cargo ship and launch from the commercial sea lanes off America’s coasts well before then. </span>__The only thing Iran is lacking for an effective EMP attack is a nuclear warhead, and no one knows with any certainty when that will occur. The latest U.S. intelligence estimate states that Iran could acquire the fissile material for a nuclear weapon as early as 2009, or as late as 2015, or possibly later__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld first detailed the “Scud-in-a-bucket” threat during a briefing in Huntsville, Ala., on Aug. 18, 2004. While not explicitly naming Iran, Rumsfeld revealed that “one of the nations in the Middle East had launched a ballistic missile from a cargo vessel. They had taken a short-range, probably Scud missile, put it on a transporter-erector launcher, lowered it in, taken the vessel out into the water, peeled back the top, erected it, fired it, lowered it, and covered it up. And the ship that they used was using a radar and electronic equipment that was no different than 50, 60, 100 other ships operating in the immediate area.” Iran’s first test of a ship-launched Scud missile occurred in spring 1998, and was mentioned several months later in veiled terms by the Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States, a blue-ribbon panel also known as the Rumsfeld Commission. I was the first reporter to mention the Iran sea-launched missile test in an article appearing in the Washington Times in May 1999. Intelligence reports on the launch were “well known to the White House but have not been disseminated to the appropriate congressional committees,” I wrote. Such a missile “could be used in a devastating stealth attack against the United States or Israel for which the United States has no known or planned defense.” </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Few experts believe that Iran can be deterred from launching such an attack by the threat of massive retaliation__</span>** __against Iran__. They point to a December 2001 statement by former Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani, who mulled the possibility of Israeli retaliation after an Iranian nuclear strike. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">“The use of an atomic bomb against Israel would destroy Israel completely, while [the same] against the Islamic only would cause damages. Such a scenario is not inconceivable,” Rafsanjani said at the time. Rep. Trent Franks, R, Ariz., plans to introduce legislation next week that would require the Pentagon to lay the groundwork for an eventual military strike against Iran, to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons and EMP capability. “An EMP attack on America would send us back to the horse and buggy era — without the horse and buggy,” he told the Claremont Institute conference on Saturday. “If you’re a terrorist, this is your ultimate goal, your ultimate asymmetric weapon.” Noting Iran’s recent sea-launched and mid-flight warhead detonation tests, Rep. Franks concluded, “They could do it — either directly or anonymously by putting some freighter out there on the ocean.” </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The only possible deterrent against Iran is the prospect of failure</span>__</span>**__, Dr. Graham and other experts agreed. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">And the only way the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">U</span></span></span>**nited **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">S</span></span>**tates **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">could credibly threaten an Iranian missile strike would be to deploy effective</span></span>** national **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">missile defenses</span></span>**__. <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">And, ensures nuclear accidents </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">Bill **__<span style="background: yellow;">Vann</span>__**, 8-20-200**__<span style="background: yellow;">3</span>__**, “The US Blackout and “Homeland Security”,” WSWS, </span>[[@http://www.wsws.org/articles/2003/aug2003/sec-a20.shtml]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__Nine **<span style="background: yellow;">nuclear power reactors were forced to shut down during the blackout. Had the diesel generators used to maintain essential operations at any one of these plants failed, a catastrophic nuclear meltdown would have occurred</span>**__.Reports submitted to the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission after the blackout noted that **__the emergency sirens used to warn of such a meltdown were knocked out at both__** __the Indian Point and Ginna **nuclear plants in New York. Had a meltdown taken place at one of these plants, hundreds of thousands of people in surrounding communities would have received deadly doses of radiation without even being aware of what has happening**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Thousands of people trapped in trains underground; tens of thousands massing at bridges, bus stations and ferry terminals; essential communications, including both cell phones and emergency response systems, disrupted; nuclear power plants and similar facilities at risk—but nothing, apparently, for the department ostensibly formed to secure the “homeland” to get particularly bothered about.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The impact is extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">Dr. Helen **__<span style="background: yellow;">Caldicott</span>__**, 19**__<span style="background: yellow;">94</span>__**, Nuclear Madness: What You Can Do, p.59-60, Google Books </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">On February 2, 1976, three men with fifty-six years of combined work experience at all levels of the nuclear power industry resigned from secure (and well-paying) positions as nuclear engineers at General Electric. Dale Bridenbaugh, Richard Hubbard, and Greg Minot explained their reasons for leaving to the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy: When we first joined the General Electric Nuclear Energy Division, we were very excited about the idea of this new technology—atomic power—and the promise of a virtually limitless source of safe, clean and economic energy for this and future generations. But now…the promise is still unfulfilled. The nuclear industry has developed to become an industry full of narrow specialists, each promoting and refining a fragment of the technology, with little comprehension of the total impact on our world system…We (resigned) because we could no longer justify devoting our life energies to the continued development and expansion of </span>**__<span style="background: yellow;">nuclear fission power</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—</span>**__a system__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> we believe to be </span>**__<span style="background: yellow;">so dangerous that it now threatens the very existence of life on this planet</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We could no longer rationalize the fact that our daily labour would result in a radioactive legacy for our children and grandchildren for hundreds of thousands of years. We could no longer resolve our continued participation in an industry which will depend upon the production of vast amounts of plutonium, a material known to cause cancer and produce genetic defects, and which facilitates the continued proliferation of atomic weapons throughout the world. During their long testimony, these men claimed, among other things, that the </span>__defects and deficiencies in just the design of nuclear reactors alone created severe safety hazards, and__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that </span>__the combined deficiencies “in the design, construction, and operation of nuclear power plants makes a nuclear power plant accident__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in our opinion, </span>__a certain event. The only question is when and where__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” Since that time, Three Mile Island and Chernobyl have melted down, with the strong possibility of more meltdowns to come. </span>**__What makes <span style="background: yellow;">an accident in a nuclear power station</span> uniquely dangerous is the potential <span style="background: yellow;">release</span> into the environment of <span style="background: yellow;">highly poisonous radioactive elements that can contaminate large areas of land and make them uninhabitable for thousands of years</span>__**__. What makes an accident seem inevitable is the human factor. The most advanced plant is still at the mercy of the fallible human beings who design, build, and operate it. Millions of parts are needed to construct a nuclear reactor, and each must be made, assembled, and operated with little room for error. Remember also that **<span style="background: yellow;">the controlled chain reaction in a reactor is just a silent bomb waiting to melt down</span> or to spread its toxic waste within the natural environmental systems for the rest of time**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">__Our Aff Is True__: </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The only relevant cause of war is the permissive cause – our focus on creating material obstacles to war through preponderance of power is the only theory which can command robust empirical support </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Levy ‘98**</span>__ (Jack S. Levy, Board of Governors' Professor of Political Science at Rutgers University, and Senior Associate at the Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University, former president of the International Studies Association, and of the Peace Science Society, “The Causes of War and the Conditions of Peace,” Annual Review of Political Science, vol. 1, 1998, http://fas-polisci.rutgers.edu/levy/1998%20causes%20of%20war%20&%20conditions%20of%20peace.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Despite this consensus on what we are trying to explain, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the question of what causes war can mean several different things__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Suganami 1996). It can refer, first of all, to </span>__the question of what makes war possible, to the permissive or logically necessary conditions for war. These fundamental or **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">primary causes of war</span></span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">explain why war</span>** repeatedly occurs in international politics, why war **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">can occur at any moment</span>**. Thus **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">scholars trace war to human nature, <span style="background: yellow;">biological instincts</span>, frustration, <span style="background: yellow;">fear and greed</span>, <span style="background: yellow;">the existence of weapons</span>, and similar factors</span>**. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Peace, however, is far more common than war</span>**, though as a “non-event” peace is difficult to measure__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. At the systemic level there may be more years characterized by war than by peace, but in nearly all war years most states are at peace, and at the dyadic level war is rare (Bremer 1992). </span>__This makes it hard to argue that human nature and related factors are causes of war. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The point is that these factors <span style="background: yellow;">are constants and cannot explain</span> the <span style="background: yellow;">variations</span> in war and peace <span style="background: yellow;">over time and space</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Waltz 1959, Cashman 1993). </span>__If human nature varies, as some argue, then it is the sources of that variation, not human nature itself, that explain behavior. Moreover, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">even if</span></span>** human nature or biologically based **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">instincts could explain aggressive behavior at the individual level, they cannot explain when such aggression leads to domestic violence, when it leads to scapegoating</span></span>** or other outlets, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">when it is resolved, and when it leads to international war</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The question of how to explain variations in war and peace is the second meaning of the broader question of what causes war. Why does war occur at some times rather than other times, between some states rather than other states, under some political leaders rather than others, in some historical and cultural contexts rather than others__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and so on? This differs from still a third question: How do we explain the origins of a particular war? Most international relations scholars (and particularly those in North America) focus primarily on the second question, explaining variations in war and peace. They leave the question of why war occurs at all to philosophers and biologists and leave the question of why a particular war occurs to historians. This is not to pass judgment on the relative importance of the three questions, only to say that they are different and that their investigation may require different theoretical orientations, different conceptions of causation and explanation, and different methodologies. One important exception to this focus on variations in war and peace is the argument by Waltz (1979) and other neorealists that the fundamental cause of war is the anarchic structure of the international system. Anarchy, defined as the absence of a legitimate governmental authority to regulate disputes and enforce agreements between states, “causes” war in the sense that there is no governmental enforcement mechanism in the international system to prevent wars.5 Although anarchy may provide one persuasive answer to the question of the permissive causes of war, it is generally treated as a structural constant and consequently it cannot account for variations in war and peace. Waltz (1988, p. 620) seems to concede this point and argues, “Although neorealist theory does not explain why particular wars are fought, it does explain war’s dismal recurrence through the millennia.” Other neorealists also recognize this limitation and have begun to incorporate other variables, including the polarity of the system and the offensive/defensive balance, in order to explain variations of war and peace in anarchic systems. Another exception to the focus on variations in war and peace can be found </span>__in some feminist theorizing about the outbreak of war__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, although most feminist work on war focuses on the consequences of war, particularly for women, rather than on the outbreak of war (Elshtain 1987, Enloe 1990, Peterson 1992, Tickner 1992, Sylvester 1994). </span>__The argument is that the gendered nature of states, cultures, and the world system contributes to the persistence of war in world politics. This might provide an alternative (or supplement) to anarchy as an answer to the first question of why violence and war repeatedly occur in international politics, although the fact that peace is more common than war makes it difficult to argue that patriarchy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (or anarchy) </span>__causes war__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Theories of patriarchy might also help answer the second question of variations in war and peace, if they identified differences in the patriarchal structures and gender relations in different international and domestic political systems in different historical contexts, and if they incorporated these differences into empirically testable hypotheses about the outbreak of war__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is a promising research agenda, and one that has engaged some anthropologists. </span>__Most current feminist thinking in political science about the outbreak of war, however, treats gendered systems and patriarchal structures in the same way that neorealists treat anarchy, as a constant.and consequently it cannot explain variations in war and peace__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Levels-of-Analysis Framework Ever since Waltz (1959) classified the causes of war in terms of their origins in the individual, the nation-state, and the international system (which he labeled first-, second-, and third-image explanations, respectively), international relations theorists have agreed on the utility of the levels-of-analysis framework as an organizing device for the study of war and international behavior more generally. Some scholars have modified Waltz’s framework by collapsing the individual and nation-state levels to create a simplified dichotomy of nation (or unit) level and system level (Singer 1961, Waltz 1979), while others have disaggregated the nation-state level into distinct governmental and societal-level factors (Jervis 1976, Rosenau 1980), a practice that I follow here. Following Waltz (1959), most scholars use the levels of analysis as a framework for classifying independent variables. This leads to such questions as whether the causes of war derive primarily from the level of the international system, national societies or bureaucracies, or individual decision-makers. Although the question of which level is most important has stimulated useful debate, until recently it distracted attention from the equally important issue of how variables from different levels interact in the foreign policy process. The levels-of-analysis concept is sometimes used differently, to refer to the dependent variable, or to the type of entity whose behavior is to be explained. In this sense the systemic level of analysis refers to explanations of patterns and outcomes in the international system; the dyadic level refers to explanations of the strategic interactions between two states; the national level refers to explanations of state foreign policy behavior; the organizational level refers to explanations of the behavior of organizations; and the individual level refers to explanations of the preferences, beliefs, or choices of individuals. The failure of scholars to be explicit about exactly how they are using the levels-of-analysis concept is a source of confusion in the field. Some have erroneously interpreted Singer.s (1961, p. 92) comment that the various levels “defy theoretical integration...[and] are not immediately combinable” to suggest that analysts should not combine variables from different levels of analysis to explain foreign policy decisions or international outcomes. But Singer.s statement makes sense only if the levels of analysis are conceptualized in terms of the dependent variable. This is the familiar micro-macro problem of aggregation across levels. We cannot assume that correlations or causal connections at one level of analysis are necessarily valid at another level. It is conceivable, for example, that concentrations of power may promote peace at the dyadic level but war at the system level. This has important implications for theories of war and peace. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Although it is possible that individual- or national-level variables could be the primary causes of war, these variables do not constitute a logically complete explanation because they do not explain how individual beliefs and preferences are translated into state decisions and actions or how the strategies or behaviors of states interact to lead to war as a dyadic or systemic outcome__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. To the extent that most wars involve the mutual and interactive decisions of two or more adversaries, an explanation for the outbreak of war logically requires the inclusion of dyadic- or systemic-level variables. This does not necessarily mean, however, that these variables are the most important in terms of amount of variation explained. The levels-of-analysis framework is not the only way to organize the literature on the causes of war or on international politics more generally. It has long been fashionable for international relations theorists to frame debates in terms of the so-called paradigm wars between realism and liberalism (Baldwin 1993). In contrast to the realist focus on the struggle for power and security in an anarchic and conflictual Hobbesian world, the liberal tradition sees a more benign Grotian international society or Lockean state of nature where anarchy does not imply disorder. States have common as well as conflictual interests, aim to maximize economic welfare as well as provide for security, and create international institutions that help regulate conflict and promote cooperation (Keohane 1989). Although the paradigmatic debate between realism and liberalism has imposed some order on a chaotic field, it distracts attention from significant variations within each paradigm, variations that often lead to conflicting hypotheses. It also detracts from the important task of systematically integrating key components from each approach into a more complete and powerful theory. Furthermore, the “paradigm wars” ignore important hypotheses associated with the Marxist-Leninist tradition and saddle liberalism with charges of the neglect of power that are better associated with the utopianism of Thomas Paine and others (Walker 1998). As a field, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">international relations needs to</span>__</span>** __shift its attention from the level of paradigms to the level of theories, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">focus on</span> constructing theories and <span style="background: yellow;">testing</span> them <span style="background: yellow;">against</span> the <span style="background: yellow;">empirical evidence</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and leave the question of whether a particular approach fits into a liberal or realist framework to the intellectual historians. THEORIES OF THE CAUSES OF WAR Systemic-Level Theories The realist tradition has dominated the study of war since Thucydides, and includes Machiavellians, Hobbesians, classical balance of power theorists, Waltzian neorealists, and hegemonic transition theorists.6 Although different realist theories often generate conflicting predictions, they share a core of common assumptions: The key actors in world politics are sovereign states that act rationally to advance their security, power, and wealth in a conflictual international system that lacks a legitimate governmental authority to regulate conflicts or enforce agreements. For realists, wars can occur not only because some states prefer war to peace, but also because of unintended consequences of actions by those who prefer peace to war and are more interested in preserving their position than in enhancing it.7 Even defensively motivated efforts by states to provide for their own security through armaments, alliances, and deterrent threats are often perceived as threatening and lead to counteractions and conflict spirals that are difficult to reverse. This is the “security dilemma,” the possibility that a state’s actions to provide for its security may result in a decrease in the security of all states, including itself (Jervis 1978). Realists do not assume that international relations are always conflictual, and they have recently focused on the question of the conditions for cooperation under anarchy, often through the use of iterated Prisoner.s Dilemma models (Jervis 1978, Axelrod 1984, Grieco 1990). The iterated models are more appropriate for most situations than single-play Prisoner.s Dilemma models, and the iterated Prisoner.s Dilemma framework has generated some useful hypotheses regarding the rather restrictive conditions under which cooperation is likely. The assumption that the same game is repeated over and over is often problematic, however, particularly for security issues, because one play of the game (preemption, for example) can significantly change power relationships and affect payoffs in the next iteration. Nor is it clear that unilateral defection is always preferred to mutual cooperation; stag hunt models, in which mutual cooperation is both sides. first preference, may be more applicable in many situations (e.g. where each side fears both war and preemption by the other). There has been a tendency to apply Prisoner.s Dilemma models to many situations in which the assumptions of the model are not satisfied. The core proposition of realist theory is that the distribution of power, throughout the system or within a dyad, is the primary factor shaping international outcomes. But different versions of realist theory generate different, sometimes contradictory explanations and predictions of foreign policy choices and international outcomes, based on different assumptions about the motivations of states, the nature of power, and the identity and boundaries of the system. Given the variety of realist propositions and predictions, it is possible to interpret nearly any foreign policy behavior or international outcome as consistent with some version of realism. </span>__This is not particularly helpful, for **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">if theories are not falsifiable they have little explanatory power</span></span>**. We should treat realism as a paradigm rather than as a theory, and focus instead on specific theories that generate more determinant, testable propositions. The key division in the realist literature on war is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not the standard one between classical realism and neorealism8, but rather </span>__between balance of power theory and hegemonic theory__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Balance of power theory includes numerous variations on the classical realism of Morgenthau (1967) and the more systemic structural realism of Waltz. </span>__Hegemonic theory is a structural theory that incorporates power transition theory and hegemonic stability theory and that downplays the importance of anarchy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Balance of power theory posits the avoidance of hegemony as the primary goal of states and the maintenance of an equilibrium of power in the system as the primary instrumental goal. The theory predicts that states, and particularly great powers, will balance against those states that constitute the primary threats to their interests and particularly against any state that threatens to secure a hegemonic position.9 Balance of power theorists argue that the balancing mechanism.which includes both external alliances and internal military buildups.almost always successfully avoids hegemony, either because potential hegemons are deterred by their anticipation of a military coalition forming against them or because they are defeated in war after deterrence fails. In balance of power theory, serious threats of hegemony are a sufficient condition for the formation of a blocking coalition, which leads either to the withdrawal of the threatening power or to a hegemonic war. Balance of power theory is more concerned with explaining national strategies, the formation of blocking coalitions, the avoidance of hegemony, and the stability of the system than the origins of wars, which are underdetermined. All balance of power theorists agree that some form of equilibrium of military capabilities increases the stability of the system (generally defined as the relative absence of major wars), and that movements toward unipolarity are destabilizing because they trigger blocking coalitions and (usually) a hegemonic war to restore equilibrium. There is a major debate, however, between classical realists, who argue that stability is further supported by the presence of a multipolar distribution of power and a .flexible. alliance system (Morgenthau 1967, Gulick 1955), and neorealists, who argue that bipolarity is more stable than multipolarity (Waltz 1979, Mearsheimer 1990). Although neorealists rely heavily on polarity as a key explanatory variable, they do so with very little supporting evidence. They overgeneralize from the Cold War experience, where bipolarity is confounded with the existence of nuclear weapons and other key variables, and fail to demonstrate the validity of their arguments with respect to earlier historical eras. Although bipolarity is less common than multipolarity, it has occurred before, as illustrated by the Athens-Sparta rivalry in the fifth century BC and the Habsburg-Valois rivalry in the early sixteenth century, both of which witnessed numerous wars. Neorealists also ignore a number of quantitative studies that suggest that bipolarity is no less war-prone than multipolarity, that wars occur under a variety of structural conditions, and that polarity is not a primary causal factor in the outbreak of war (Sabrosky 1985). An important alternative to balance of power theory is </span>__power transition theory, a form of hegemonic theory that shares realist assumptions but emphasizes the existence of order within a hierarchical system__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Organski & Kugler 1980, Gilpin 1981, Thompson 1988). </span>__Hegemons commonly arise and use their strength to create a set of political and economic structures and norms of behavior that enhance the stability of the system while advancing their own security__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Differential rates of growth, the costs of imperial overextension, and the development of vested domestic interests lead to the rise and fall of hegemons, and </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the <span style="background: yellow;">probability of a major war is greatest</span> at the point <span style="background: yellow;">when the declining leader is being overtaken by the rising challenger</span>__</span>**__. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Either the challenger initiates a war to bring its benefits from the system into line with its rising military power or the declining leader initiates a “preventive war” to block the rising challenger while the chance is still available</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Levy 1989b, pp. 253.54). The resulting hegemonic war usually generates a new hegemonic power, and the irregular hegemonic cycle begins anew. Power transition theorists disagree somewhat on the precise identity of hegemonic wars and the particular causal dynamics from which they arise; for comparisons of the wars and critiques of the theories see Levy (1985) and Vasquez (1993). Although many of the theoretical analyses of power transition theory focus on transitions between the dominant state in the system and a challenger, and include conceptions of a broader international system and hierarchy, some applications of power transition theory are dyadic in nature and apply in principle to any two states in the system. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The</span>__</span>** __dyadic-level “**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">power preponderance</span>**” **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">hypothesis</span>, which holds <span style="background: yellow;">that war is least likely when one state has a preponderance of power over another</span> and is most likely when there is an equality of power, <span style="background: yellow;">has received widespread support in the empirical literature</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Kugler & Lemke 1996).</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">This is especially true when dealing with China – threat denialists overlook important material and discursive indicators of revisionist capabilities and intentions </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Siddall ‘2K**</span>__ (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The misapplication of defensive realism: the security dilemma and rising powers in East Asia,” paper presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Verdana;">The difficulty for defensive realists is that in a world with one or more greedy states, the puzzle driving the security dilemma largely disappears: the incompatibility of goals provides a straightforward </span>__[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_msocom_1|[AS1]]]<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span>[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_msocom_2|[AS2]]]__<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> explanation for competition and conflict</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">(Glaser 1997:190). Critics argue that the importance of the security dilemma in an explanatory and a predictive sense decreases when one or more of the major powers is a greedy state.</span><span style="mso-endnote-id: edn1;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn1|[i]]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> For example, the source of competition and war in many key empirical cases including the First World War, has been greed and hegemonic ambition, not insecurity (Posen 1984; Van Evera 1984; Christensen & Snyder 1990; Christensen 1997). Accounting for states’ motivations In contrast to defensive realism that fails to place great emphasis on state motivations, or if it does, attributes expansion to security seeking impetus, </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__‘motivational realism’ emphasises the existence of a variety of individual and state motivations in strategic behaviour__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn2;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn2|[ii]]]</span> This variant of neoclassical realism argues that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__not all states are merely interested in survival__</span>**__. Many powers are interested in territory, influence, power, wealth or other goals__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Schweller 1994 & 1996). Harking back to classical realist thinkers such as Hans Morgenthau, these theorists argue that anarchy in and of itself is not so bad, it only leads to problems if there are </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">aggressive states</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – those who have a desire for more land or power for instance. These ‘greedy’ states </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">make anarchy dangerous by building up</span> their <span style="background: yellow;">military forces and attempting to overturn the status quo</span>__</span>**__, possibly even preying on their neighbours__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn3;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn3|[iii]]]</span> </span>__Security seekers, in the presence of such greedy states, will have to play the power game as well by building up their forces to defend themselves__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn4;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn4|[iv]]]</span> </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Theories</span>__</span>** __such as those of the motivational school **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">that acknowledge this process</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;">, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">are</span>**</span> perhaps **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">better</span></span>** suited or **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">able to make accurate</span></span>** foreign policy **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">predictions</span> and prescriptions in an environment in which there exists a</span>** dissatisfied and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">aggressive power</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If defensive realism did not fail to take into account rising powers, then its prescriptions would prove similar to offensive realist ones. This is because for defensive realists, much depends on the nature of the situation: policies required when a status quo power faces an expansionist power are very different from the changes that could increase cooperation among status quo powers that fear one another. When dealing with aggressors, increasing cooperation is beyond reach, and the analysis and preferred policies of defensive realists differ little from those of offensive realists who see much less room for cooperation. </span>__Aggressors may be deterred or defeated but given that the security dilemma is intractable, additional information about transaction costs or offence-defence balance cannot lead to changes in preferences over strategies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jervis 1999:52). Indeed, when faced with aggressors, defensive realist policies should resemble those of offensive realists. This very important point has been confirmed by Jervis when he said …for defensive realists, diagnosis of the situation and other’s objectives is a crucial and difficult step, which explains why analysts of this type come to different policy prescriptions if they have different views of the adversary (Jervis 1999:52).<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn5;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn5|[v]]]</span> </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Misdiagnoses can have disastrous consequences</span>__</span>** __in the realm of state security__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is most evident in defensive realism’s failure to take adequate account of the effect of rising or non-status quo powers on the security environment. When US policy-makers continue to formulate policy based around defensive realist predictions for an offense-dominant environment they are misapplying defensive realism to the region. For although </span>__these predictions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> recognise offense-dominant environments, they apply only to situations in which all states are security seekers. They </span>__cannot account for non-status quo or greedy powers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This continued misapplication of defensive realism has resulted in a dangerous distortion of US foreign policy which maybe ultimately harmful to US national interests. Assessing state motivation: how to distinguish a revisionist power </span>__Offensive realists claim that motivations are unobservable and hence security seekers will never know if they face security seekers or not. States treat all states alike, and seek relative power as proxy for security__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This completely ignores the possibility of signaling intentions. Defensive realists on the other hand, assert that the search for security does not always cause conflict because state motivations can sometimes be signaled under certain favourable conditions. The central focus is therefore on the offence-defence distinction. When security favours the defence, security seekers will favour defensive weapons while aggressive powers will choose offensive weapons. It is for this reason that Charles Glaser terms it ‘contingent realism’ (Glaser 1994-95). Kydd argues that neoclassical realists overestimate the difficulty of assessing state motivation. While he looks at modern democratic states in particular, </span>__it is possible to derive two criteria **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">to assess</span></span>** any state’s **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">motivation</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. These include: 1) </span>__preference revelation; and__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 2) </span>__costly signals__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Kydd 1997:129-151). </span>__These criteria will be used to assess whether common perceptions of China as a rising and dissatisfied power are indeed accurate. In modern democracies the policy process is so transparent that the first criteria, preference revelation, is easy to satisfy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is relatively simple to decide if the state is a security seeker or otherwise (Kydd 1997:129-139). </span>__This **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">is not</span></span>** so **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">simple in a</span></span>**n**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> authoritarian</span>** and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">closed</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">state such as the PRC</span>**</span> that does not believe in transparency, electoral processes or public information. It is for this reason that realists claim **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">capabilities should be the guide</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Nevertheless, even authoritarian, non-democratic states can use ‘costly signals’ to reinforce messages about their preferences as benign security seekers. </span>__This is not to say that aggressive states do not seek to persuade others that they are security seekers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Hitler’s protestations of lack of territorial ambition after each new conquest are the classic example of this. Hence </span>__rhetorical statements in and of themselves are of little help__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. However, statements in conjunction with reassurance signals can be effective. For example, a state might be considered aggressive because its leadership propounds an extreme, intolerant and messianic ideology. Such states are often feared by their neighbours because of the suspicion that they might want to impose their ideological systems upon them. For states that are perceived as aggressive for this reason, ideological moderation might be persuasive in signaling benign intent (Kydd 1997:141). For example, </span>__should China renounce the right to use force to solve the Taiwan issue, or even move to a more democratic domestic ideology, this might signal that China is a security seeker and not an irredentist power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn6;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn6|[vi]]]</span> It could also decrease tensions occasioned by China’s extraordinary levels of economic growth. </span>__Nevertheless, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">to date <span style="background: yellow;">China</span>’s strategic behaviour indicates that it <span style="background: yellow;">is diverting substantial resources</span></span>** away from its primary strategic interest – its land borders – **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">towards naval power projection</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (You & You 1991; You 1999). </span>__Furthermore, in its recent White Paper on the ‘One China’ policy, the PRC reaffirmed its willingness to use force, and indicated its increasing impatience and displeasure with Taiwan’s attempts to stall reunification talks__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (PRC 2000)<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn7;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn7|[vii]]]</span>. While it did not undertake missile tests similar to those during the 1996 Taiwanese elections during the March 2000 elections, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the PRC’s <span style="background: yellow;">inflated rhetoric, in combination with</span> its <span style="background: yellow;">increasing</span> strategic <span style="background: yellow;">capabilities</span>__</span>** __could in fact **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">signal that it is moving away from being a status quo power</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Another method of signaling__</span>** __motivation or **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">intention is</span>** a state’s **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">policy towards weaker states</span>**. Aggressive states will often want to dominate neighbouring states__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, if not physically, then perhaps politically. By respecting the autonomy of weaker states, and freedom within its acknowledged sphere of influence of the state, a security seeking power can signal that it is uninterested in conquest and domination for its own sake (Kydd 1997:143). </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Territorial disputes</span> involving China are__</span>** __among **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the region’s most intractable, with Taiwan, the Senkaku and Spratly Islands valued far beyond any economic or strategic value they hold</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A central reason for this dominance is that territorial claims are central to the re-legitimisation efforts of the current post-Deng regime. </span>__Consequently, it is possible to view **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">actions <span style="background: yellow;">such as</span></span>** China’s passing of the 1992 Ocean Law restating **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">its claim to the entire South China Sea</span></span>** as designed to promote China’s comprehensive national power and gratify nationalist aspirations by shoring up territorial and sovereignty disputes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (You 1995:390; Forney & Yatsko 1998; Khalilzad et al 1999:9). Similarly, the PRC’s occupation of Mischief Reef in 1995 can be viewed in an internal context (Tiglao 1994:20-21; Tasker 1995; FEER 1995:5). Nevertheless, </span>__these actions **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">have</span> only <span style="background: yellow;">served to heighten US perceptions of an expansionist and disruptive China</span></span>**. While it is possible that these perceptions may be overstated, it is apparent that China is increasingly determined to maintain its hold on territory already claimed__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As discussed above, the offence-defence balance provides another method of signaling intention since decision-makers often draw inferences about an adversary’s intentions from its military posture. They frequently assume that the arms of others indicate aggressive intentions. </span>__The offence-defence balance in East Asia has been effected in recent years by two developments. First, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">pre-<span style="background: yellow;">existing US perceptions of China as threatening have been heightened by the offensive nature of</span> China’s military <span style="background: yellow;">acquisitions</span></span>**. Many weapon systems recently acquired have a strike capability, are for long-range operations, and include rapid force projection capabilities__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (You & You 1991; You 1995: 382-385; Shambaugh 1996; Zeng 1996:13; Simon 1998:67; You 1999:105). </span>__Further **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">improvements to PRC <span style="background: yellow;">ballistic missile</span></span>**<span style="background: yellow;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and</span>**</span> strategic **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">nuclear</span></span>** warhead **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">capability</span></span>** are also foreseen__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Galen Carpenter 1998:9). </span>__Moreover, these offensive weapons platforms **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">are accompanied by an offensive force doctrine</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) is being restructured from a fundamentally defensive force to a force with both defensive and offensive capabilities (You 1999:105). In addition, the fact that </span>__most modern weapons can be simultaneously offensive and defensive, depending on the intention with which they are used, means that differentiation is difficult__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> <span style="mso-endnote-id: edn8;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn8|[viii]]]</span>, </span>__which tends to favour the offence since **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">states favour worst case planning ‘to be on the safe side’</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The second development that has altered the offence-defence balance has been the debate within the US over deployment of missile defences. While defensive realists argue that defensive systems should not provoke arms races and spirals of tension, this logic is less applicable in contemporary East Asia. Many in the region, particularly in Beijing, fear that new defensive roles for Japan, including co-development, and co-deployment of TMD, could break important norms of self-restraint, leading to more comprehensive Japanese military buildups at a later stage, and fueling pre-existing Chinese-Japanese tensions (Christensen 1999:51; Daalder, Goldgeier & Lindsay 2000:15; Gill & Mulvenon 2000:3; Manning, Montaperto & Roberts 2000). Although technology appears to have given offence the advantage, it must be noted that the PLA’s ambitious doctrinal desires presently lie in sharp contrast to its severely limited capabilities. It is thought that the PLA’s current weapons inventory remains twenty to thirty years behind the state-of-the-art in almost all categories, although efforts are being made, particularly as regards air power (Shambaugh 1991:16; Shambaugh 1996; You 1999). This is due to the low priority given to military modernisation prior to the 1990s. It is thought that China will lack the airlift and sealift capability vital for power projection and rapid deployment from probably two decades or more (Shambaugh 1991:16). Consequently, while China has an offensive force doctrine, its offensive capability will remain limited, and consequently offence will not have the advantage, at least in the short to medium term (You 1999:111). Nevertheless, it is necessary to consider geography, the other factor that determines the balance and hence the intensity of the security dilemma. Christensen (1999 & 2000) believes that the geography of the East Asian region will intensify the security dilemma. However, it is arguable that this represents a misapplication of the theory. Ross argues that this very same geography, which he characterises as a bipolar division into maritime and continental spheres of influence, will in fact dampen tensions (Ross 1999). For example, the Taiwan Strait stalemate is formed by mutual conventional deterrence: the mainland deters Taiwan with its land power, and the United States deters China with its maritime power. Because the theatre is defence dominant, the risk of war is minimal. On balance I would argue that this characterisation is too simplistic, and that </span>__the history of distrust evident between China and Japan, and Japan and South Korea will ensure that the geography of the region incites, rather than depresses tensions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In sum, I have argued that despite difficulties in offence-defence differentiation and offensive acquisitions in China, over the long-term, offence will gain the advantage. This does not send positive signals to the region about China’s intent, or the possibilities of regional stability. China is a rising power As mentioned above, </span>__uncertainty about whether the other state is motivated by security or greed will increase the adversary’s insecurity, which in turn will reduce the state’s own security. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Since <span style="background: yellow;">this drives worst-case foreign policy</span></span>** analysis and formulation, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">realists, and indeed common sense, suggest that states should be very interested in demonstrating to others that their motives are benign</span>**. Consequently, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">in the absence of any signal to the contrary, and</span></span>** arguably **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">many signals that it is indeed expansionist</span>, it is logical for <span style="background: yellow;">policy makers</span> to <span style="background: yellow;">assume</span> that <span style="background: yellow;">China is a rising and dissatisfied power</span></span>**. This very conclusion is the reason that regional actors view with concern the rise of Chinese power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Friedberg 1993-94). The insecurity engendered by these rising capabilities and uncertain intentions, particularly those engendered by China’s military expenditure<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn9;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn9|[ix]]]</span>, is already evident in the general credibility given to the idea of a ‘China Threat’ in US policy and academic circles (Bernstein & Munro 1997).<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn10;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn10|[x]]]</span> US policy: misapplication of realism </span>__Defensive__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> realist </span>__policies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> are based upon interactions between status quo security seekers. Generally, therefore, they </span>__agree that a tough stance may provoke the non-aggressive adversary, increase tension, and induce an insecurity spiral, while a conciliatory policy may have the desirable effect of resolving conflict and reducing tension with an essentially nonaggressive adversary. In contrast, when dealing with an expansionist opponent, a policy of firmness promises the desirable effects of deterring him and enhancing one’s own reputation for resolve, while a policy of conciliation may encourage him to make further demands in the belief that one lacks resolve__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Snyder 1984:470). </span>__Given that the explanatory power of the security dilemma decreases when adversaries are greedier, the continued application of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> defensive realism’s cautionary </span>__policies of reassurance, designed to avoid intensifying spirals of conflict, become at best less helpful, and at worst potentially disastrous if they encourage aggressive states to exploit military advantages. The inapplicability of defensive__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> realist </span>__prescriptions in this situation also reduces states’ potential to control crisis situations. This means the probability of war in Asia could be far greater than offence-defence theorists suggest__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, Robert Ross’ (1999) optimistic assessment of the future of Asia relies on the judgement that the offence- defence balance, heavily influenced by the geography of the region to favour the defence, is relevant even </span>__when dealing with an aggressive power such as China__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the East Asian region, China could view US policies designed to signal benign security motives, such as a conscious decision not to deploy permanent theatre missile defences in Asia, as indicative of China’s strength, and US lack of resolve in the face of that influence. Any such policy would be dangerous, inviting a non-status quo China to exploit the military advantages of such a policy, and encouraging Beijing to make further demands. For example, China could increase its ballistic missile capability for striking at the US homeland, and demand that the US remove all forward deployed troops. After concluding that China is a rising or non-status quo power, it follows that prescriptions for ameliorating security dilemmas in which it plays a role, such as adopting defensive force postures and clearly differentiating between offensive and defensive force acquisitions, will be ineffective since states will not dare to adopt such postures for fear of exploitation. Consequently, it is argued that the status quo bias of security dilemma theory makes it an inadequate explanatory framework for the region and the US-China relationship. To the extent that security dilemma is used by policy elites to understand and analysis the US-China relationship, then US foreign policy has been distorted by the misapplication of realism. Conclusions: alternate policy formulations Many policy options to deal with China have been proposed, however, most fall into either the category of containment or engagement (Shambaugh Segal ). I argue that in order to remedy this misapplication, </span>__a policy of firmness towards dissatisfied powers such as China promises the desirable effects of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">deterring it</span>** and enhancing one’s own reputation for resolve. Firmness does not, however, necessarily equate with a policy of containment__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn11;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn11|[xi]]]</span> </span>__Instead, it is suggested that some combination of engagement and containment might be possible to preserve some of the hope of the engagement policy, while hedging against its possible inability to discourage China from challenging US interests and objectives__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Such a ‘third way’ has been proposed by a recent RAND report entitled The United States and a Rising China: Strategic and Military Implications (Khalilzad et al 1999). </span>__This policy option, coined ‘congagement’, would continue to try to bring China into the current international system, while both preparing for a Chinese challenge to it, and seeking to convince the Chinese leadership that a challenge would be difficult to prepare and extremely risky to pursue__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Similar strategies, alternatively labeled ‘conditioning’ (Byman et al 1999) and ‘constrainment’ (Segal 1996) have also emerged. </span>__Such hedging policies all have one thing in common: their ultimate goal is to change China’s behaviour, but their approach is more direct engagement. While there is a place for continued, but modified engagement and the strengthening of ties with regional countries, the underlying assumption is a more important one: there is a need to sharpen the fundamental choice the Chinese leadership faces – cooperation with the current international system, as opposed to challenging the US world role and pursuing regional hegemony. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Rather than hoping for a transformation of China’s attitudes</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, conditioning or </span>__‘congagement’ **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">seeks a China whose behaviour does not violate US interests</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Byman et al 1999: 428). Under such a hedging policy, the US would use diplomacy, economic measures and, if necessary, force in order to ensure that its regional interests are protected. </span>__To some extent, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">this policy is already implemented by US </span>**foreign **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">policy-makers</span>**. The US security presence in East Asia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, made more durable by the US’ revitalisation of its alliance with Japan in 1996 and 1997, </span>__is fundamental in convincing China that using force would be counterproductive, and hedging against the possibility that a rising China will become bellicose. If China engaged in threatening actions, the US would respond by increasing its military presence, further strengthening its regional security relationships, or taking other actions to counter Chinese moves__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It has been suggested by Byman et al that the key to any hedging strategy would be to prioritise US goals, and communicate this to China, and setting up a rewards and punishment system accordingly (1999:429). I have clearly based my analysis on assumptions that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__China’s__ </span>**__longterm**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> ambitions are expansionary in nature</span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. While I believe that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">the weight of evidence suggests this to be the case</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I do recognise that should China turn out to be a status quo power, then a more assertive and less ambiguous policy than the US is now pursuing may create antagonism where none would have existed. Nevertheless, I would also argue that ‘conditioning’ or </span>__‘congagement’ allows the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__to respond to aggressive moves by China without precluding cooperation in the meantime__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Such a policy is particularly important and opportune at this moment, considering the worsening relationship between Washington and Beijing at the beginning of the twenty-first century.<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn12;">[[Full Text Highlighted 1AC - FFL State#_edn12|[xii]]]</span> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">And with Iran – the balance of capabilities, intentions, and empirics proves containment and deterrence is the only way to prevent conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">__<span style="background: yellow;">**Prifti ‘10**</span>__ (Bledar Prifti, M.A. candidate, Department of Government and International Affairs, University of South Florida, “The Security and Foreign Policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran: An Offensive Realism Perspective,” thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of degree requirements, 2010, http://digital.lib.usf.edu:8080/fedora/get/usfldc:E14-SFE0003317/DOCUMENT) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The case studies analyzed above indicate that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Iran‘s security and foreign policy</span>__</span>** __during the post-Shah era **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">is driven by its paramount need for survival and its quest for regional hegemony in the Middle East</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. There are no major policy differences between the today‘s Iran, the Iran we have seen throughout its history, and any state in the international community. </span>__Iran behaves like any other state in the international system__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Iran-Iraq war revealed that both countries possessed significant military capabilities that could harm each other. It was the shift in the balance of power favoring Iraq and its desire to become a regional hegemony that created the premises for Iraq to attack Iran. In addition, the attack enforced the assumption that states can never be certain about the intentions of the other states, even after signing agreements like the 1975 Algiers Agreement. Furthermore, </span>__Iran's ultimate ideology of survival dominated any other ideological predisposition. The need for survival led leaders of the Islamic Iran to entering in secret negotiations with countries they considered the Great and the Small Satans. These negotiations helped Iran increase its military capabilities in order to survive the Iraqi invasion__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In addition, during the Russian-Chechen conflict, Iran sided with the Christian Russia and considered the conflict an ―internal affair</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 7pt;">‖</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Iran calculated and feared that a support for its Muslim brothers in Chechnya would cause Russia to stop providing military assistance and military-related technology that Iran so desperately needed. In 115 addition, in supporting the Chechen separatist movement, Iran would inadvertently encourage the Azeri separatist movement in Northwestern Iran. Iran also feared that Russia, in retaliation, would support the separatist movements in Iran. Thus, the main strategy leading the security and foreign policy of the Islamic Iran toward the Russian-Chechen conflict was to enhance its military capabilities and to prevent any separatist movements across. The paramount goal leading to this strategy was the survival of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its sovereignty, and the ambition to become hegemony. Moreover, during the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict, the Islamic Iran sided with the Christian Armenians rather than with its Muslim brothers in Azerbaijan. This policy was due to Iran‘s fear that the newly independent Republic of Azerbaijan could claim the rights over the Azeri province in the northern Iran, or what they called the Southern Azerbaijan. In addition, Iran feared a possible involvement of the neighboring states and of the U.S. in destabilizing and weakening Iran. Iran feared that Turkey might assume, under the support and blessing from the United States, the role that Iran had previously maintained in the Middle East during the Shah era. Finally, Iran‘s policy toward the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict was shaped by Iran‘s need to have close relationship with its strategic partner, Russia. Finally, </span>__during the U.S. invasion of Iraq, the Islamic government of Iran launched strategies which aimed at diminishing and obstructing the U.S. military influence and presence in the region. Iran considered the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__a serious threat to its regime and national security and interests. The Iranians were aware of the military power of the U.S and the impact that it would have if the Americans established permanent military bases in Iraq. Permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq would mean permanent threat to Iran‘s__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 116 </span>__national security and interests in the region__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Referring to the above case studies, we may realize that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Iran sees the intentions of other states with deep suspicions</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, </span>__Iran sees the U.S. foreign policy more as a threat to its regime survival rather than a behavior change__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Iranian past history of occupations from foreigner states, especially the modern Iraq—Iran war of 1980s, make Iran more suspicious of states‘ intentions. </span>__Iran has come to realize that in an anarchic international system of politics, survival through self-help is all what matters__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The ultimate ideology of survival is superior to any other ideology. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Iran also believes that in order to survive, a state should have formidable military capabilities and endeavor to shift the balance of power based on its interests</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The nuclear program would give Iran a regional hegemonic status, ensured survival, deterrence power, and bargaining power over regional and global matters. Thus, Iran is not different from other states within the international system. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">It bases its security and foreign policy on a rational choice analysis</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. However, Iran should be aware of constraints that the international system puts on its behavior. Iran should also be aware of the fact that U.S and Russia behave the same way as Iran does. Thus, neither U.S. nor Russia would accept a nuclear Iran. A nuclear Iran would challenge the U.S. interests in the region and would seriously jeopardize the territorial security of its neighboring Russia. In order to prevail, Iran should implement certain policies that would allow it to reach its goals. Having put the international community and the U.S. policy in an uncertain position, the Iranian government should send a message to the global community indicating that it is willing to cooperate and talk about its nuclear activity. In addition, seeing that the Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) does not prohibit Iran from pursuing nuclear capability 117 for economic purpose, it is imperative for Iran to lower its rhetoric against the state of Israel and focus on the legal aspect of its nuclear activity. Iran has to realize that there is no great power in the international system that would accept another nuclear power. Thus, is should aim at building its nuclear capability, while the others will try to stop this from happening. However, Iran should not push too hard for this goal because it may risk an attack from U.S. and other powers. Israel also would be in alert and willing to take unilateral actions against Iran in case of a perceived and imminent threat. The best way for Iran to pursue its goal is to use the current balance of power to achieve its goal. This means that Iran may use its policy to have other powers confronting each other. For example, Iran may find a way or a strategy to put Russia, China, and U.S. in different positions and pursuing different interests, while not ignoring the influence of other states in the region. This will make them reach no consensus over Iran‘s nuclear program. A consensus among great powers regarding Iran‘s nuclear activity would be very unfortunate for Iran. In addition, Iran should pursue a regional policy of cooperation with other countries in the region. It should not publicly call for the overthrown of other regimes but should implement the strategy of ―divide and conquer</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 7pt;">‖</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Iran may also continue the use of the bait and bleed and bloodletting strategies of gaining power. Iran must also be careful that its strategies do not compromise or jeopardize its domestic base of support. Regarding the American, Israeli, Russian approach toward Iran, </span>__it is imperative to understand and assume that Iran‘s goal is to become a regional hegemony and build a nuclear arsenal__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In confronting Iran, U.S. should be cautious to not fall in the trap of the Iranian policy and portray itself as the ―police of the world</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 7pt;">‖</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. To reach this goal, U.S. 118 should provide incentives for the engagement of the international community in Middle East issues. One particular strategy should focus on dealing with a productive engagement of great powers like Russia and China. The goal is to use the United Nation (through the Security Council) as the main actor dealing with Iran. U.S. should emphasize concerns about the Iranian nuclear activity and provide benefits for these powers in case they succeed in stopping Iran. In addition, U.S. should use regional states to force Iran stop its nuclear activity. It should emphasize that a nuclear Iran is a threat to all states in the region. The best strategy would be the formation of an anti-nuclear-Iran regional coalition. Finally, U.S. should use the domestic factions in Iran to gain more intelligence and to decelerate the pace of the nuclear activity. One example is the decision of the European Union to take the People‟s Mojahideen Organization (PMOI) of Iran off the list of terrorist organization and unfreeze its assets. As staunch opponent of the Iranian theocratic regime, PMOI has promised to provide (and has provided) intelligence regarding the Iran‘s nuclear activity and help overthrow the regime. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">Regardless of the circumstances, both U.S. and Iran will not abandon their paramount goals. Iran will not stop pursuing its ultimate ideology of survival and the need</span>__</span>** __(quest) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">to be a regional hegemony. U.S. just cannot accept a regional hegemony in the Middle East that would threaten</span></span>**ed **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: yellow;">its regional and global status</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Meanwhile, Russia will support Iran to that extent that Iran itself does not become a threat to the security and interests of Russia. Russia will continue to provide nuclear support to Iran as a way to challenge the U.S. interests in the Middle East, but it will never allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon. Facing U.S. and Russia, Iran should play the role that it once played with Russia and Great Britain in the nineteenth 119 century. Meanwhile, Iran should be cautious to not promote policies that would cause U.S. and Russia to cooperate with each other. </span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: endnote-list;">[[#_msocom_2]] </span>