[[toc]]
=<span class="Underline">**Port Dredging Affirmative**</span>= 
<span class="Underline">**The "Other 1AC Cards" Sections are cards that were __previously__ in the 1AC but are no longer. The "1AC " Sections are the current 1AC's.**</span>
==<span class="Underline">**1AC**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1AC Inherency**</span>=== 
**<span class="Underline">No DA’s – Status quo port improvements are failing, and the plan’s still necessary</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Whitefield 4/17/13** (Mimi staff writer for the Miami Herald “Port executives say a funding gap for port upgrades could hurt U.S. competitiveness” http://www.miamiherald.com/2013/04/17/3349843/port-executives-say-a-funding.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">As work on expansion of the Panama Canal…of Army Corps studies or funding.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The status quo doesn’t solve – dredging minor ports is key to prevent congestion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Below-average depths at our deepwater ports…import/export shipping to the rest of the U.S.”</span>

====<span class="Underline">Other 1AC Cards</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**No DA’s – Status quo port improvements are failing, and the plan’s still necessary**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NYT, 8/20/12** (John Schwartz – staff writer, August 20, 2012, “Panama Canal’s Growth Prompts U.S. Ports to Expand,” The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/21/us/us-ports-seek-to-lure-big-ships-after-panama-canal-expands.html?partner=rss&emc=rss)</span>
<span class="Underline">BALTIMORE — The four cranes rise grandly…Canal, and from South America’s eastern ports.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No DA’s – Status quo port improvements are failing, and the plan’s still necessary**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Natale 1/31/13** ( Patrick Executive Director, American Society of Civil Engineers “ We Need $30.2 Billion by 2020” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2013/01/ports-matter-too.php) </span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that…international commerce possible, and they deserve our attention. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Economy Advantage [Niles/Georgetown]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The US is not ready for Panama Canal expansion – that will increase costs and collapse competitiveness and economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**ASCE 9/13** – American Society of Civil Engineers (This report was prepared for the American Society of Civil Engineers by Economic Development Research Group, Inc. The report was funded by a generous grant from the ASCE Foundation, 9/13/12, FAiluRE to ACt The economic impacT Of current Investment trends In Airports, inlAnd WAterWAys, And MArine ports Infrastructure, http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Failure_to_Act/Failure%20To%20Act%20Ports%20Economic%20Report.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Trend Towards larger Vessels The performance of today’s U.S. marine…funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to retain foreign customers**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Calhoun, 11** – President, Cargo Carriers (Cargill), Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc. (Rick, August 2011, “Dredging for Prosperity,” Marine Log, http://www.nxtbook.com/nxtbooks/sb/ml0811/index.php?startid=7&qs=DREDGING+FOR+PROSPERITY#/8)</span>
<span class="Underline">Just like the nation itself, our…future of our inland waterways transportation system.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal regulations mean new projects will take decades unless the federal government expedites construction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nagle, 12** – President and CEO, American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., March 7, 2012, “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">First, the funding level of the Corps of…meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal investment in port deepening is key to an increased role in the global economy and trade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kiefer et al, 2k** (Jack, Principal Investigator, Planning and Management Consultants, Ltd., *AND Stuart Norvell, economist with PMCL, *AND Edward Cohn, independent subcontractor, *AND Robert A. Pietrowsky, Director, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Phillip J. Thorpe, Senior Economist, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Kenneth E. Lichtman, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Christine M. Brayman, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Patricia L. Mutschler, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Richard T. Worthington, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Raleigh H. Leef, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, May 2000, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors: Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry,” http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">International trade has become increasingly important…and need to be updated for the 21st Century.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Economic crises trigger war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Royal, 10** — Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, 2010 “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises?,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span class="Underline">Less intuitive is how periods of economic…be considered ancillary to those views</span>

<span class="Underline">**US economic decline: perceptual weakness leads to nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Hanlon, 12** (Kenneth Lieberthal, Director of the China Center, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “The Real National Security Threat: America’s Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 3, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/03/opinion/la-oe-ohanlon-fiscal-reform-20120703)</span>
<span class="Underline">Lastly, American economic weakness undercuts U.S. leadership…stable. Major war will become more likely.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Ports are the key internal link to preserve U.S. strength in international trade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bookman, 96** – Director, Marine Institute, National Research Council (Charles, Fall 1996, “U.S. seaports: At the crossroads of the global economy,” Issues in Science and Technology, 13. 1 (Fall 1996): 71, ProQuest)</span>
<span class="Underline">Shallow, congested, and technologically lagging, U.S. seaports…to these problems on a national scale. </span>

<span class="Underline">**U.S. strength in international trade is the vital internal link to free trade – the alternative is chaos and catastrophe**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Panitchpakdi, 04** (DG Supachai, Secretary General for the UN conference on Trade and Development, February 26, 2004, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?,” World Trade Organization, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm) </span>
<span class="Underline">I can sum up my message today…of rules. All of these were America’s objectives. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The alternative is mercantilism and protectionism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Posen, 09** – Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, 2009, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” Global Power Revisited, pp. 11-14, http://www.alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de/downloads/FS_USA_09_GlobalPowerRevisited.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Though the relative rise of the major…should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Panzner, 08** – New York Institute of Finance (Michael J., 2008, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, pp. 137-138)</span>
<span class="Underline">The rise in isolationism and protectionism will…as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Other 1AC Cards</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**The Panama Canal expansion will fundamentally change seaborne commerce – US ports require new harbor deepening or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bridges, 11** – Chairman, Board of the American Association of Port Authorities, Executive Director, Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., October 26, 2011, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?,” http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the birth of our nation, U.S.…including landside and waterside access to seaports. We cannot wait. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Free trade creates structural disincentives for war – empirics prove**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Griswold, 11** – Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute (Daniel, 2011, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Our more globalized world has also…be destroyed by civil conflict and war. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Growth eliminates the rational incentives for war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gartzke, 11** – Ph.D., Associate Professor, Political Science, University of California, San Diego (Erik, February 9, 2011, “Security in an Insecure World,” Cato Institute, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Almost as informative as the decline in…that war becomes a durable anachronism. </span>

<span class="Underline">**American economic collapse causes great power war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tilford, 08** – Ph.D., Analyst, U.S. Air Force and Army (Earl, October 6, 2008, “Critical mass: economic leadership or dictatorship,” Center for Vision & Values, Grove City College, http://www.visionandvalues.org/2008/10/critical-mass-economic-leadership-or-dictatorship/)</span>
<span class="Underline">If the American economy collapses, especially in…could devolve to that point very quickly. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Deployment Advantage**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Commercial port infrastructure’s key for surge deployments – congestion reduces rapid response**</span>
<span class="Underline">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The addition of military mobilization to normal…on locally and Federally funded improvement programs. </span>

<span class="Underline">**That’s the critical internal link into sealift effectiveness**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AAPA, 03** (American Association of Port Authorities, Fall 2003, “The Impact of War & Terrorism,” Seaports Magazine, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Vital national efforts such as military…than those associated with Operation Desert Storm in 1991.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Military readiness solves conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Spencer, 2k** — policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation (Jack, Heritage Foundation Reports, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">The evidence indicates that the U.S. armed…vital national interest, thereby preserving peace. </span>

<span class="Underline">**American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression---that’s especially true in the context of Taiwan and China and on the Korean Peninsula**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gerson, 09** – Research Analyst, Center for Naval Analyses (Michael S., Fall 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">This article seeks to expand the current debate…provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Deterrence solves war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lupovici, 8** (Amir is a Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto, Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it…more stable expectations of avoiding violence.</span>

<span class="Underline">**War over Taiwan is the only scenario for extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tucker, 05** – Professor, Georgetown University (Nancy, 2005, “Dangerous Strait: the U.S.—Taiwan—China crisis,” Google Books)</span>
<span class="Underline">At the beginning of this new century, nowhere…that will meet with the assent of the people of Taiwan. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Korean conflict leads to global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stratfor 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula) </span>
<span class="Underline">Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is…be if the situation escalates much further. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Lack of dredging severely limits naval operations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Lack of attention to port maintenance and…restrict military or significant commercial cargo. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Naval power solves major power wars**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conway et al, 07** (James T., Former General, U.S. Marine Corps, *AND Gary Roughead, Former Admiral, U.S. Navy, *AND Thad W. Allen, Former Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Deter major power war. No other disruption…projection enable extended campaigns ashore.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Naval power solves all conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**England et. al, 11** (By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)</span>
<span class="Underline">All our citizens, and especially our servicemen and…need to meet the challenges of the future.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Other 1AC Cards</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Naval power puts a cap on conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NLUS, 12** – a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/2012, http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, world…in the future must be a national imperative. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Manufacturing Advantage**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It’s on the brink now --- structural decline nullifies resiliency --- this will devastate innovation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nash-Hoff 12** (Michele Nash-Hoff, Founder and President at ElectroFab Sales, author of “Can American Manufacturing be Saved? Why we should and how we can”; “American Manufacturing Has Declined More Than Most Experts Have Thought,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michele-nashhoff/manufacturing-jobs_b_1382704.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">A new report released by the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF) presents a strong case that manufacturing has declined more during the last decade…innovation jobs (for example, research and design) will not thrive."</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan saves the industry --- we’ll isolate two internal links**</span>

<span class="Underline">**First is the Great Lakes –**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Great Lakes Dredging is needed now---lack of congressional funding makes the ports unusable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barret and Porter 9/30/12** (Joe and Caroline staff writers for the Wall Street Journal “ Drought Hits Shippers on Great Lakes” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444752504578024920103784566.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Midwest drought is lowering water levels in Lake…to find out" if the water will come back.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Efficient Great Lake Ports are key to the manufacturing industry--- high costs decimate the industry**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Army Corps 6** (The united States Army Corps of engineers “Great Lakes Navigation System: Economic Strength to the Nation” http://www.lre.usace.army.mil/ETSPubs/HFS/Great%20Lakes%20Navigation-Economic%20Strength%20to%20the%20Nation.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">In 2006, approximately 173 million tons of … to these industries such as auto manufacturing.</span>

<span class="Underline"><sometimes we read this card></span>
<span class="Underline">**They’re key to manufacturing --- efficiency and light-loading are critical**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Transportation Institute 9** (Transportation Institute, national group of experts that monitors and contributes to maritime transportation policy, “Great Lakes Dredging Crisis,” August 15, 2009, http://www.trans-inst.org/great-lakes-dredging.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The nation’s Great Lakes region is a prominent … ports rather than of a cohesive system.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Second --- the Gulf Coast --- these ports are perfect import gateways for revitalizing manufacturing --- port deepening is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Partridge 09** – freelance writer and editor who contributes to numerous business, trade, and regional magazines and websites (Amy Roach, “The Gulf Coast's Rising Tide” Inbound Logistics, January 2009, http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/the-gulf-coasts-rising-tide/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Gulf Coast's international-trade-friendly…ships," says Pat Younger of the Gulf Ports Association.</span>

====Agriculture Scenario==== 

<span class="Underline">**Manufacturing industry is key to agricultural technology advances and precision farming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lind and Freeman 12** (Michael Lind, policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Joshua Freedman, program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” New America Foundation, April 2012, http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Advanced manufacturing is not limited to new…brochure looks like a consumer electronics guide.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Two impacts ---**</span>

<span class="Underline">**First --- agricultural technology advances solve extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Trewavas, 2k** (Anthony, Professor at the Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh, “GM IS the Best Option We Have”, http://www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">In 535A.D. a volcano near the present Krakatoa…be the only buffer between us and annihilation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Second --- efficient and precise farming solves extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lugar 2k** (Richard, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, “calls for a new green revolution to combat global warming and reduce world instability,” pg online @ http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in…of people and the health of our planet.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Bioterrorism Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Bioterrorism is likely --- it can be done from scratch --- manufacturing capabilities are key to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maurer, 7** (Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. Director of the Goldman School Project at the University of California, Berkeley on Information Technology and Homeland Security Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007)</span>
<span class="Underline">The new realities of terrorism and suicide bombers pull us…malevolent viruses and microbial organisms. Time is running out.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Also bolster detection and neutralization capability --- manufacturing base is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morgan 03** (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson, Organic Materials Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review” September 2003, http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps the most unique and advantageous…expertise to contribute to any one of these fields.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Matheny, 7** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be…the beneﬁts do not seem to be worth the risks.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Now is key --- new gene synthesis technology makes it feasible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jordans 11** (Frank Jordans, Associated Press, “Clinton Warns of Bioweapon Threat from Gene Tech,” NBC News, December 7, 2011, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.UGI1ZI2PXd2)</span>
<span class="Underline">GENEVA — New gene assembly technology that offers great…epidemic portrayed in the Hollywood thriller "Contagion."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Independently, new viral strains cause extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Darling 12** (Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling, Seattle's Big Blog, “9 Strange Ways the World Really Might End,” http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment, Washington State University)</span>
<span class="Underline">Our body is in constant competition with a…very survival of our species could be threatened.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Deterrence Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Manufacturing deters all war and solves the escalation of conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Hanlon 11** (Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon)</span>
<span class="Underline">The current wave of defense cuts is also…opportunities for the United States in a globalized marketplace.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Multiple hotspots make our manufacturing base key --- these go nuclear**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Watts 08** (Barry D Watts, Senior Fellow, The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” CBA, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the 1950s, the US defense industrial base has been a…ahead as it has been since the 1950s.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No defense --- collapse of the perception of readiness leads to miscalculation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cooper 07** (Horace Cooper, Senior Fellow and deputy director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, “Making it in America”, April 04, 2007, http://www.americanmanufacturing.org/articles/making-it-america)</span>
<span class="Underline">But perhaps greater than the economic disruption in the…has led to much of the high standard of living we Americans take for granted.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Nanotechnology Leadership Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Restoring the manufacturing base reinstates US nanotech leadership --- refines and improves both product and process**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jacobson 05** (Ken Jacobson, Manufacturing and Technology News, “Lack of Manufacturing Base Imperils U.S. Lead in Nanotechnology” Vol. 12, No. 13, July 8, 2005, http://www.manufacturingnews.com/news/05/0708/art1.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">But the three did agree in their fundamental assessment…commercialize and manufacture the set of technologies that we can here."</span>

<span class="Underline">**That solves extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Navrozov 04** (Lev Navrozov, Special to World Tribune, Winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for Outstanding Intellectual Achievements, “The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology ‘Plans Ahead,’” http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2004/lev2_06.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Similarly, two countries can develop molecular nano assemblers: the…world. Surely this is better than the nano annihilation..”</span>

====<span class="Underline">Medicine Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Manufacturing solves disease --- it’s key to medical industry efficiency as well as early detection**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lind and Freeman 12** (Michael Lind, policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Joshua Freedman, program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” New America Foundation, April 2012, http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Advanced manufacturing and increasingly sophisticated software,…of pharmaceuticals and other medical products to individuals.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Yu 09** — Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science (Victoria, Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate, 22 May 2009, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)</span>
<span class="Underline">A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past,…birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Spreads quickly --- circles the globe and kills billions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Greger, 6** – Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States [Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]</span>
<span class="Underline">A pandemic today could be many times worse than…from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Liquified Natural Gas Advantage**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**LNG exports will increase now – US harbor deepening is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ebinger et al, 12** – Director, Energy Security Initiative, and Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, AND Assistant Director, Energy Security Initiative, Brookings Institution, AND Senior Research Assistant, Brookings Institution (Charles, AND Kevin Massy, AND Govinda Avasarala, January 2012, “Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquified Natural Gas from the United States,” Energy Security Initiative, Brookings Institution, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Shipping Capacity</span>
<span class="Underline">The successful export of LNG will depend…dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia. 40 </span>

<span class="Underline">**Existing import terminals are being converted – eliminates their solvency deficits**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Siegel, 12** – President, J.J. Richardson, an investment advisor (John R., April 7, 2012, “The World's Largest LNG Supplier?,” Barron’s, http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424052748704759704577267370939083182.html#)</span>
<span class="Underline">By 2017 the U.S. could be the largest exporter of…13 billion cubic feet of LNG per day. </span>

====<span class="Underline">Eurasia Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**US gas supply is key to prevent Russian energy leverage over Europe**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Koven, 12** – Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Alexander L., March 1, 2012, “Under the Yoke: Europe’s Natural Gas Dependency on Russia,” Strategy Research Project, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA561551)</span>
<span class="Underline">Rising shale gas supplies have significantly reduced U.S.…form of LNG displaced from the U.S. market.</span>

<span class="Underline">**European gas independence from Russia solves Russian aggression, terrorism, and EU relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Medlock et al., 11** – Ph.D., James A. Baker, and Susan G. Baker Fellow in Energy and Resource Economics, James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, AND Wallace S. Wilson Fellow in Energy Studies, James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, AND Ph.D., Rice Scholar, James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, and George and Cynthia Mitchell Professor of Economics, Rice University (Kenneth B., AND Amy Myers Jaffe, AND Peter R. Hartley, July 2011, “Shale Gas and U.S. National Security,” Energy Forum, James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-DOEShaleGas-07192011.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The dramatic lessening of Europe’s dependence on Russian…that might not have the full support of Russia. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Russian aggression causes nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Blank, 9** – Ph.D., Research Professor, National Security Affairs, Strategic Studies Institute, United States Army War College (Stephen J., March 2009, “Russia and Arms Control: Are there Opportunities for the Obama Administration?,” Strategic Studies Institute, United States Army War College, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub908.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia can…striker, or for defensive purposes when imbalances </span>

<span class="Underline">**Terrorism leads to great power warfare — only scenario for escalation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Ayson, 10** — Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies in New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects”, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, InformaWorld)</span>
<span class="Underline">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the…not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Independently, EU dependence on Russia causes an EU first strike**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Garrett and Piccinni, 12** – Director, Resource Consulting Services, Limited, AND Former Research Analyst, Resource Consulting Services, Limited (Nicholas AND Anna, 2012, “Natural Resources and Conflict: A New Security Challenge for the European Union,” Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, http://www.sipri.org/research/conflict/resources/RCSfull1206.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Instability in the European Union’s natural resources…the Sahel and the Horn of Africa. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Russian gas leverage decimates NATO**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ghaleb, 11** – Ph.D. student in Energy Security, Department of Environmental Sciences and Policy, Central European University, and U.S. Army Captain (Alexander, October 18, 2011, “Natural Gas as an Instrument of Russian State Power,” Strategic Studies Institute, United States Army War College, pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The slow re-emergence of Russia as a world power…Russian natural gas is promptly addressed. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The impact is extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Brzezinski, 9** — former US National Security Adviser (Zbigniew, “An Agenda for NATO”, Foreign Affairs, October 2009, ebsco)</span>
<span class="Underline">NATO's potential is not primarily military. Although…the United States and the West more generally.</span>

<span class="Underline">**European dependence on Russia undermines Europe’s credibility and transatlantic cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cohen, 7** – Ph.D., Senior Research Fellow, Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, The Heritage Foundation (Ariel, November 5, 2007, “Europe's Strategic Dependence on Russian Energy,” The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2007/11/europes-strategic-dependence-on-russian-energy)</span>
<span class="Underline">From the American perspective, growing European…and siding with the U.S. on some key issues </span>

<span class="Underline">**The impact to EU credibility is extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bruton, 2** – Former Taoiseach of Ireland, Former EU Ambassador to the US (John, January 31, 2002, “A Report for the Joint Oireachtas Committee on European Affairs by John Bruton T.D,” The Irish Times, http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/special/2002/europe/index.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">As the Laeken Declaration put it, "Europe needs to…forces that will otherwise overwhelm us.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Transatlantic cooperation solves peace talks in the Balkans – that prevents conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bugajski et al., 11** – M.Phil, Lavrentis Lavrentiadis Chair, Southeast European Studies, Director, New European Democracies Project, Senior Fellow, Europe Program, CSIS, AND M.A. in international relations, Senior Fellow and Director, Europe Program, CSIS, AND Research intern, Europe Program, CSIS, AND M.A. in international relations and international economics, Research Associate, Europe Program, CSIS (Janusz, AND Heather A. Conley, AND Mihaela David AND Terry Toland, November 2011, “A New Transatlantic Approach for the Western Balkans: Time for a Change in Serbia, Kosovo, and Bosnia-Herzegovina,” Europe Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies, http://csis.org/files/publication/111110_Bugajski_TransatlanticApproach_web.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">A New International Presence: We recommend that a new international…and prosperity within the transatlantic community.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The impact is a global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CDH, 99** (Chicago Daily Herald, 5-9, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">We hear the grim rationale for sending in ground…nuclear war and incalculable self-destruction.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Japan Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Increasing global energy demand makes energy security the central question for the future state of the US-Japan alliance – a consensus is needed on bilateral energy strategy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cronin et al 12** (Patrick Senior Advisor at CNAS Center for New American Security, Patrick, Paul Fiarra, and Zachary Hosford, “The China Challenge: Military, Economic and Energy Choices Facing the US-Japan Alliance,” http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_TheChinaChallenge_Cronin_0.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Although energy security has long been…not yet sufficiently affordable to be a viable alternative. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Allowing LNG exports to Japan is critical to revitalize the alliance through bilateral trade and relations** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Armitage and Nye 12** (president of Armitage International and dean emeritus of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, August 15, </span>
<span class="Underline">(Richard and Joseph Jr., “The U.S.-Japan Alliance anchoring stability in asia”, CSIS, p. http://csis.org/publication/us-japan-alliance-1)</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent positive developments in natural gas could…equal footing with other FTA customers for U.S. natural gas. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Japan’s energy needs are forcing the country to increase ties with other countries which hamstrings Japan’s ability to be an effective ally** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mazza and Schmidt 2012** (Michael and Gary, “Turn Gas Into Geostrategy; Japan is eager to buy Alaskan LNG. The decision ought to be a no brainer.”, The Wall Street Journal, June 10, p. Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">“After the Fukushima disaster, Japan shut down its…way of making the most of this fortuitous development.</span>

<span class="Underline">**US Japan alliance key to prevent war over Taiwan—it's the key deterrent**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Xinbo 05**, professor at the Center for American Studies and associate dean of the School of International Relations and Public Affairs at Fudan University in Shanghai, 2005 Project Muse – Wu, “The End of the Silver Lining: A Chinese View of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance,” Washington Quarterly, 29.1, 119-130, accessed 9/18/12 </span>
<span class="Underline">“To Washington and Tokyo, the alliance will serve…with a militarily more active and capable Japan.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Taiwan war goes nuclear**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Glaser, 11** — Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University (Charles, “Will China's Rise Lead to War?: Why Realism Does Not Mean Pessimism”, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2011, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? THE PROSPECTS for avoiding…general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.</span>

====<span class="Underline">India-Vietnam Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**India wants US natural gas**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NGI 8-24-12** (Natural Gas Intelligence, “Japan, India Said to Urge U.S. to Allow LNG Exports,” 8-24-12, http://intelligencepress.com/subscribers/daily/news/d20120824i.html?printable=yes&highlight=export) </span>
<span class="Underline">Two potential beneficiaries of relatively cheap North…was appealing to the United States for LNG.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Demand for gas will force India to cooperate with Vietnam on gas exploration**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Daiss**, Energy Tribune, **9-5-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Tim, “The Sino Indian Vietnamese Triangle: Old Grudges, Hydrocarbons, And Geopolitical Gamesmanship Part One ,” 9-5-12, http://www.energytribune.com/articles.cfm/11624/The-Sino-Indian-Vietnamese-Triangle--Old-Grudges-Hydrocarbons---And-Geopolitical-Gamesmanship-Part-One)</span>
<span class="Underline">Nevertheless, all is not well for the country’s natural…offshore acreage in the South China Sea.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That leads to Indo-Vietnamese energy cooperation over the Paracel Islands** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Daiss**, East Asian energy correspondent for Energy Tribune, **9-12-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Tim, “The Sino Indian Vietnamese Triangle: Old Grudges, Hydrocarbons, And Geopolitical Gamesmanship Part Two ,” 9-12-12, http://www.energytribune.com/articles.cfm/11658/The-Sino-Indian-Vietnamese-Triangle--Old-Grudges-Hydrocarbons--And-Geopolitical-Gamesmanship-Part-Two) </span>
<span class="Underline">Along with Vietnam, India also has strained…oil and gas discovery is made,” he said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That causes multiple scenarios for conflict that escalates – the Paracels are key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cronin**, CNAS Asian security director, **9-4-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Patrick, “Averting Conflict in the South China Sea,” 9-4-12, http://www.cnas.org/node/8931) </span>
<span class="Underline">China’s growing tensions with the Philippines, as…arms race could well be catalyzed.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That escalates and goes global**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Medcalf and Heinrichs 11** (Rory and Raoul Lowy Institute (International Security Programme Director Australian National University Strategic and Defence Studies Centre Scholar, 6-27-11, “Asia’s Maritime Confidence Crisis,” http://the-diplomat.com/2011/06/27/asia%E2%80%99s-maritime-confidence-crisis/?all=true)</span>
<span class="Underline">To the casual observer, recent security…dangerous implications for regional peace and stability.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Arctic Advantage**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**Arctic exploitation exists now and is inevitable --- the only question is whether or not the US gets locked out --- port deepening is essential to expand US arctic mining efforts which solves mineral extraction and rare earth element shortages**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hobson 12** (Margaret Kriz Hobson, Environment and Energy reporter, “Aging Infrastructure Adds to Woes of Alaska-Bound Fuel Tanker,” Greenwire, E&E Publishing, LLC, January 10, 2012, http://www.eenews.net/public/Greenwire/2012/01/10/1)</span>
<span class="Underline">But Alaska has no deepwater offshore port…drilling. Those are all starting to line up.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Coast guard has an icebreaker for scientific research --- we only need a deep water port**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Papp 11** (Admiral Robert J., ., U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral, Testimony before Congress, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112shrg72568/html/CHRG-112shrg72568.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">There are few national assets capable of operating…have icebreakers operating in the area.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Methane Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**New Department of Energy tests prove hydrate mining works --- more research broadens effectiveness**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DOE 12** (Department of Energy, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies,” May 5 2012, http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies) </span>
<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven…on a larger scale in the U.S. Gulf Coast.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Deeper ports also solve that second internal link --- they’re key to expand research and scientific tests for mining** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Lowther 12** (Paula Lowther, contracts and compliance manager, Alaska Region of American Marine Corp., “Arctic Deep Water Port,” Alaska Business Monthly, January 2012, http://www.akbizmag.com/Alaska-Business-Monthly/January-2012/Arctic-Deep-Water-Port/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Beyond national security and resource development on…to support continued scientific studies.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**Massive Arctic methane hydrate blowout is inevitable --- mining stabilizes the hydrates and solves extinction --- now is key** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Light 12** (Malcolm P.R. Light, Center for Polar Observation and Modeling, University of London, polar climate modeling and methane hydrates in the permafrost and submarine Arctic, “Charting Mankind’s Arctic Methane Emission Exponential Expressway to Total Extinction in the Next 50 Years,” Arctic News, August 10, 2012, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/08/charting-mankinds-expressway-to-extinction.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">If left alone the subsea Arctic methane hydrates will…shutting down the entire Arctic subsea methane blowout (Light 2012c).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Mining controls the magnitude of the impact to methane leaks --- it’s key to limit emissions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cohen 10** (Dave Cohen, MBA, Chemical Engineering, Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, February 11, 2010, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517)</span>
<span class="Underline">Well, of course, this makes sense. We wouldn't want to…fossil fuels like natural gas—to cause natural degassing.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Rare Earth Elements Scenario</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Chinese monopoly on the market now makes global cyber fronts vulnerable to attack --- makes global warfare inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Anthony 11** (12/30, Lead Editor at Ziff Davis Inc. Graduated from the University of Essex, Columnist, Editor at AOL News, “Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China”http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2)</span>
<span class="Underline">The rare earth apocalypse The doomsday event that…energy or displaying images. My money’s on graphene.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Also makes element wars and China war inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Commiso 10** (Katharine Comisso, contributing writer for New Scientist, “Is This the Start of Element Wars?” September 2010, http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2010/09/is-this-the-start-of-the-eleme.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">China has just 37 percent of the world's estimated…the U.K.’s Royal Society of Chemistry, Richard Pike. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Domestic sites won’t be sufficient and precedent short circuits potential barriers to resource conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schwartz 10** (Ariel Schwartz, “The New Resource Wars: What if China Stops Exporting Rare Elements?” Sept. 23, fastcompany)</span>
<span class="Underline">Earlier this week, China halted all shipments…transition away from reliance on unstable regimes. </span>

<span class="Underline">**China war causes great power nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**White, 12** — professor of strategic studies at ANU and a visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute (Hugh, “The China Choice: A Bold Vision for U.S.-China Relations”, 8/17/12, http://thediplomat.com/2012/08/17/the-china-choice-a-bold-vision-for-u-s-china-relations/, Deech)</span>
<span class="Underline">Even if China may not become strong enough to…exploring the possibility of accommodation with China. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Resource wars cause extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Woolridge, 9** — Former Officer in the US Army Medical Service Corps (Frosty, “America Galloping Toward Its Greatest Crisis in the 21st Century”, The Examiner, 5/22/2009, http://www.examiner.com/examiner/x-3515-Denver-Political-Issues-Examiner~y2009m5d22-America-galloping-toward-its-greatest-crisis-in-the-21st-century)</span>
<span class="Underline">“It is clear that most politicians and most citizens…case, a nuclear war ending civilization.</span>

====<span class="Underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Oil Spills Scenario</span></span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Arctic spills are probable and inevitable --- leads to extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**WWF 10** (World Wildlife Fund, “Drilling for Oil in the Arctic: Too Soon, Too Risky,” Nuka Research and Planning Group, LLC, December 1, 2010, http://assets.worldwildlife.org/publications/393/files/original/Drilling_for_Oil_in_the_Arctic_Too_Soon_Too_Risky.pdf?1345753131)</span>
<span class="Underline">These concerns assume new urgency in view of the growing…is a keystone ecosystem for the entire planet.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan is key --- deeper ports dramatically reduce response time** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Lowther 12** (Paula Lowther, contracts and compliance manager, Alaska Region of American Marine Corp., “Arctic Deep Water Port,” Alaska Business Monthly, January 2012, http://www.akbizmag.com/Alaska-Business-Monthly/January-2012/Arctic-Deep-Water-Port/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. Coast Guard and National Oceanic…vessels must travel from other ports. </span>

**Response time is key** 
**O'Rourke 13** (Ronald specialist in Naval affairs “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)
Response time is a critical factor for oil…extremely high compared to other regions.101

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Plan Text**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in expedited port transportation infrastructure projects in the United States, including transportation infrastructure surrounding ports.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port transportation infrastructure projects in the United States, including transportation infrastructure surrounding ports.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**__Most Recent:__**</span>

<span class="Underline">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its deep port transportation infrastructure investment in the United States, including intermodal transportation infrastructure connections surrounding ports.**</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1AC Solvency**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federal investment is key --- private and local action decimates the industry**</span>
<span class="Underline">**APA 09**—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004)</span>
<span class="Underline">Q. Why should the Federal Government pay for…tremendous influx of cargo if shippers’ options are limited.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Only the plan solves --- Army Corps expertise is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Palermo and Wilson 2k** (Michael R. Palermo, U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center and Joseph R. Wilson, Operations Division, Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, “Corps Of Engineers Role In Contaminated Sediment Management And Remediation”, http://www.envirotools.msu.edu/factsheets/remediationofcs/ABA-USACERoleSedRem-wCR.PDF, </span>
<span class="Underline">The Corps has a unique perspective on contaminated…CERCLA/Superfund subsequent to the Corps performing the work.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This is critical to solvency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Palermo and Wilson 2k** (Michael R. Palermo, U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center and Joseph R. Wilson, Operations Division, Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, “Corps Of Engineers Role In Contaminated Sediment Management And Remediation”, http://www.envirotools.msu.edu/factsheets/remediationofcs/ABA-USACERoleSedRem-wCR.PDF, </span>
<span class="Underline">Contaminated sediments is an environmental problem…for water, air, and land-disposed waste. </span>


====<span class="Underline">Other 1AC Cards</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The federal government’s key – port infrastructure’s under federal jurisdiction and federal action’s key to leadership**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AAPA, 11** (American Association of Port Authorities, March 2011, “Getting Back to Basics: The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have…global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal leadership’s key to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Woodley, Jr., 08** – Former United States Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) (John Paul, Summer 2008, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat,” Seaports Magazine, Vol. 13, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Like many nations, the United States…economy strong for generations to come.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Add-Ons**</span>== 

===<span class="Underline">**2AC Oil Spills Add-on**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**Shallow ports risk oil spills**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Landrieu 12** – Chairwoman Senate Subcommittee on Homeland Security (Mary, “Harbor Maintenance Funds Must Be Put to Intended Use”, 2011/2012 Issue of Seaport Magazine, http://digital.sea-portsinfo.com/issue/54053)</span>
<span class="Underline">As gateways to domestic and international trade, America’s…economy at no additional cost to taxpayers.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Oil Spills collapse the ecosystem**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Adams 10** – The results of an oil spill (Mike, “The Guld Oil Spill: An Extinction Level Event?”, Blogspot, 5/9/10, http://coyoteprime-runningcauseicantfly.blogspot.com/2010/05/gulf-oil-spill-extinction-level-event.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The possibility of an extinction event? It's hard to…the human population by 90 percent or more.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Loss of biodiversity causes complete extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DINER 1994** (Maj. David, Instructor at the US Army JAG School, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161)</span>
<span class="Underline">1. Why Do We Care? -- No species has ever dominated…mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**AT: Counterplans**</span>== 

===<span class="Underline">**2AC AT: Amend Shipping Act CP**</span>=== 
**All transportation is unpopular – the counterplan links**
**Puentes, 10** - senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Robert, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two‐Year Transportation Law,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf
Yet the nation’s surface transportation law is…source of revenue for the program. 2

**Courts block solvency**
**Holland and Knight 2000**— international law firm with more than 1,000 lawyers (date determined by the phrase “Last summer” when referring to a statement made in 1999 “Who Should Pay for Dredging?” http://www.hklaw.com/default.aspx?id=45632&pdf=yes)//chm
Who Should Pay for Dredging? Dredging the ports…those who benefit thereby fairly share in the cost.

**User fee-based systems neglect smaller ports—collapses the economy**
**Rosolen, 2011**—Managing editor of Materials Management & Distribution at Canada Magazine (Deanna, “US dredging crisis update”, July/August 2011, Materials Management and Distribution 56. 4, Proquest)//chm
The American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA) has…well for the reality on the Great Lakes."
<span class="Underline"> </span>
===<span class="Underline">**2AC AT: States CP**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**States and local ports are bound by federal regulations which require federal funding before new projects can begin**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gibbs, 2011** – Subcommittee Chairman (Bob, “Memorandum on the Hearing on “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?”, October 21, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/112th/Water/Water%20Briefing%20Memo%20%20%2010-26-11.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Infrastructure Investment Investing in ports not only creates jobs…million less than the FY 2011 annualized Continuing Resolution of $2.361 billion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**States links to politics – independent state funding still requires Congressional approval**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barnett, 12** (Ron, USA Today, 5/24, “East Coast ports scramble to dig deep, for supersize ships,” http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-24/deepening-harbors/55653540/1)</span>
<span class="Underline">‘the association’ = the American Association of Port Authorities</span>
<span class="Underline">South Carolina's Legislature this month designated $300…Chamberlayne, commander of the Corps of Engineers Charleston District.</span>

<span class="Underline">**States lack the resources – aff specific omg**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Reixach, 11** -- Executive Port Director and Chief Executive Officer Port Freeport Texas and AAPA Chairman of the Board and U.S. Delegation Chairman (A.J., "Are we ready to handle growth in global trade?", Summer, http://www.aapa-ports.org/Publications/SeaportsDetail.cfm?itemnumber=18152#seaportsarticle4)</span>
<span class="Underline">In my welcoming remarks Feb. 1 at the Shifting International…the cost-share arrangement for channel projects.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal leadership is vital to solving trade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**SCHANK, 5/20** – PRESIDENT AND CEO OF THE Eno Center for Transportation, was a Transportation Policy Advisor for Hilary Clinton, and holds a Ph.D. in urban planning from Columbia University, a Master of City Planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a B.A. in urban studies from Columbia University. (Joshua, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, Eno Center for Transportation, 5/20/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement)</span>
<span class="Underline">Final Thoughts All of these ideas have a…primarily influenced by data, analysis, and desired outcomes.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No solvency – variance –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**A. State action lacks uniformity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldsmith ’97** (Jack, Associate Prof – U Chicago, Virginia Law Review, November, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nonetheless, these concerns need not affect the legitimacy of the federal common law of foreign relations. Although federal courts might be generally unsuited to make federal foreign relations law on both legitimacy and competence grounds, the adverse consequences of state-by-state regulation in the face of federal political branch silence might be worse. States suffer from many of the same disabilities as federal courts in this context. Moreover, federal courts, in contrast to the states, have independence from local political processes and, as a branch of the national government, are likely to be more sensitive to national foreign relations interests. Even in the absence of strategic behavior by the states, one might think that, all things being equal, suboptimal but uniform federal judge-made regulation of foreign relations is preferable to the nonuniformity inherent in state-by-state regulation of a foreign relations issue. 213 Finally, the federal common law of foreign relations is designed to protect political branch prerogatives in foreign relations that the political branches themselves are structurally unsuited to protect. Any remaining concerns about the legitimacy or competence of the federal common law of foreign relations are thus mitigated by the political branches' ability to override judicial errors in the development of such law.</span>

<span class="Underline">**B. That tanks solvency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Donahue ’97** (John D., JFK School of Government, Disunited States, p. 42)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Even when states vary, of course, there are arguments for uniformity. Institutions and individuals who live or do business in several states face the expense, bother, and confusion of coping with different (and sometimes conflicting) rules. Inconsistencies among state laws and regulations can lead to disputes of great complexity and to resolutions of limited appeal. After taking its case all the way to the Supreme Court, for example, a cruise ship operator won the right to be sued only in Florida by aggrieved passengers who had been on a trip between Washington State and Mexico.</span>


==<span class="Underline">**AT: Disadvantages**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**2AC AT: Fiscal Discipline DA**</span>=== 
**Deficit spending is key to reestablishing economic growth – promotes job creation and does not lead to inflation**
**MacEwan and Miller 11** – Economist, The University of Massachusetts and Economist (Arthur and John, “Economic Collapse, Economic Change: Getting to the Roots of the Crisis”, p.178)/CP
The main point is that there is no basis to…interest rate would be higher and rising.

**Spending now is good**
**Wren-Lewis, 12** (Simon, economics professor at Oxford University, “Austerity and not wasting a crisis,” 3/17/12, http://mainlymacro.blogspot.com/2012/03/austerity-and-not-wasting-crisis.html, Tashma)
In the austerity versus stimulus debate, I argue…just displaying my ignorance of political science.

**Obama is pushing for massive TI spending now – results in spending**
Will **Marshall**, President of the Progressive Policy Institute, **4/25/13** http://www.huffingtonpost.com/will-marshall/austerity-obama-budget_b_3117732.html
Giving priority to jobs and growth, Obama calls…regional centers to promote advanced manufacturing.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
===<span class="Underline">**2AC AT: Immigration Politics [TOC]**</span>=== 
**Won’t pass – House, citizenship, election**
**McAuliff 4/25** (Michael, “House Unveils Immigration Reform Piecemeal Plan; Senators Warn It Is 'Not Going To Work'”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/04/25/immigration-reform-house_n_3155908.html,
WASHINGTON -- House lawmakers rolled out a…we live by any particular timetable," Goodlatte said.

**Bipartisan support for the plan--- most recent xo proves**
**Crabtree 12** (Susan staff writer for the Washington times “ Port plan brings rare moment of unity for Obama, GOP” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jul/24/port-plan-brings-rare-moment-unity-obama-gop/?page=all)
President Obama’s latest jobs initiative — a pledge…are the first of 43 projects planned. Read more:

**PC isn’t finite or key – the plan is a win that spills over to future victories** 
**Hirsh 2/7** – chief correspondent of National Journal (Michael, “There’s No Such Thing as Political Capital”, http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/there-s-no-such-thing-as-political-capital-20130207,
On Tuesday, in his State of the Union…what the hell’s the presidency for?”¶

**Schumer and McCain push for immigration**
**Bolton, 4/26/13** (Alexander, The Hill, April 26, 2013, “How Sens. Schumer and McCain teamed up to push immigration,” http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/296341-how-sens-schumer-and-mccain-teamed-up-to-push-immigration)
Charles Schumer has finally learned to laugh…at a press conference last week.

**Graham pushes the plan**
**Bird 11** (Allyson staff writer for the post and courier “Graham to introduce legislation on port dredging” http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20110314/PC16/303149952) 
Following a promise last month to get a…best option on the South Atlantic.

**Gun control thumps, PC fails, and Obama avoids the link** 
**Walker 4/22** (Yates, Obama couldn’t sell a candy bar to a fat kid, http://dailycaller.com/2013/04/22/obama-couldnt-sell-a-candy-bar-to-a-fat-kid/#ixzz2RGGmPYIR,
In the days since America learned the name Adam…policy, President Obama has yet to make a sale.

**Massive TI spending now--- Obama just pushed passage for major transportation bills**
**Transport Topics 4/4/13** http://www.ttnews.com/articles/basetemplate.aspx?storyid=31646
President Obama promoted the benefits of…the president’s proposed “Fix-It-First” plan, AP reported.

**Executive actions solves** 
**Kumar 3/19** (Anita, “Obama turning to executive power to get what he wants”, 2013, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2013/03/19/186309/obama-turning-to-executive-power.html#storylink=cpy,
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama came into…constitutional professor told The New Republic magazine.

===1AR AT: Politics DA -- Immigration Won't Pass [TOC]=== 
**Won’t pass the House – poison pills** 
**Daily Kos 4/24** (“Republicans struggle as immigration reform approaches”, http://www.dailykos.com/story/2013/04/24/1204442/-Republicans-struggle-as-immigration-reform-approaches#,
House conservatives will try to kill the plan…an extended, dragged out period of time.

**House will kill reform – piecemeal approach, lack of citizenship** 
**Reuters 4/25** (“House Republican offers few assurances on immigration bill”, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/sns-rt-us-usa-immigrationbre93o0n3-20130425,0,5033627.story,
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The push for comprehensive…pathway to citizenship would be a "non-starter."

**The GOP won’t give in** 
**Tomasky 4/24** (Michael, “Republicans: An Immovable Wall of Nays”, http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/04/24/republicans-an-immovable-wall-of-nays.html,
Immigration is the one area today on which…genes usually get the better of reason.

===1AR AT: Politics DA -- Winners Win=== 
**Forcing controversial fights key to Obama’s agenda—the alt is gridlock**
**Dickerson ’13** John Dickerson, Slate, 1/18/13, Go for the Throat!, www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2013/01/barack_obama_s_second_inaugural_address_the_president_should_declare_war.single.html
On Monday, President Obama will preside over…leave it, at least temporarily, in disarray.

**Winners win – legislative victories build momentum** 
**Hirsh 2/7** – chief correspondent of National Journal (Michael, “There’s No Such Thing as Political Capital”, http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/there-s-no-such-thing-as-political-capital-20130207
In terms of Obama’s second-term agenda, what…win may well lead to others. “Winning wins.”
<span class="Underline"> </span>