[[toc]]
=Case Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alaska Ports</span>== 
===Alaska CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The Alaskan Department of Transportation should fund the development and construction of its deep-water ports.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alaskan Department of Transportation solves best.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Northern Economics 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Largest professional economics consulting firm in Alaska; report prepared for Army Corps of Engineers and Alaska Department of Transportation (“Alaska Regional Ports: Planning for Alaska’s Regional Ports and Harbors: Final Report” January 2011; < [[http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/regionalports_finalreport0111.pdf]]>)//AB</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Port and harbor projects can be financed…well as port or inner harbor design work.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NC AT: Alaska Doesn't Have Money</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lolz they do and they can also deficit spend</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Forgey, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Pat, “Budget: Alaska can’t borrow, but it sure can save,” Morris News Service-Alaska, Juneau Empire, 8/18/11,[[http://peninsulaclarion.com/news/2011-08-18/budget-alaska-can%E2%80%99t-borrow-but-it-sure-can-save]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While some other states — actually, most other states — are…but Alaska has been able to do that with savings.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mayport</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Mayport Neg-1NC Navy]]<span class="Underline">Navy Advantage</span></span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Attempting to perpetuate naval overstretch will only lead to collapse**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Gouré, 05** (Dr. Daniel Gouré is vice president of the Lexington Institute, a defense-policy “think tank.” Prior to joining Lexington, he was the deputy director of the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in Washington, D.C., “The Tyranny of Forward Presence,” Naval Power in the Twenty-first Century A Naval War College Review Reader)</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The reality is that numbers matter. The U.S.…FY 2010, and to 2 percent in 2020.27</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Shore-basing DA –** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**A) Homebasing trades off with amphibious modernization which already solves the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Webb, 09** (Jim, US Senator from Virginia, a member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services and a former secretary of the Navy, letter to Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn, July 11, 2009 [[http://webb.senate.gov/newsroom/pressreleases/2009-06-11-02.cfm]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">I was struck by the growing level of…Jacksonville than a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**B) That turns hegemony and the case**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Howard and Groen, 11** – Captain Samuel C. Howard, US Navy, Cololnel Michael S. Groen, US Marine Corps “Amphibious, Now More than Ever,” Proceedings Magazine – November 2011, [[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-11/amphibious-now-more-ever]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even though the threat symmetry may have changed, the Navy-Marine Corps team still needs the capability to insert ground troops from the sea. Ten years ago, the 9/11 terrorist attacks brought a…for by a windfall of ideas. It is time we turn to.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Resources DA – requirements of carrier defense allow enemies to undermine U.S. warfighting**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Gady, 11** (Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, “Aircraft Carriers and Chinese Missiles: Time to Rethink the U.S. Naval Doctrine”, 1/21/11, [[http://www.ewi.info/aircraft-carriers-and-chinese-missiles-time-rethink-us-naval-doctrine]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The symbol of American power, the aircraft carrier, is…to catch up faster with U.S. military might.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Further Fifth Fleet expansion will cause Iranian miscalc**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**WIRED 3/16** (Gunboats, Super-Torpedoes, Sea-Bots: U.S. Navy Launches Huge Iran Surge, 2/16/2012, Wired Magazine,[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/03/navy-persian-gulf/]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sending more aircraft carriers to the waters…have to end a fight quickly if it breaks out.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**No offense – carrier’s don’t sustain deterrence**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Marvin, 11** [Taylor, Prospect Journal of International Affairs UCSD, CUTTING US DEFENSE SPENDING IS NOT A THREAT TO AMERICAN SECURITY, [[http://prospectjournal.ucsd.edu/index.php/2011/09/cutting-us-defense-spending-is-not-a-threat-to-american-security/]]] </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, US military spending far exceeds the…far in excess of any potential rivals.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Mayport Neg-1NC Terrorism]]<span class="Underline">Terrorism Advantage</span></span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Bases are secure – there’s zero precedent for the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009[[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Navy has made no compelling argument…to the appropriate congressional defense committees.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**No terrorist targeting**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009[[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]]) </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Issue 2: There is no question that the risk of a…aftershocks, and/or fear among the U.S. population.” </span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Funding the aff is an opportunity cost to the navy’s strike fighter program – turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009[[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Issue 1: The Navy is substantially under-investing in…Mayport—a sufficient number of aircraft for one additional squadron.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**No impact to terrorism** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Dalmia, 11** — senior analyst at Reason Foundation, columnist at Forbes, co-winner of the 2009 Bastiat Prize for Online Journalism, contributor to the op-ed pages of The Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, New York Post, The Weekly Standard, Business Week, San Francisco Chronicle, and Chicago Tribune (Shikha, “What Islamist Terrorist Threat?”, Reason, 2/15/2011,[[http://reason.com/archives/2011/02/15/what-islamist-terrorist-threat]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Know thy enemy is an ancient principle of…building a deep bench of terrorist talent overtime.</span>

===<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Florida CP</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC</span>==== 

**Text: Florida should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a home port for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at the Mayport Naval Station.**

**Florida can solve the entirety of the aff**
**Wavy, 11**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – division of the Virginia Government Accountability Office, (Wavy.com, news source Report March 30 2011 “GAO: Fla. could maintain nuclear carrier”, </span>[[http://www.wavy.com/dpp/military/GAO-Fla-industry-can-maintain-nuclear-carrier]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NORFOLK, Va. (AP) - Ship-repair firms in northeast Florida…if a carrier permanently sails to Mayport.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]