[[toc]]
=Agenda Politics= 
==<span class="Underline">**Link**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC TI Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation Infrastructure Spending drains capital – escalates fights with GOP.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tomasky ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Newsweek/Daily Beast special correspondent Michael Tomasky is also editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas – Newsweek – September 19, 2011 – lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, Barack Obama found the passion. "Building…anyone seriously conclude that this is working?</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC TI Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation spending drains capital – election magnifies the link**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Szakonyi ‘12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Mark Szakonyi is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Commerce – focusing on the reporting of rail and intermodal issues, regulation and policy out of the JOC's Washington, D.C., bureau. Journal of Commerce – March 20, 2012 – lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">House Republicans are considering a short-term…the Federal Aviation Administration last summer .</span>

<span class="Underline">**Plan drains Presidential capital. Even once-popular transportation issues now hurt the White House.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Freemark ‘12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/)</span>
<span class="Underline">President Obama barely mentions the need…with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Army Corps Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**GOP hates Army Corps funding**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bishop, 2011** – New York representative and ranking members on the Committee and Subcommittee (Timothy H., “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st-Century Trade Realities? Hearing before the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House of Representatives, One Hudred Twelfth Congress: First Session”, October 26, 2011, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg70928/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg70928.pdf)//MM</span>
<span class="Underline">The third theme is that we need to…anybody. Someone’s ox is going to get gored.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC CCS Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It’s politically impossible—economically infeasible, means no investment from private sector**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Economist, 8/18**/12 (The Economist, "Going underground, New work on how to clean up coal", www.economist.com/node/21560571) </span>
<span class="Underline">AS THE pace of climate change accelerates, energy…present, that looks far off. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC CCS Link**</span>=== 
**It’s unpopular**
**Mills 11** - *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge (Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book)
CCS already labours under something of a…technologies, however environmentally vital.

===<span class="Underline">**2NC CCS Link -- Controversy**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It’s a political lightning rod—even environmentalists are wary** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Luoma 11** – author of three books on environmental issues and a contributing editor at Audubon (Jon, “Are Carbon Sequestration Leaks a Potential Health Danger?” Popular Mechanics September 13 2011 http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/environment/climate-change/are-carbon-sequestration-leaks-a-health-danger) MLR</span>
<span class="Underline">Still, CCS remains a lightning rod. Roberts and…one will reassure those wary of CO2 leaks. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC CCS Link -- New Spending**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Significant opposition to new spending on CCS**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weiss 10** - Senior Fellow and the Director of Climate Strategy at American Progress</span>
<span class="Underline">Daniel, “Efforts to Save Coal Could End Up Destroying It,” Center for American Progress, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/09/coal_senators.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, without a pollution reduction program to…will be facing severe budget cuts.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC CCS Link -- Link Turns Case</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Link turns case – public backlash prevents CCS success**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stephenson 8** - Director, Natural Resources and Environment @ GAO</span>
<span class="Underline">“Federal Actions Will Greatly Affect the Viability of Carbon Capture and Storage As a Key Mitigation Option,” GAO, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d081080.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Citing such concerns, a recent report by the…workshop made similar recommendations for public </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Electric Vehicles Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Republicans hate EVs – destroys credibility**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kiley 12** – Editor-in-Chief of AOL Autos, award winning journalist with more than 25 years of writing about the auto industry (David, “Why Gingrich and GOP Bash Electric Vehicles”, AOL Autos, 22 February 2012, http://autos.aol.com/article/why-gingrich-and-gop-bash-electric-vehicles/)//BI</span>
<span class="Underline">Republicans vying for the White House and members…exhibited a preference for big horsepower and large SUVs. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC HSR Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**High Speed Rail policy would suck-in the White House and drain capital – this card is MONEY.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Freemark ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – February 8th, 2011 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/02/08/the-white-house-stakes-its-political-capital-on-a-massive-intercity-rail-plan/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The White House Stakes Its Political Capital on a…the Democratic-controlled Senate to push hard for it.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC HSR Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Supporting High Speed Rail drains capital – Election demographics prove** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Freemark ‘12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – February 6th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/02/06/time-to-fight/)</span>
<span class="Underline">With a House like this, what advances can…that currently rules the GOP in the House.</span>

<span class="Underline">**High Speed Rail policy ensures loss of political capital – party demographics prove**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Freemark ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “Understanding the Republican Party’s Reluctance to Invest in Transit Infrastructure” January 25th, 2011 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/01/25/understanding-the-republican-partys-reluctance-to-invest-in-transit-infrastructure/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Conservatives in Congress threaten to shut down funding…on transport issues seem likely to have to wait.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC HSR Link -- Oil Lobby</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The oil lobby strongly opposes HSR**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RePass ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">(James P. RePass - Principal Executive of the National Corridors Initiative, a bi-partisan business and environmental transportation advocacy group. Primarily engaged in operating the non-profit National Corridors Initiative since its founding in 1989, he has a private-sector background and broad private-sector experience. Providence Journal – June 9, 2011 – lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Recently, word began to dribble out of the Midwest that a…competition to be first is starting to get hot.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Oil lobby key to agenda and causes vote-switching**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stein ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">Sam Stein is a Political Reporter at the Huffington Post, based in Washington, D.C. Previously he has worked for Newsweek magazine, the New York Daily News and the investigative journalism group Center for Public Integrity. He has a masters from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism and is a graduate of Dartmouth College. Huffington Post – May 19, 2011 – http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/19/oil-lobbying_n_864270.html</span>
<span class="Underline">In the month leading up to an early May…it's really these politicians who are in the tank.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Icebreakers**</span>=== 
**GOP doesn’t want to spend on icebreakers**
**Ahlers 11** (Mike Ahlers, reporter, Polar icebreaker dispute ties up Coast Guard appropriations, 11/3/11, CNN)
With the nation's only two heavy-duty polar…afloat is "throwing good money after bad."

===2NC Icebreakers=== 
**Republicans hate icebreakers**
**Song 11** (Kyung M. Song , staff writer, 2 parties' icebreaker plans on collision course , 11/8/11, Seattle Times Washington bureau)
WASHINGTON — For a pair of battered ships that in recent…significant gap in the nation's icebreaking capability."

**New spending especially controversial—violates bipart spending agreement to keep the government running**
Deidre **Walsh**, CNN, **9/11**/12, Congress has little motivation for compromise before election, lexis
After a five-week summer recess, Congress …Senate Democrats as violating the bipartisan debt deal.

**Kills an agreement**
**Bucci & Graham 12** (Steven Bucci, Senior Research Fellow for Defense and Homeland Security, The Heritage Foundation, Ph.D., M.A. International Relations, University of South Carolina, B.S. National Security, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, graduate of the U.S. Army War College, the Hellenic Army War College in Greece and the Senior Seminar of the Department of State; and Owen Graham, Research and Operations Coordinator for National Security and Foreign Policy, The Heritage Foundation, M.A. International Politics, B.A. International Studies, American University; “Sequestration’s Shadow on the Defense Industrial Base,” The Foundry, 7-13-2012, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/07/13/sequestrations-shadow-on-the-defense-industrial-base/)
So far, neither President Obama nor Senate Democrats…their differences during the brief lame-duck session.

===<span class="Underline">**1NC LNG Terminals Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The Army Corps of Engineers completes terminal projects—the MCET proves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jervey, 9/20/12** (Ben Jervey, staff writer, "Army Corps Fast Tracks Port of Morrow Coal Export Terminal," www.desmogblog.com/2012/09/20/army-corps-fast-tracks-port-morrow-coal-export-terminal) </span>
<span class="Underline">It is yet unclear whether the Army Corps'…impacts during the course of their review.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**GOP hates Army Corps funding**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bishop, 2011** – New York representative and ranking members on the Committee and Subcommittee (Timothy H., “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st-Century Trade Realities? Hearing before the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House of Representatives, One Hudred Twelfth Congress: First Session”, October 26, 2011, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg70928/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg70928.pdf)//MM</span>
<span class="Underline">The third theme is that we need to…anybody. Someone’s ox is going to get gored.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC NextGen Link**</span>=== 
**Congress doesn’t like the plan- funding disputes, program delays and costs overruns**
**Poole 12** (April 19, 2012, Robert Poole, Robert Poole is director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation. Poole, an MIT-trained engineer, has advised the Ronald Reagan, the George H.W. Bush, the Clinton, and the George W. Bush administrations. “Air Traffic Control Reform News #92” http://reason.org/news/show/1012825.html)
An even larger failing is that the report…its funding and to which it must be responsive.

===2NC NextGen Link=== 
**Even if NextGen is bipartisan, funding is unpopular.**
Ashley **Halsey**, staffwriter for Washington Post, 11-17-**2011**, “Lawmaker predicts Congress will reach accord on aviation funding”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/commuting/lawmaker-predicts-congress-will-reach-accord-on-aviation-funding/2011/11/17/gIQAZWCgUN_story.html
Without confidence that Congress has committed to…organize Delta Air Lines — is rooted in political philosophy.

**Tech transitions cause political resistance – causes delay**
Steven **Morrison**, Professor and Chair in the Department of Economics at Northeastern University, Editor in Chief of the Journal of Transport Economics and Policy, May **2008**, “Delayed! U.S. Aviation Infrastructure Policy at a Crossroads”, Brookings, http://www.brookings.edu/research/articles/2008/05/aviation-winston
Unfortunately, the delays that the FAA has experienced …keep navigational aids and jobs in their districts.42

===<span class="Underline">**1NC NIB Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Plan will cost political capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gregory, 11** --- research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford (8/21/2011, Paul Roderick, “Why We Don't Need An Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2011/08/21/why-we-dont-need-an-infrastructure-bank-japan-is-why/, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A state infrastructure bank will be at the core of…make it a tough sell even to “reasonable” Republicans.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC NIB Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**NIB is politically impossible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Puentes 12** (Robert, fellow at the Brookings institute. 7/16/12. "What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?" Brookings. www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/07/16-infrastructure-bank-puentes)</span>
<span class="Underline">Last week, the Congressional Budget Office released…states like New York and cities like Chicago.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan is politically impossible- perceived as pork barrel spending**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pethokoukis 12** (James, conomics columnist and business editor at U.S.News & World Report magazine. 7/14/12. "The CBO just poured cold water on Obama’s idea for a national infrastructure bank." Richocet. ricochet.com/main-feed/The-CBO-just-poured-cold-water-on-Obama-s-idea-for-a-national-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span class="Underline">But the biggest drawback is that while NIB…and a pork barreler’s dream come true.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC NIB Link -- Obama Pushes**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama empirically does push**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Snyder, 11** --- Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio (10/28/2011, Tanya, “Why Create an Infrastructure Bank When We Could Just Expand TIFIA?” http://dc.streetsblog.org/2011/10/28/why-create-an-infrastructure-bank-when-we-could-just-expand-tifia/,)</span>
<span class="Underline">The debate over an infrastructure bank will…bank, they’ll continue to push for it.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Port Dredging Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Plan requires political capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barnett, 12** (Ron, USA Today, 5/24, “East Coast ports scramble to dig deep, for supersize ships,” http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-24/deepening-harbors/55653540/1)//DH</span>
<span class="Underline">‘the association’ = the American Association of Port Authorities</span>
<span class="Underline">The association is lobbying Congress for approval, which…maintained at their authorized depths and widths."</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Port Dredging Link</span>=== 
**Plan is unpopular in Congress**
**Spivak 11** -- senior research analyst at the HNTB Corporation, a transportation design and engineering firm (Jeffrey, "The Battle of the Ports", May/June, American Planning Association, aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Battle%20of%20the%20Ports%20-%20Planning%20mag%20-%20May_June%202011.pdf) //NK//
The fact is, with the federal deficit-cutting…Russell Held of the Virginia Port Authority.

**The plan is unpopular**
**Clark 11** (Lesley, Miami port dredging not in Obama budget plans
Stay Connected”, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2011/02/14/108719/miami-port-dredging-not-in-obama.html, ZBurdette)
An aggressive effort to secure federal funding to…community health centers and legal services.

**Plan will be perceived as a new earmark**
**AP, 2012** – Associated Press (“Report: Southeast, Gulf need deeper port harbors”, Associated Press, June 21 2012, http://www.lasvegassun.com/news/2012/jun/21/us-port-expansions/) MGD
The budget crisis has made federal…to make sure our ports remain competitive."

**Dredging funding unpopular – budget crisis and earmark spending**
**AP 6/21** (Associated Press, “Price tag to dredge Eastern ports for big ships: $5 billion”, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-06-21/southern-ports-expansion/55746890/1)
"Strategically, we need to find a bucket of…lines should be required to pay a greater share.

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Port Security Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Republicans and the private sector hate the plan** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Calvan, 7/12** (Bobby, Boston Globe, July 12, 2012, “US to miss target for tighter port security,” http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb)</span>
<span class="Underline">Republicans have been wary of forcing the agency…cargo is sometimes transferred from ship to ship offshore.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Waterways Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is a political nightmare**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Boselovic, 12** (3/18/2012, Len, “Locked and Dammed: The region's 23 locks and dams are on the brink of failure,” http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/environment/locked-and-dammed-the-regions-23-locks-and-dams-are-on-the-brink-of-failure-517289/?print=1, JMP)</span>
<span class="Underline">The federal budget deficit is only one…Washington, D.C., that the railroads and truckers do."</span>

===2NC AT: Plan = Lame Duck=== 
<span class="Underline">**Even if they win this argument, our links still apply – and trying to force new spending through the lame duck independently triggers backlash**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Miniter 12** (Richard, New York Times, Leading from Behind: The Reluctant President and the Advisors Who Decide for Him, 2012, pg 85-6)</span>
<span class="Underline">After the historic defeat, Axelrod went on to teach…and didn't want to take any more political risks.</span>

===2NC AT: Dickinson=== 
**Dickinson votes neg**
**Dickinson 09** (Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College. He taught previously at Harvard University, where he also received his Ph.D., working under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, We All Want a Revolution: Neustadt, New Institutionalism, and the Future of Presidency Research, Presidential Studies Quarterly 39 no4 736-70 D 2009)
Nonetheless, if Neustadt clearly recognizes that a…legislative preferences will come to a vote (Beckmann 2008, n.d.).

**Presidential leadership shapes the agenda**
**Kuttner 11** (Robert, Senior Fellow – Demos and Co-editor – American Prospect, “Barack Obama's Theory of Power,” The American Prospect, 5-16, http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power)
As the political scientist Richard Neustadt observed in…that often moves the public agenda.

===2NC AT: Obama Doesn't Push=== 
**Gridlock and GOP scuttling will force White House involvement. That drains capital.**
**Nance ‘12**
(Scott Nance is the editor and publisher of the news site The Washington Current. He has covered Congress and the federal government for more than a decade. The Democratic Daily – February 15, 2012 – lexis)
Partisanship has begun to overtake the…the rest went to liberal social engineering."

**Obama would have to push the plan for it to pass**
**Izadi 8/29** Elahe is a writer at the National Journal. “Former Sen. Trent Lott, Ex-Rep. Jim Davis Bemoan Partisanship on Energy Issues,” 2012, http://www.nationaljournal.com/2012-election/former-members-bemoan-partisanship-on-energy-issues-20120829
In a climate where everything from transportation…is there.… The middle is gone.”

===2NC AT: Bipartisan Turn=== 
**Link outweighs turn—capital key to bipart**
Dan **Balz**, “After a Bruising August, Time for Obama Team to Regroup,” WASHINGTON POST, 9—1—**09**, www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/09/01/AR2009090103741.html?hpid=topnews, accessed 9-4-09.
Former Senate majority leader Bob Dole and…and Bradley were saying Obama must lead.

===2NC AT: Lobbies Turn=== 
<span class="Underline">**Groups don’t impact the agenda**</span>
<span class="Underline">**INSIGHT ON THE NEWS 3**. [Sept 15 --lexis]</span>
<span class="Underline">Do we really have the best Congress money can…on voting, he concludes, is public opinion. </span>

===2NC AT: Public Turn=== 
**Political capital is key to the agenda and popularity is not**
**Bouie 11** (Jamelle, Journalist and Graduate – University of Virginia, “Political Capital,” The American Prospect, 5-5, http://prospect.org/csnc/blogs/tapped_archive?month=05&year=2011&base_name=political_capital)
Unfortunately, political capital isn't that straightforward…presidential success in Congress, but it's far from sufficient.

**Popularity is irrelevant**
**Detroit News 5** (January 23, Lexis)
Presidents don't have mandates. They have…wants to do, and nothing's going to stop him.

===2NC AT: Vote No=== 
**Counter Interpretation – SQ requires debate but only in committee – you get your argument, but the SQ no longer links**
**Tarr and O’Connor 3** (David and Ann, pg. http://corporate.cq.com/wmspage.cfm?parm1=231)
Once a bill has been introduced by a member…the committees to screen most of this legislation.

===2NC AT: Winners Win=== 
<span class="Underline">**Only blame sticks to him---means winners lose---healthcare proves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas & Hook 10** Peter and Janet, Staff Writers – LA Times, “Obama the Velcro president”, LA Times, 7-30, http://articles.latimes.com/2010/jul/30/nation/la-na-velcro-presidency-20100730/3</span>
<span class="Underline">If Ronald Reagan was the classic Teflon…it hasn't translated into dinner table conversations."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Winners lose---PC’s not renewable, is zero-sum, and diminishes fast**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ryan 9** Selwyn, Professor Emeritus and former Director, Institute of Social and Economic Research, University of the West Indies, “Obama and political capital,” 1/18 http://www.trinidadexpress.com/index.pl/article_opinion?id=161426968</span>
<span class="Underline">Like many, I expect much from Obama, who…strong constituency in cyberspace (the latent "Obama Party"). </span>

<span class="Underline">**PC is zero sum and finite---winners don’t win**</span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas **Hale 11** is a PhD Candidate in the Department of Politics at Princeton University and a Visiting Fellow at LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing” The Washington Quarterly, 2011, Google Scholar</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, on top of this structural bias, the…unlikely to surface for at least two years.</span>

**Obama overreaching threatens to collapse lame-duck – empirics prove**
**Miniter**, investigative journalist, **12**
(Richard, NYTimes best selling author, “Leading from Behind: The Reluctant President and the Advisors Who Decide for Him,” google books, 84-5, accessed 11-8-12, CMM)
After the historic defeat, Axelrod went…to take any more political risks.

**Political capital is key and zero-sum**
**Rottinghaus ’10** – Assistant Professor of Political Science at U of H [Brandon, Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, U of H-Town, “The Provisional Pulpit: Modern Presidential Leadership of Public Opinion”, page number below, CMR]
Similarly, other issues (countervailing elements) may…for battle against an averse Congress. [page 193-195]

**Obama thinks his capital only replenishes slowly**
Tom **Schaller**, “Is Obama Spending is Political, Wasting It… or Wuz He Robbed?” Five Thirty Eight, 8—18—**09**, www.fivethirtyeight.com/2009/08/is-obama-spending-his-political-capital.html, accessed 9-24-11.
2. Obama is investing now with an eye…rise back to pre-Summer '09 levels.

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: PC Low</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Yes capital, but just enough**</span>
<span class="Underline">Tim **Penny**, Star Tribune, **12/29**/12, Now, Obama will cement his economic legacy, www.startribune.com/opinion/commentaries/185098751.html?refer=y</span>
<span class="Underline">What are the lessons to be learned as…define Obamanomics for generations to come.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Fiscal Cliff**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC UQ [New Trier]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama has the influence to prevail in fiscal cliff negotiations now---political capital is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sprung**, Rochester PhD, **9-21-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Andrew, “Ezra Klein's unconvincing theory that Obama misunderstands (or misrepresents) "change”, http://xpostfactoid.blogspot.com/2012/09/ezra-kleins-unconvincing-theory-that.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">In my view, Klein is viewing this question…that women should make for themselves.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC UQ [Dowling]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Compromise to avert the fiscal cliff will happen now, but Obama’s PC is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Brodsky, 12/6/12** – Senior Fellow, Demos (Richard, December 6, 2012, “Negotiating the Fiscal Cliff,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/richard-brodsky/fiscal-cliff-negotiations_b_2245425.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Sadly, or inevitably, avoiding the fiscal cliff will…democracy, and right now that's not a done deal.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC UQ/Link [Blake]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama has momentum to secure a budget deal – infrastructure spending will gut compromise in the small window of opportunity to get a deal**</span>
<span class="Underline">Dick **Polman** (columnist for the Philadelphia Inquirer) **12/11**, Newsday, http://www.newsday.com/opinion/oped/polman-barack-obama-will-struggle-to-avoid-the-second-term-curse-1.4318688</span>
<span class="Underline">Obama won re-election by (at last count) 4.67…Richard Nixon shortly before he raised the curtain on Act Two.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ [New Trier]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Fiscal cliff will be avoided- Law makers are working together.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Reuters 9/12/12** ("Will Lame Duck Congress Save US From 'Fiscal Cliff?'" CNBC. www.cnbc.com/id/49119887)</span>
<span class="Underline">Slowly and quietly, Congress may be arriving at a…that would occur under current law.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Fiscal Cliff will be avoided now- Consensus of economists**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CNN 10/1/12** ("Economists: Fiscal Cliff a Serious Threat, but Unlikely." money.cnn.com/2012/10/01/news/economy/fiscal-cliff-economists/index.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Getting economists to agree on…or early in the new year. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Legislative focus on fiscal cliff now causes quick lame duck resolution of fiscal cliff—but focus key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Geewak**, NPR, **9-20-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Marilyn, “'Fiscal Cliff' Scenarios Leave Economists On Edge”, www.npr.org/2012/09/20/161442506/fiscal-cliff-scenarios-leave-economists-on-edge)</span>
<span class="Underline">Zandi is calling for a slightly better-than-even chance…fiddling takes up a lot of time, too.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ [Michigan]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama will resolve fiscal cliff- but he has to fight**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Fiscal Times 10/24/12** ("Obama Promises a Grand Bargain to Avoid the 'Cliff'"www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/10/24/Obama-Promises-a-Grand-Bargain-to-Avoid-the-Cliff.aspx#page1)</span>
<span class="Underline">President Obama voiced confidence this week…that big piece of business,” Obama said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Fiscal cliff will be defused**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NBC 10/31/12** ('Fiscal Cliff' Warnings Rise to (Overblown?) Fever Pitch." www.nbcnews.com/business/economywatch/fiscal-cliff-warnings-rise-overblown-fever-pitch-1C6710876)</span>
<span class="Underline">Though plausible, the scenario assumes that the next…of a deal later in the year.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama will resolve fiscal cliff**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Levy 10/29/12** (Pema, staff writter for TPM Livewire. "Obama: Win Would Give Mandate For Balanced Approach to Fiscal Cliff." livewire.talkingpointsmemo.com/entry/obama-win-would-give-mandate-for-balanced-approach)</span>
<span class="Underline">President Obama said that if re-elected, he…lot of the other stuff falls into place."</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ [Dowling]</span>=== 
**Fiscal cliff will pass—public pressure and negotiation improvements, but Obama push is key**
**Reuters, 12/6/12** (CSM, Thomas Ferraro, "Fiscal cliff debate: 'Lines of communication are open'", www.csmonitor.com/USA/Latest-News-Wires/2012/1206/Fiscal-cliff-debate-Lines-of-communication-are-open)
Asked the same question, Boehner spokesman Michael…proposals would hurt the middle class.

**Fiscal cliff negotiations coming now- obama’s influence is key- failre to negotiate crushes the economy**
**San Franscisco Chronicle 11/29**/12 ("Geithner Sets Congress Talks as Republicans Seek Cut Details" www.sfgate.com/business/bloomberg/article/Geithner-Sets-Congress-Talks-as-Republicans-Seek-4077254.php)
The president and Congress are negotiating a…overhauls the tax code and entitlement programs.

**Fiscal Cliff will be avoided- Obama’s influence is key**
**KCS 11/27**/12 (Kansas City Star. "Bipartisam 'Gangs' in Congress Ready for a Deal on Fiscal Cliff." www.kansascity.com/2012/11/26/3935625/bipartisan-gangs-in-congress-ready.html)
WASHINGTON -- Armies of lawmakers from both parties…believe it sends a very powerful message.”

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ [Blake]</span>=== 
**Will pass now but leadership is key for a deal**
**Bash 12/14/12** (Dana Senior Congressional Correspondent “Former Senate leaders: Here's how to make a deal” http://www.cnn.com/2012/12/14/politics/fiscal-cliff-daschle-lott/index.html)
Secret conversations on the balcony. A special…deals during secret talks out on a Capitol balcony.

**Despite public rhetoric negotiations intensifying – deal will happen**
**CBS News 12/12** “Inching closer to a 'fiscal cliff' deal?”, http://www.wtsp.com/news/national/article/286746/81/Inching-closer-to-a-fiscal-cliff-deal
Publicly, it sounded like the White House and…deal is reachable, "time is running short."

**Will pass – framework forming**
Richard **Cowan 12/12** “Obama, Boehner talk and exchange new offers on ‘fiscal cliff’”, http://www.livemint.com/Politics/5fAhYh6rEX7uQZVa1rY3kL/Obama-Boehner-talk-and-exchange-new-offers-on-fiscal-cliff.html
While senior figures from both parties…speculation that negotiations are going well.

**Will pass – Obama and Boehner making headway**
**Proformative 12/12** “U.S. Stocks Gain Amid Fiscal Cliff Speculation”, http://www.proformative.com/news/1495146/us-stocks-gain-amid-fiscal-cliff-speculation
U.S. stocks rose on December 11, as speculation…before the end of 2012, according to Bloomberg.

**Progress now – compromise forming**
Richard **Cowan 12/12** “Obama, Boehner talk and exchange new offers on ‘fiscal cliff’”, http://www.livemint.com/Politics/5fAhYh6rEX7uQZVa1rY3kL/Obama-Boehner-talk-and-exchange-new-offers-on-fiscal-cliff.html
Negotiations to avert the “fiscal cliff” ahead of a…said during his speech on the House floor.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Top Priority [New Trier]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**No other legislative issues to distract now—that allows Obama to lay the groundwork for fiscal cliff negotiations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sherman**, Politico, **9-19-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Jake, “Fiscal cliff talks heat up”, dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=5DC65BE5-1E61-4D5A-B8A5-8F73277AFD07)</span>
<span class="Underline">A jolt of reality is rippling through the Capitol as…will then recess until November. </span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC PC Key</span>=== 
**PC key to deal – will gain enough GOP votes**
Thomas E. **Mann** (Senior Policy Analyst at Brookings) **and** Norman J. **Ornstein** (American Enterprise Institute) **11/9** Reuters, http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2012/11/09/first-step-in-ending-dc/ “First Step in Ending DC Dysfunction”
Obama, for his part, will need to find…have planted the seeds of constructive change.

**Obama’s leadership is key to break legislative logjam ensures resolution of fiscal cliff**
**Hirschfeld Davis, 11/7** (Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Mike Dorning, 11/7/2012, “Obama Success on Fiscal Cliff May Hinge on Congress Ties,” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-success-on-fiscal-cliff-may-hinge-on-better-congress-ties.html)
President Barack Obama, his re- election victory…end, and interacting will help you do that,” Griffin said.

**PC is key – Obama has to maintain leverage**
**Harris 11/9** (Paul, “President Obama's second term: from soaring rhetoric to lame duck”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/nov/09/obama-second-term-soaring-rhetoric-lame-duck, CMR)
Indeed, the first few months of Obama's…concessions that infuriate his progressive supporters.

<span class="Underline">**Presidential leadership and leverage is key to prevent sequestration** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Ewing, 10/23** (Philip, 10/23/2012, “D.C. caught off guard by Obama sequester vow,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=BB4FD464-D051-4ACC-9172-29D6C9749D7F)</span>
<span class="Underline">President Barack Obama startled Washington during…undoing that provision in order to avoid it.”</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Timeframe</span>=== 
**Timeframe is immediate**
**Craig 12** Victoria Craig, "Fiscal Pitfalls Hinge on Gridlocked Congress," FOX BUSINESS, 9--24--12, http://www.foxbusiness.com/government/2012/09/20/fiscal-pitfalls-hinge-on-gridlocked-congress/
A fix for the national economy is not as…of the economy all comes down to politics.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Turns TI</span>=== 
**Turns the case – crushes transportation**
**Businesswire, 11/19/12** (November 19, 2012, “Fitch: Fiscal Cliff Could Trigger 2% Decline in GDP & Negatively Affect Transportation Demand,” http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20121119006302/en/Fitch-Fiscal-Cliff-Trigger-2-Decline-GDP)
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The Fiscal Cliff could…on a somewhat surer footing,' said McDermott.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Turns Energy</span>=== 
**Sequestration turns the case---creates investor uncertainty that prevents commercialization/adoption of new energy**
**Malone 9/26** Scott is a Reuters writer. “Analysis: Corporate America sweats as U.S. nears fiscal cliff,” 2012, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/27/us-usa-economy-fiscalcliff-idUSBRE88P1PX20120927
Top U.S. executives have less confidence in…send shockwaves across the economy.

**Fiscal cliff collapse energy funding**
**The Atlantic**, Editors, **5/7**/12, Who Will Save Clean Energy?, www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/05/who-will-save-clean-energy/256816/
The "fiscal cliff" refers to the double-whammy…energy sources will slow to a trickle.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Economy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Failure to deal with fiscal cliff for even a few months will wreck global economic growth**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zakaria, 11/12** (Fareed, Nov. 12, 2012, “Breaking the Deadlock,” http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2128309,00.html?xid=rss-mostpopular)</span>
<span class="Underline">Whether Barack Obama or Mitt Romney wins…Democrats weren't all that unhappy with the outcome.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Fiscal cliff independently turns economy – Recovery, employment, long-term growth and economic leadership**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Punaro, 12** Chief Executive Officer of the Punaro Group, LLC, a Washington based firm, senior corporate official responsible for Science Applications International Corporation, Secretary of Defense Panetta to chair the newly constituted Reserve Forces Policy Boar, et al., Micah Edmond, et al. al., 6-12, [Arnold, “Indefensible: The Sequester’s Mechanics and Adverse Effects on National and Economic Security,” Task Force on Defense Budget and Strategy | White Paper, http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/report/sequester]</span>
<span class="Underline">The economy is mired in a lackluster recovery…cuts threaten to derail the fragile recovery. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Causes downgrade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AP 9-12-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Associated Press, “Moody's set to downgrade US without budget deal”, http://www.indystar.com/viewart/20120912/BUSINESS/209120329/Moody-s-set-downgrade-US-without-budget-deal)</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. government's debt rating could be…led the nation to the brink of default.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Collapses economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maniere**, Seeking Alpha, **2011**</span>
<span class="Underline">(George, “U.S. Debt Downgrade and Its Consequences Too Close for Comfort”, 7-28, http://seekingalpha.com/article/282627-u-s-debt-downgrade-and-its-consequences-too-close-for-comfort, DOA: 9-27-12)</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite what you may have heard in…Brothers look like a day at the beach.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Perception Impact AKA The Round Winner AKA Slim Shady</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Independently the perception of not passing the fiscal cliff causes nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**McFarland 12** (KT McFarland, Distinguished Adviser to the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and served in national security posts in the Nixon, Ford and Reagan administrations, National Security Analyst, “Obama Unveils Defense Cuts While Iran Threatens War,” January 5, 2012, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/01/05/obama-unveils-defense-cuts-while-iran-threatens-war/)</span>
<span class="Underline">So how will President Obama’s decision to cut the…another half trillion dollars of cuts on the horizon.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Middle East War Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hutchinson**, US Senator, **9-21-12**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, lexis) </span>
<span class="Underline">Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America…growth and punish working families.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Global nuclear war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Primakov, 9** (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Russian Federation, Member – Russian Academy of Science, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, Russia in Global Affairs, 3, July/September, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/number/n_13593)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in terms of…not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Middle East War -- Terminal Impact Threshold</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Even a minor middle east war escalates globally and causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stirling, 11** — Governor & Lord Lieutenant of Canada, Lord High Admiral of Nova Scotia, & B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies (The Earl of Stirling, “General Middle East War Nears - Syrian events more dangerous than even nuclear nightmare in Japan”, March 2011, http://europebusines.blogspot.com/2011/03/general-middle-east-war-nears-syrian.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Saddam Hussein's military had prepared what…the global use of Advanced Biological Warfare. </span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Middle East War -- Terminal Impact Risk</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Risk is high and we control empirics** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kober**, a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, **10** [Stanley, May 12th, “Guns of August in the Middle East?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11805]</span>
<span class="Underline">Indeed, preparations for war on both sides…21st century has been characterized by war.</span>

===2NC Warming Impact=== 
**Success in fiscal cliff negotiations is key to Obama’s second term agenda---specifically warming**
**Montgomery and Goldfarb 11/6** Lori and Zachary are writer for the Washington Post. “Fresh from reelection, president finds himself on edge of ‘fiscal cliff’,” 2012, http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/decision2012/fiscal-cliff-clock-starts-in-earnest-as-election-fades-to-background/2012/11/06/c4dfde6e-27b2-11e2-b2a0-ae18d6159439_story.html
If Obama can engineer a compromise to…system can address a major issue.”

==<span class="Underline">**Immigration**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA [TOC]**</span>=== 
**Will pass – bipart key**
**Houston Chronicle 4/22** (“The week ahead: Bipartisanship in 2013 hinges on upcoming immigration reform vote”, http://blog.chron.com/txpotomac/2013/04/the-week-ahead-bipartisanship-in-2013-hinges-upon-upcoming-immigration-vote/,
As one bipartisan effort was rejected, another…bipartisanship in 2013, yielding congressional gridlock.

**Transportation investments are massively controversial**
**Benen 13** Steve, “The perilous future of infrastructure investments”, 2/15, http://maddowblog.msnbc.com/_news/2013/02/15/16975623-the-perilous-future-of-infrastructure-investments?lite,
The problem isn't with Irwin's thesis. On…tolerate the White House's socialistic ambitions.

**The plan poisons the well of cooperation --- prevents passage of future initiatives**
**Wallsten 12/8** (Peter Wallsten and Zachary A. Goldfarb, 12/8/2012, “Obama’s second-term agenda will be shadowed by budget woes,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obamas-second-term-agenda-will-be-shadowed-by-budget-woes/2012/12/08/ea97e956-4091-11e2-ae43-cf491b837f7b_story.html)
One House GOP leadership aide said Obama…politics, where he wins and . . . other people lose.”

**Key to the economy, competitiveness, and hegemony**
**Shapiro 3/27** --- president and CEO of the Consumer Electronics Association, the U.S. trade association representing more than 2,000 consumer electronics companies (Gary, “Tech Executives: Immigration Reform a Top Priority”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/garyshapiro/2013/03/27/tech-executives-immigration-reform-a-top-priority/,
Today I join hundreds of leaders in business, finance…our country’s immigration law is the first step.

**Extinction**
**Barnett 11** (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7,
Events in Libya are a further reminder for…the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

===<span class="Underline">**1NC UQ [MBA]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Immigration reform will pass now --- it’s a top priority and other issues don’t thump**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Huffington Post, 1-2**-2013, p. www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite a bruising fiscal cliff battle that…working together and singing 'Kumbaya,'" Sharry said.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC UQ [Berkeley]</span>=== 
**CIR on track to quick passage but Obama’s PC key to sustain consensus**
**Milani 2/8** (Kate, “Muñoz Interview: White House Expects Broad Immigration Bill”, http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2013/02/08/white-house-expects-broad-immigration-bill/
The White House point woman on immigration, Cecilia…political will and just making sure we get over the finish line.”

===<span class="Underline">1NC UQ [Districts]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama’s push ensures passage – sustained momentum and avoiding fights is key** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sink 2/19** (Justin, “Obama seeks to repair rift with Republicans on immigration reform”, http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/283877-obama-seeks-to-repair-rift-with-with-gop-on-immigration</span>
<span class="Underline">Republican support for the immigration package is…reforms this year.¶ “Both appear committed,” she said.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ [Berkeley]</span>=== 
**Will pass – momentum and bipartisanship emerging**
**CSM 2/12** http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2013/0212/Immigration-reform-Congress-Obama-and-public-are-not-so-far-apart
In spite of some disagreement among lawmakers…particularly on the pivotal issue of citizenship.

**Immigration will pass---sustained momentum’s key**
**Cohen 2/8** Micah is a writer for NYT’s 538 blog. “Signs of a Shift on Immigration Among G.O.P. Rank-and-File,” 2013, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/08/signs-of-a-shift-on-immigration-among-g-o-p-rank-and-file/
With notable speed after the Nov. 6 presidential…particular, to back some kind of reform.

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Thumper -- Debt Ceiling</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama avoids** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Helderman 1/2** (Rosalind, 1/2/2013, “After the ‘fiscal cliff’: When are the next battles in Congress?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/after-the-fiscal-cliff-when-are-the-next-battles-in-congress/2013/01/02/370700ac-54ff-11e2-a613-ec8d394535c6_story.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The “fiscal cliff” debate may be…not be drawn into such talks.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Thumper -- Fiscal Cliff</span>=== 
**Fiscal cliff battle increased, not decreased, the chances of immigration passing --- pushing it this month**
**Atlantic Wire, 1-2**-2013, p. www.theatlanticwire.com/politics/2013/01/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now/60525/
Everybody knew that Obama was going to tackle…in both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya.'"

**Doesn’t need to use his political capital and it will be resolved easily**
**Brodie 1/2/13** (Lee Brodie, citing Jim Cramer, Mad Money Host, 1/2/13, “Cramer: Don’t Fret Over Debt Ceiling” CNBC, http://www.cnbc.com/id/100349915)
"I feel like I'm surrounded by people who are…I want to see spending reined in very badly."

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Thumper -- Hagel</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama has political capital and didn’t waste any on nominations.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Elise **Jordan**, Former Speechwriter to Condoleezza Rice, **12-22**-2012, MSNBC</span>
<span class="Underline">ELISE JORDAN, FORMER SPEECHWRITER TO CONDOLEEZZA RICE: But at this…are, I mean, putting themselves on the line for him.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Delay Before Vote</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Top priority – won’t be consumed by other fights** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Timm 1/3** (Jane C, “With the cliff resolved, immigration back on the table”, http://tv.msnbc.com/2013/01/03/with-the-cliff-resolved-immigration-back-on-the-table/, CMR)</span>
<span class="Underline">While gun control, taxes, and the fiscal…was a “top priority” for his next four years.</span>


===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Executive Order Solves</span>=== 
**Only congressional action can effectively reform immigration**
**Leopold, 1/22** --- General Counsel and Past President, American Immigration Lawyers Association (1/22/2013, David, “Obama Takes Action on Guns and Immigration: Now It's Congress' Turn,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-leopold/congress-guns-immigration_b_2501651.html, CR)
I'm referring to what happened a little more…mismatched patchwork of policies and procedures.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Bill-Specific Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Still links --- the plan derails support --- causes massive backlash** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Jeffords 1/4/13** (Christine Jeffords, “Immigration Reform 2013: Obama Just Doesn’t Have Time For Serious Reform,” Policymic, http://www.policymic.com/articles/21928/immigration-reform-2013-obama-just-doesn-t-have-time-for-serious-reform)</span>
<span class="Underline">Of course, the fact is that immigration…resolved not to let it happen again.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC PC Key</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**PC is key and finite** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Nakamura 2/20** (David, “In interview, Obama says he has a year to get stuff done”, 2013, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-politics/wp/2013/02/20/in-interview-obama-says-he-has-a-year-to-get-stuff-done/</span>
<span class="Underline">President Obama[‘s] said Wednesday he’s…budget cuts, immigration reform and gun control.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama use to use pc to get everyone on board**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DALLAS MORNING NEWS**, editorial, "Actions Must Match Obama's Immigration Pledge," **1--2**--13, http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece</span>
<span class="Underline">President Barack Obama said all the right…comprehensive solution. Nothing but action will count.</span>

**Obama push building bipart consensus – but PC key to resolve outstanding issues**
**Star-Telegram 2/8** (“Group plans bipartisan push on immigration reform”, http://www.star-telegram.com/2013/02/08/4610238/group-plans-bipartisan-push-on.html, CMR)
The effort is also meant to underscore that…we need to weigh in immediately."

**Political capital is key to immigration**
**ABC News, 1-2**-2013, p. abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/things-president-obama-immigration-reform/story?id=18103115#.UOUq8onjkax
On Sunday, President Barack Obama said that…that direction, but he needs to follow through.

**Obama’s capital is key**
**Shifter, 12/27** --- adjunct professor of Latin American politics at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service (12/27/2012, Michael, Revista Ideel, “Will Obama Kick the Can Down the Road?” http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=3186)
There is, however, a notable change in…and time from other priorities like immigration.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Economy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Maintaining current high skill immigration flows key to the economy- job creation and innovation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schuck and Tyler 10** (Peter H. and John E., Simeon E. Baldwin Professor of Law at Yale University and a visiting professor at New York University School of Law; and Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, MAKING THE CASE FOR CHANGING U.S. POLICY REGARDING HIGHLY SKILLED IMMIGRANTS, Fordham Urban Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 1) </span>
<span class="Underline">b. Other Research Some studies suggest that immigrants have…jobs, thereby contributing to the growth of mature firms.</span>

**Impact is economic collapse**
**Milller 2/7** – former two-term elected Kentucky State Treasurer, Miller held several other senior positions in state and federal government, including serving in Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear’s Cabinet as Secretary of Finance and Administration, as Deputy Chief of Staff of the U.S. Department of Energy, and as Legislative Director for Congressman Jim Cooper (Jonathon, “Why Our Economy Demands Immigration Reform”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathanmiller/immigration-reform-economy_b_2639092.html,
When it comes to restoring strong, long-term…more job opportunity for all of our country.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Hegemony Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Turns hegemony -- Immigration reform is key to competitiveness** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kinnari 12/29** Aaron, founder of the Future Forum a platform for educating and engaging young leaders on important global issues, Immigration Reform Would Be the Biggest Gift We Could Get This Year. 12/29/12. http://www.policymic.com/articles/21633/immigration-reform-would-be-the-biggest-gift-we-could-get-this-year. CMR</span>
<span class="Underline">When it takes session in January, the…on giving for generations to come.</span>

**Key to hegemony – both hard and soft power**
**Nye 12/10**/12 (Joseph S. Nye, a former US assistant secretary of defense and chairman of the US National Intelligence Council, is University Professor at Harvard University, http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/obama-needs-immigration-reform-to-maintain-america-s-strength-by-joseph-s--nye
The United States is a nation of…to maintain the strength of the US.

**Extinction**
**Barnett 11** (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7,
Events in Libya are a further…stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

**Soft power solves all global problems**
**Nye ’12** (Joseph S, University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, “Diversifying American Power”, Sept, http://www.internationalrelations.com/2012/09/09/joseph-s-nye-jr-diversifying-american-power/,
The bottom chessboard is the realm of transnational…achieve its aims without the help of others.


===<span class="Underline">2NC Science Diplomacy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**PC is key --- it solves H1-B’s**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AP 12/12** (“Editorial Roundup: Excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers in the US and abroad”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/editorial-roundup-excerpts-from-recent-editorials-in-newspapers-in-the-us-and-abroad/2012/12/12/b6108852-447c-11e2-8c8f-fbebf7ccab4e_story.html, CMR)</span>
<span class="Underline">The immigration reform debate is over. The nativists…other are crass appeals to economic and political fears. ...</span>

<span class="Underline">**Key to science diplomacy – solves every transnational threat and turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Pickering et al 10** [Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering served as under secretary of State from 1997 to 2000 and chairs the advisory council of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation. Dr. Peter Agre, director of the Johns Hopkins Malaria Research Institute and president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, won the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry. They are among the signers of a bipartisan statement by the Partnership for a Secure America on the use of science in American diplomacy: www.psa online.org/ science. “POLITICAL SCIENCE; MORE OPPORTUNITIES NEEDED FOR U.S. RESEARCHERS TO WORK WITH THEIR FOREIGN COUNTERPARTS”, Baltimore Sun, Feb 9, lexis]</span>
<span class="Underline">In 1979, a science and technology agreement…government support other than travel visas.</span>

===2NC Terrorism Impact=== 
**Solves terrorism**
Margaret **Stock**, Associate Professor, Law, USMA, "The Need for Comprehensive Immigration Reform: Strengthening Our national Security," Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 5--17--**05**, http://kyl.senate.gov/legis_center/subdocs/051705_stock.pdf
Before I focus on the issues of comprehensive…modern world they really start at our consulates abroad.

==<span class="Underline">**Jackson-Vanik**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC UQ [Niles]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Will pass this month – Obama pushing and WTO timeframe – key to relations** </span>
<span class="Underline">**The Moscow Times 9/9** ‘Clinton Confirms Chance of Trade Deal This Month”, http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/clinton-confirms-chance-of-trade-deal-this-month/467819.html</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. Congress may upgrade trade relations with Russia…last month, a move the United States strongly supported.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**JV will be repealed – push from Obama and business lobbies – key to relations** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Fedyashin 8/24/12** (Andrey, “U.S. businessmen urge Congress to abolish Jackson-Vanik”, http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_08_24/U-S-businessmen-urge-Congress-to-abolish-Jackson-Vanik/, CMR)</span>
<span class="Underline">U.S. businessmen and the country`s leading research…which has nothing to do with trade."</span>

<span class="Underline">**A major push from Obama is key to passage** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Palmer, 4/26** (Doug, 4/26/2012, Reuters News, “UPDATE 2-US Republican urges Obama push on Russia trade bill,” Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Reuters) - A top Republican lawmaker pressed…this important step for American businesses and workers."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama pushing** </span>
<span class="Underline">**WSJ 9/10** “Russia Trade Vote Looks Delayed Until After Election”, http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2012/09/10/russia-trade-vote-looks-delayed-until-after-election/</span>
<span class="Underline">Last week, Francisco Sanchez, deputy undersecretary for…engage Congress constructively until the bill is passed.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama’s commitment ensures passage – key to PNTR and boosting exports** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Needham 8/22/12** (Vicki, “Push continues to normalize trade relations with Russia”, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/244775-push-continues-to-normalize-trade-relations-with-russia, </span>
<span class="Underline">Business groups and lawmakers continued to press…another opportunity to grow our exports.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**Passage likely** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Reuters 8/21/12** (“US business hopeful Congress passes Russia trade bill in Sept”, http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/08/21/usa-russia-trade-idINL2E8JL96Z20120821, </span>
<span class="Underline">Business groups, which have been working for…probably would be a disadvantage for U.S. business."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama will push after the break – builds momentum** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Needham 8/27/12** (Vicki, “Treasury official presses for passage of Russia trade bill”, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/245735-treasury-officials-presses-for-passage-of-russia-trade-bill,) </span>
<span class="Underline">The Obama administration renewed calls on Monday for…opportunities," she told reporters Monday. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC PC Key**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**PC key to repeal** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Moscow Times ‘12** “Margelov Hopes Jackson-Vanik Will Be Repealed in 2012,” 4/5/12 http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/margelov-hopes-jackson-vanik-will-be-repealed-in-2012/456160.html</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States will raise the issue of discussing the…been doing so very seriously and professionally," he said.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC PC Key</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**A major push from Obama is key to passage** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Palmer, 4/26** (Doug, 4/26/2012, Reuters News, “UPDATE 2-US Republican urges Obama push on Russia trade bill,” Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Reuters) - A top Republican lawmaker pressed…important step for American businesses and workers."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama’s time investment and capital are key to passage --- business interests alone not enough**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Inside U.S. Trade, 1/13** (“WHITE HOUSE UNDER PRESSURE TO DO HEAVY LIFTING ON RUSSIA MFN VOTE,” 1/13/2012, Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">Permanent MFN for Russia is coming to the forefront…do not carry the same clout, this aide said.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Economy Impact**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Repeal is key to U.S. economy --- Russia is a vital market**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Verona, 3/29** --- president & CEO of the U.S.-Russia Business Council (3/29/2012, Ed, “The True Cost of Jackson-Vanik,” http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/the-true-cost-jackson-vanik-6702)</span>
<span class="Underline">Free-Trade Watershed Diverted? Russia’s imminent…to Russia—not for Russia, but for America.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Russia Democracy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Increased economic engagement key to human rights and democracy in Russia** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Vanetik 8/8/12** – Lincoln Fellow at the Claremont Institute and a national board member of Gen Next (Yuri, “U.S. Should Expand Trade Ties With Russia”, http://news.investors.com/article/621498/201208081856/us-should-normalize-russia-trade-ties.htm?p=full, CMR)</span>
<span class="Underline">Russia still has a long way to go in terms…rights, or corruption at the ballot box.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goodby ‘2** (James E., Former Fellow – US Institute of Peace, and Piet Buwalda and Dmitriĭ Trenin, A Strategy for Stable Peace: Toward a Euroatlantic Security Community, p. 27-29)</span>
<span class="Underline">A decade after the Cold War was solemnly buried, there…of some form of authoritarian and paternalistic rule.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Russia Relations Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Jackson-Vanik repeal sets the tone for US-Russia relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gvosdev ‘12** Nikolas, faculty of the U.S. Naval War College “The Realist Prism: Resetting the U.S.-Russia Reset,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11441/the-realist-prism-resetting-the-u-s-russia-reset</span>
<span class="Underline">An upcoming decision-point could offer a good indication of…a fatal blow to the whole idea of the reset.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Relations solve several scenarios for extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Allison & Blackwill, 11** --- * director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, AND senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration (10/30/2011, Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">House Speaker John Boehner recently delivered a fiery…or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Russia Relations Impact -- AT: Alt Cause**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**U.S. working to convince Russia on missile defense and Syria**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RIA Novosti, 3/23**** (“U.S. Baffled by Russian America-Bashing – McFaul,” 3/23/2012, Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States will continue with their efforts to…mission in Afghanistan, as reasons for optimism.</span>

=Riders= 
==Gun Research Ban [TOC]== 
===1NC DA=== 
**Laws restricting gun-violence research will be attached to the aff – it erodes law enforcement and ensures gun violence**
**Robertson 4/8/13** (Tod Roberston, writer for Dallas Morning News, "Gun Lobby's Use of Riders to Sneak Past Past Legislative Debate", Dallas News, dallasmorningviewsblog.dallasnews.com/2013/04/23809.html/)
We might have a serious problem with…that the gun lobby has deliberately created.

**To be complicit with gun violence is to be complicit with a culture of violence and catastrophic nuclear war- it’s a prior question because it determines the society we seek to become**
**Krieger 12** (David Krieger, founder of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, and has served as President of the Foundation since 1982. 12/21/12. "The Newtown Challenge to America," Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, www.wagingpeace.org/articles/db_article.php?article_id=430)
The loss of innocent lives to gun violence is a…imperfect, the future is in our hands.
=Elections= 
==<span class="Underline">**GOP Congress**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Congress is perceived as do-nothing because of the GOP—that forces the GOP to take the blame for the lousy economy and lose the election**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Creamer, 11** (Robert Creamer, political organizer, consultant, strategist, and author, "'Do-Nothing Republican Congress' Could Sink GOP in 2012", www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/do-nothing-republican-con_b_1079569.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Republicans in Congress have made a…recovery for their own political gain.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The immediate action of the plan without compromise or argumentation by Congress kills the perception of the GOP as do-nothing**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Condon, 8/15/12** (Stephanie Condon, Political Reporter for CBS, former Washington correspondent for CNET Networks, BA in Communication, minor in Economics, Stanford University, CBS News, "Report: Congress on pace to be least productive since World War II", www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-57493537-503544/report-congress-on-pace-to-be-least-productive-since-world-war-ii/)</span>
<span class="Underline">(CBS News) The partisan gridlock in this year's Congress…"sequester" cuts Congress would like to avoid.</span>

<span class="Underline">**What Obama can get done in a second term depends solely on what Congress will let him do**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Klein, 5/5/12** (Ezra Klein, B.A. in political science, columnist at the Washington Post, "What would Obama do in a second term?", www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/what-would-obama-do-in-a-second-term/2012/05/04/gIQAj4E61T_blog.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">“In a second term,” Mitt Romney darkly warned…to make us independent of foreign oil.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama winning the election is key to prevent Israel strikes on the Iranian nuclear program**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hayden 2/19** (By Tom Hayden 2/19/12 The coming war with Iran Is GOP rhetoric setting the stage for an Israeli attack? http://www.newsreview.com/sacramento/coming-war-with-iran/content?oid=5104826 - BRW)</span>
<span class="Underline">Standing in the way, according to…any organized force has his back.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Iran Israel war causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hirsch 5** - Professor @ UC San Diego (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Bush administration has put together all…to erase Earth's population many times over.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Overview**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama will be pushing for infrastructure improvements—Romney collapses that – turns the case—evidence should supersede the durability of fiat**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bialosky, 7/30/12** (Bruce Bialosky, former Presidential appointee, "Obama's Second Term", townhall.com/columnists/brucebialosky/2012/07/30/obamas_second_term/page/full/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Obama went on to say that while his…on clean energy, and spend more on infrastructure.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC AT: Link Uniqueness**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The transportation bill was a huge political fight—GOP only passed it because they were in a time crunch**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chokshi, 6/19/12** (Niraj Chokshi, staff writer for National Journal, "Hoyer to GOP: Don't Punt on Transportation, influencealley.nationaljournal.com/2012/06/hoyer-to-gop-dont-punt-on-tran.php)</span>
<span class="Underline">With hopes of a compromise transportation bill fading…risk halting infrastructure projects across the country.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This card answers maybe your only argument**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Politico 9/9** (http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/80965_Page2.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">With the convention pomp and pageantry over, another…nothing political about the hearing’s timing.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Obama Good**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC UQ [Georgetown]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama wins – 4 reasons – Job Approval, polling, precedent, and likability** </span>
<span class="Underline">Sean **Trende** (Senior Elections Analyst for RealClearPolitics) **9/19** “State of the Race, Part 1: Why Obama Wins”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2012/09/19/state_of_the_race_part_1_why_obama_wins_115499.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Overall, I see Obama as a slight favorite. Most analysts…why Obama wins this election. Tomorrow, Romney's case.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ -- Battleground States</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama is winning in key battleground states now, but it’s not too late for Romney.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas **Beaumont** **and** Charles **Babington**, Associated Press, **9-24-2012**, Tide Shifts to Obama In Most Competitive States, Manila Bulletin, p. www.mb.com.ph/articles/374504/tide-shifts-to-obama-in-most-competitive-states</span>
<span class="Underline">In a presidential race seemingly frozen in place for…lifetime,’’ said Rich Beeson, Romney’s political director.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ -- Forecasts</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Majority of forecasts says Obama will win.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Erin **Rice, 9-23-2012**, Obama Wins Popular Vote, Predict 8 out of 13 Forecasts, USA Election News, p. uselectionnews.org/obama-wins-popular-vote-predict-8-out-of-13-forecasts/</span>
<span class="Underline">20 eminent political scientists of the country have…to the closeness of their predictions back in 2008.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: UQ Overwhelms</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama has no room for error – Romney has not collapsed and the economy will keep the race close**</span>
<span class="Underline">Rick **Wilson** (national Republican media and strategy consultant) **9/23** “Mitt's not over yet Romney could still win in November”, Daily News, http://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/mitt-article-1.1165152</span>
<span class="Underline">If voters went to the polls this minute, President…to reexamine the basic campaign dynamics</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: UQ Overwhelms -- Gaffes</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Romney gaffes have not cost him the election- Obama is leading BUT Romney can still turn it around**</span>
<span class="Underline">Chris **Cassidy** **and** Christine **McConville 9/24** “Romney, Obama neck-and-neck in latest polls”, Boston Herald, http://news.bostonherald.com/news/us_politics/view/20220924a_nation_evenly_divided/srvc=home&position=0</span>
<span class="Underline">GOP nominee Mitt Romney’s two weeks of taking…Obama gaffe, Romney still has an uphill battle.</span>


===<span class="Underline">**1NC TI Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – fear of waste and don’t see the upside.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Orski ‘12**</span>
<span class="Underline">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>
<span class="Underline">Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in…down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC TI Link -- Wasteful Spending**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation funding is distinct from other wasteful spending – triggers unique public backlash unique –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**a) key symbolism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pittsburgh Post Gazette, 9** (5/18)</span>
<span class="Underline">"I think that transparency is a good thing. Some of the biggest…wasteful pork barrel spending.</span>

<span class="Underline">**b) most visible earmarking**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Natter, ‘8** (Ari, Columnist @ Bloomberg news, Ranking Member Transportation Committee, Pacific Shipper, 11/3, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps more than any national campaign in recent…senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That’s electoral suicide – no perception of economic benefit and fiscal discipline is top issue for key independent voters**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schoen, 10**</span>
<span class="Underline">Douglas, Schoen, who served as a pollster for President Bill Clinton, is author of "Declaring Independence: The Beginning of the End of the Two-Party System.", NY Daily News, 7/11, http://articles.nydailynews.com/2010-07-11/news/29438716_1_fiscal-discipline-swing-voters-president-obama</span>
<span class="Underline">What Bam can learn from Bill: President…impact on the deficits, are prescribing electoral suicide.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Climate Change Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Climate change unpopular**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Munro 12** (Neil, http://dailycaller.com/2012/05/30/democrats-squirm-at-solyndra-vs-bain-questions/</span>
<span class="Underline">“Democrats squirm at Solyndra vs. Bain questions” 5-30-12, twm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Republicans are scoffing at Democrats’ attempts to explain…administration officials sat in on board meetings,” Pounder said.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Highways Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Highway funding is uniquely unpopular – public has lost all confidence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**A.G.C. ‘11**</span>
<span class="Underline">(“THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity” – THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA – AGC’s Case for Infrastructure & Reform in based in large part on comments from leaders, including those who participated in a March 2, 2011 panel discussion hosted by the association and The Weekly Standard, including Reason Foundation’s Robert Poole, Virginia Secretary of Transportation Sean Connaughton, Oklahoma Congressman James Lankford and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Bruce Josten. May 19th – http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Just because our federal infrastructure investments have delivered…of all forms of revenue collection in the U.S. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Ports Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is unpopular with the public**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tirschwell 08** — Senior Adviser of the Journal of Commerce (Peter, “Ports face uphill climb in gaining acceptance”, Seaports Magazine, Winter, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Winter2008.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">The simple fact is one that’s hardly inspiring or…greater understanding and acceptance from the community. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Russia Relations Impact**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Romney kills US-Russia relations --- overwhelms resilience.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Economist, 9-1-2012**, Romney Could Screw Up US Relations with Russia, Business Insider, p. www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romneys-foreign-policy-chops-come-into-light-2012-9, accessed 9-2-2012</span>
<span class="Underline">Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate in the US presidential…Russia as targeted by malevolent, interfering Western powers.</span>

<span class="Underline">**U.S. Russian relations solve every impact** </span>
<span class="Underline">**CFR Task Force 06** [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, American…if relations with Russia are on a positive track.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Relations Solve Everything**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Relations solve several scenarios for extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Allison & Blackwill, 11** --- * director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, AND senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration (10/30/2011, Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">House Speaker John Boehner recently delivered a fiery indictment of…to U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>