[[toc]]
**Go to this page for __Politics/Elections__:** [[GBN CH -- Politics DA]]
=Disadvantage= 
==<span class="Underline">**Buy America DA**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA**</span>=== 
**The world’s on the brink of massive protectionism---new policies could push us over the edge**
**FT 4-15**, citing the director-general of the WTO “FINANCIAL TIMES: Beware rising protectionism,” 2013, Business Day Live, http://www.bdlive.co.za/opinion/editorials/2013/04/15/financial-times-beware-rising-protectionism
WITH only a few months left before his…reported that protectionist policies are rising.

**Federal TI investment in the U.S. requires contractors to abide with “Buy America” provisions**
**Morton, 5-10-’12** (Peter, “Buy America spectre rises again” Hamilton Spectator, lexis)
Canadian companies hoping to bid on the…Obama brought in a $787-billion economic stimulus bill.

**“Buy America” projects threaten global protectionism and economic collapse**
**Oppenheimer, 2/5/2009** (Andres – Latin America correspondent for the Miami Herald, Reject ‘Buy American’ clause or risk a trade war, The Salt Lake Tribune, p. Lexis)
Forget about Iraq, the Middle East or searching for…signal it sends to the rest of the world.

**And – extinction**
**Auslin 9** (Michael, Resident Scholar – AEI, “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)
As they deal with a collapsing world economy…that have destroyed international systems in the past.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
==<span class="Underline">**Clean Tech Trade-Off**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**US is leading the clean-tech race now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Swartz 11** </span>
<span class="Underline">Jon, May, “Big companies aggressively jump into clean tech,” http://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/2011-05-25-green-tech-investing_n.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">A few years ago, investing in green technology…huge, transformational picture" in energy use, he says.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<link>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Clean tech leadership averts global war – independently turns warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Klarevas 9** – Professor of Global Affairs</span>
<span class="Underline">Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html</span>
<span class="Underline">By not addressing climate change more…can be employed to keep potential foes in check.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Overview**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**Heg solves great power war – empirics**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barnett, 11** [Thomas P.M. Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]</span>
<span class="Underline">Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans…forms, deeply embedded in the geometry to come. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Uniqueness**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Clean energy investments high despite challenges** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cuttino 5/16/12** – Director, Pew Clean Energy Program (Phyllis, “A Bright Future for Renewable Energy” Huffington Post Green, May 16 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/phyllis-cuttino/a-bright-future-for-renewable-energy_b_1521445.html)MR </span>
<span class="Underline">The current market for the renewable energy…overall, including an unprecedented 30 gig watts of solar.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Clean tech investment is coming now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Koch 11**</span>
<span class="Underline">Wendy, “U.S. clean tech companies get more venture capital,” USA Today, http://content.usatoday.com/communities/greenhouse/post/2011/11/us-solar-clean-tech-support-strong/1</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite the recent bankruptcies of two federally…Ernst & Young's Jay Spencer in announcing the findings.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC CCS Link**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan undercuts the political will for renewables**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Parfomak and Folger 7** - *Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Resources, Science, and Industry Division, Specialist in Energy Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division</span>
<span class="Underline">Paul and Peter, CRS Report for Congress, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues,” Scholar</span>
<span class="Underline">In addition to these issues, Congress may…broader array of energy and environmental policies.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC CCS Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**CCS doesn’t solve and trades off with renewables—multiple warrants**</span>

<span class="Underline">**a) Delay**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Risbey 8** – research climatologist (Dr. James, “\'Clean\' coal fraud — renewables now!” Green Left, April 26 2008, http://www.greenleft.org.au/node/39431)MR</span>
<span class="Underline">The problem with CCS, in a nutshell, is that…to prevent emissions crossing a tipping point. </span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Human capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mills 11** - *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge (Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book)</span>
<span class="Underline">These clusters can save costs, couple power…and Physical Science Research Council (EPSRC).51</span>

<span class="Underline">**c) Venture capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mills 11** - *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge (Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book)</span>
<span class="Underline">Universities, professional training and development…might be enough to get to a prototype.137</span>

<span class="Underline">**d) Reliance on fossil fuels**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tady 7** - national political reporter</span>
<span class="Underline">Megan, “Carbon Capture: Miracle Cure for Global Warming, or Deadly Liability?,” Alternet, http://www.alternet.org/environment/68490/?page=4</span>
<span class="Underline">But to others, CCS is a bridge that should never…shouldn't have been built in the first place."</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC CCS Link -- AT: Link Turn</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Renewables alone solve—CCS delays action and trades off with real solutions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Risbey 8** **–** research climatologist (Dr. James, “\'Clean\' coal fraud — renewables now!” Green Left, April 26 2008, http://www.greenleft.org.au/node/39431)//MR</span>
<span class="Underline">Supporters of CCS argue that it is one solution…efforts to confront climate change if we let it.</span>

==Coercion== 
===1NC DA=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan’s social engineering by transportation is coercive**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Toole 10** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute (Randal, “Fixing Transit The Case for Privatization”, 11/10, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/PA670.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Since people do not live in patterns that are conducive…opened their first new rail lines after 1976.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Decision rule – reject every instance** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Petro 74** (Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest…emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is coercive --- violates liberty**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Younkins, 2k** (Dr. Edward W. Younkins, Professor of Accountancy and Business Administration at Wheeling Jesuit University in West Virginia, “Civil Society: The Realm of Freedom,” No 63, 6-10-2000, http://www.quebecoislibre.org/000610-11.htm, JMP) </span>
<span class="Underline">Recently (and ironically), government projects and…politicians « solve » our problems and run our lives. </span>

==Downgrade== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Fiscal cliff has softened the outlook for Moody’s downgrade but a downgrade could be coming --- injecting the plan’s investment now triggers the downgrade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Newman 1/3/13** (Rick Newman, US News, “What Will Cause the Next U.S. Credit Downgrade,” http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/rick-newman/2013/01/03/what-will-cause-the-next-us-credit-downgrade)</span>
<span class="Underline">The agencies that rate sovereign debt…downgrades seem likely. Here's what could trigger them:</span>

<span class="Underline">**Unique link --- federal infrastructure investment through the plan wrecks destroys federal credit**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Elmendorf 08** (Doug Elmendorf, Senior Fellow in Economic Studies at Brookings, “An Economic Strategy for Investing in America’s Infrastructure,” July 2008, http://www.bafuture.org/sites/default/files/Hamilton%20Project%207%2008.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">However, opponents of this approach raise important…of public money in the regular budget process.</span>

<span class="Underline">**New downgrade collapses the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldwein 11** (Marc Goldwein, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, 8/11, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/)</span>
<span class="Underline">What are the consequences of further downgrades? The…one available to bail out the U.S. government. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Hanlon, 12** (Kenneth Lieberthal, Director of the China Center, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “The Real National Security Threat: America’s Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 3, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/03/opinion/la-oe-ohanlon-fiscal-reform-20120703)</span>
<span class="Underline">Why is this situation so serious? First, we…less stable. Major war will become more likely.</span>
===<span class="Underline">**2NC Overview**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Hanlon, 12** (Kenneth Lieberthal, Director of the China Center, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “The Real National Security Threat: America’s Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 3, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/03/opinion/la-oe-ohanlon-fiscal-reform-20120703)</span>
<span class="Underline">Why is this situation so serious? First, we are…in this rut, getting out will be very hard. </span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Empirically Denied</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**This time is different --- resiliency mechanisms that applied before no longer apply**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Levine 1/3/13** (Deborah Levine, Market Watch, The Wall Street Journal, “Why the Next U.S. Downgrade Will Really Matter,” http://blogs.marketwatch.com/thetell/2013/01/03/why-the-next-u-s-downgrade-will-really-matter/)</span>
<span class="Underline">“This downgrade is likely to have a…portfolio to maintain their average rating,” Porcelli said. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC China Economy Impact**</span>=== 
**The plan’s fiscal irresponsibility increases the debt and forces China to back down --- this triggers Chinese economic and political collapse**
**Foster 09** (J.D., Foster received his doctorate in economics from Georgetown University, his master's degree in economics from Brown University, and bachelor's degrees in economics and mathematics from the University of Colorado. “Will China Keep Buying Our Debt?”, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2009/02/will-china-keep-buying-our-debt)
Some suspect the Chinese are building financial…political implosion of China itself would be near-certain.

**Every dollar counts**
**Rumbelow 11** (Helen, staff writer, the Australian, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/pentagon-prepares-for-economic-warfare/story-e6frg6so-1226118380617)
Yet this was no traditional battle game, but…to a new kind of bloodless but ruthless war.

**Chinese economic failure leads to global nuclear war**
**Plate, 3** (Tom, Prof Communications and Public – UCLA, Straights Times, 6-28)
But imagine a China disintegrating -- on its…very direction the White House now seems to prefer.

**Political instability alone causes nuclear and biological warfare**
**Renxing, 5** (San, The Epoch Times “The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed”, 8/5/2005, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)
Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it would…one billion people hostage and gamble with their lives.

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Hegemony Impact**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan’s fiscal irresponsibility collapses American primacy and causes dangerous power vacuums --- independently jacks dollar value**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Holmes 09** (Kim R. Holmes, Vice President, Heritage Foundation, former Assistant Secretary of State, “Massive Debt Will Drive America's Decline,” Washington Times, October 29, 2009, http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-210730260.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Other ruinous scenarios are possible as well. Suppose…that completely sets us apart from other nations. </span>

===**<span class="Underline">2NC NASA Impact</span>**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Runaway fiscal irresponsibility causes NASA and space science cuts** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Billings 08** (Lee Billings, Senior Associate Editor of Seed Magazine, “America's space agency faces uncertain future on its 50th anniversary,” Seed Magazine, October 1, 2008, http://seedmagazine.com/content/article/what_future_for_nasa/)</span>
<span class="Underline">NASA’s 2009 budget is about $18 billion. For…greatest gift to current and near-future generations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Solves all war --- robust funding is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Logsdon 07** (Dr. John M. Logsdon - Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, Research professor of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, March 2007, Volume 3 Number 2, pg. http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/DrLogsdon_HF_Article.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">This question has been eloquently addressed by…be less likely to pursue conflict in other arenas. </span>

<span class="Underline">**NASA science cuts also cause extinction --- multiple environmental catastrophes**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Killeen 5** (Timothy L. Killeen, Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">NASA Earth science programs have played a key role…reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Price Blimps Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It causes dollar spikes --- even blips kill over a billion in the short-term**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tampa Tribute 96** (Tampa Tribune January 20, 1996)</span>
<span class="Underline">In 1995, world production failed to meet demand…developing world who live on a dollar a day or less."</span>

==Ethanol== 
===1NC DA=== 
**<link>**

**Large-scale ethanol causes extinction**
**Patzek 08** (Tad Patzek, professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at UC-Berkeley, 2008, “Can the Earth Deliver the Biomass-for-Fuel we Demand,” in Biofuels, Solar, and Wind as Renewable Energy Systems, ed. Pimentel, p. 36-44)
<span class="Underline">Physics, chemistry and biology say clearly that…gasoline- and diesel-powered cars and trucks.</span>

===1NC Port Dredging Link=== 
**The plan bolsters the ethanol industry and leads to global success**
**Nachtmann and Pohl 11** – Heather Nachtmann and Letitia Pohl 2011 [July Ph.D. from Arkansas and writers for the Mack-Blackwell Rural Transportation Center and the National Transportation Security Center of Excellence “Sustaining Resilient Inland Waterways via Renewable Energy” http://www.uark.edu/rd_engr/MBTC/MBTC_DHS_1108.pdf]
<span class="Underline">Over 60% of farm exports move on inland…of grain exports shipped on the rivers.</span>

===2NC Port Dredging Link=== 
**Cost is key – that means only the plan solves the ethanol industry**
**NEED 09** (National Energy Education Development Project, a project that releases publications by experts to inform students and teachers about renewable energy, “Energy and Our Rivers,” http://www.riverworksdiscovery.org/downloads/need_curriculum/StudentBackgrounder.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The cost to transport goods is an important…mile, making it the most economical choice.</span>

**Data proves that water transportation is key – only barges have the capacity to save the industry**
**NEED 09** (National Energy Education Development Project, a project that releases publications by experts to inform students and teachers about renewable energy, “Energy and Our Rivers,” http://www.riverworksdiscovery.org/downloads/need_curriculum/StudentBackgrounder.pdf)
<span class="Underline">What transportation mode will allow for the greatest…tons 30,240 gallons Barge 1,500 tons 453,000 gallons</span>

===**2NC Monocultures Impact**=== 
**Biomass leads to monocultures**
**Charlesworth 08** (Andrew Charlesworth, Business Green, 7/04/08, “Biofuels push up food prices, says report,” http://www.businessgreen.com/ business-green/news/2220780/ biofuels-push-food-prices)
<span class="Underline">ActionAid estimates that the 82 per cent rise…of arable land into biofuel mono-cropping. </span>

**Extinction**
**Fowler and Mooney, 90**** (Cary and Pat, “Rural Advancement Fund International, Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity”, 1990, pg. ix)
<span class="Underline">While many may ponder the consequences of…blight to Africa, Latin America and Asia.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Freight Rail Trade-Off</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC DA**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Freight railroad industry is strong now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**ZIR 6/5/12** (Zacks Investment Research, “Railroad Stocks Deliver Stellar Growth,” Minyanville, http://www.minyanville.com/trading-and-investing/stocks/articles/transportation-transportation-sector-railroads-railroad-stocks/6/5/2012/id/41428?page=full)</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite the uncertainties surrounding the demand…backbone of the railroad freight business. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<link>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**This kills the chemical industry – rail is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weinstein 98** – THE IMPACTS OF THE UNION PACIFIC SERVICE DISRUPTIONS ON THE TEXAS AND NATIONAL ECONOMIES: AN UNFINISHED STORY Prepared for the Railroad Commission of Texas by Bernard L. Weinstein, Ph.D. and Terry L. Clower, Ph.D. Center for Economic Development and Research The University of North Texas Denton, Texas February 9, 1998</span>
<span class="Underline">The Gulf Coast's $105 billion chemical industry…over the next six to twelve months.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Baum 99** (Rudy M. Baum, C&EN Washington, “Millennium Special Report,” Chemical and Engineering News, American Chemical Society, Volume 77, Number 49, December 6, 1999, http://pubs.acs.org/cen/hotarticles/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Here is the fundamental challenge we face: The…basic and not-so-basic needs. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Overview**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Link alone turns the case – no raw materials**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AAR 11** (Association of American Railroads, “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” October 2011, http://aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx)</span>
<span class="Underline">Railroads also carry millions of carloads…metal for recycling, and much more.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Uniqueness**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It was the best June ever for the industry – we control uniqueness**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldmark 7/6/12** (Alex Goldmark, “U.S. Freight Rail Has Biggest June Ever,” Transportation Nation, http://transportationnation.org/2012/07/06/u-s-freight-rail-has-biggest-june-ever/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Association for American Railroads released their weekly…232,682 containers and trailers, a 25.7% increase.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Prefer statistical analysis**</span>
<span class="Underline">**BTS, 7/11/12** (Bureau of Transportation Statistics, “Freight Shipments Unchanged in May from April”, 7/11/12, http://www.bts.gov/press_releases/2012/bts033_12/html/bts033_12.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Trend: Freight shipments in May 2012 (109.6) were at…of the June index is scheduled for Aug. 8.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC HSR Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan collapses freight operations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Economist 10** (The Economist, “High-Speed Railroading,” July 22, 2010, http://www.economist.com/node/16636101)</span>
<span class="Underline">But the problem with America’s plans for high-speed rail…Don Phillips, a rail expert in Virginia.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC HSR Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Congestion is another link – this jacks capacity** </span>
<span class="Underline">The Economist 10 (The Economist, “High-Speed Railroading,” July 22, 2010, http://www.economist.com/node/16636101)</span>
<span class="Underline">The emergence of express intercity rail…parked while intercity expresses speed by.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC SSS Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan crushes freight rail – steals the market**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Raymond, 05** (Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits,” http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Water, especially along the coastlines, offers…commitment on the part of U.S. political leaders.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC SSS Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It’s reverse casual – the plan decks rail and absent the plan, rail will increase**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maritime Executive 12** – (“Gibbs Holds Hearing on Economic Importance of Inland Waterway System,” Maritime Executive, 4/19, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/gibbs-holds-hearing-on-economic-importance-of-inland-waterway-system, Report on hearing: U.S. Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Chairman of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director, Soy Transportation Coalition, Robert Dolence, Vice President, Leonardo Technologies Inc. (LTI), Major General John Peabody, Mississippi River Valley Division, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, chaired…would produce significant national economic impacts.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Competitiveness Impact**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Key to competitiveness**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AAR 11** (Association of American Railroads, “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” October 2011, http://aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx)</span>
<span class="Underline">Freight Railroads Save America Money Railroads…figure is probably close to $95 billion today.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Economy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Key to the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AAR 11** (Association of American Railroads, “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” October 2011, http://aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx)</span>
<span class="Underline">Freight Railroads Mean More Jobs and a…approximately one third of all U.S. exports.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Hegemony Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Turns hegemony**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Korpanty 99** (Robert, Military Traffic Management Command Transportation Engineering Agency, Army Logistician, November-December, http: www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/NovDec99/MS455.htm) </span>
<span class="Underline">Tell any mechanized maneuver commander he…works to preserve our strategic rail mobility.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Launches</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC DA -- Ozone</span>=== 
<span class="Underline"><Link></span>

**Destroys the ozone --- causes extinction**
**Thomas 06** (William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm)
A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns that…radiation shielding—but the stratosphere itself.

===2NC Overview -- Ozone=== 
**Net benefit alone outweighs – don’t gamble with the human race**
**Mikhailov 04** (A.A. Mikhailov Yu.G. Shafer Institute of Cosmophysical Research and Aeronomy, 31 Lenin Ave., 677891 Yakutsk, Russia “Ozone Layer and the Formation of the Ozone Hole” http://arxiv.org/ftp/physics/papers/0401/0401135.pdf)
If we now take no precautions, the…one of the ozone holes covered them”.

===1NC DA -- Debris=== 
**Debris is at the tipping point now – spills over and destroys satellites**
**Carreau 11** (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, 12/1/11, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)
Efforts over the past two decades to mitigate…away the debris from another country’s spacecraft.

**<Link>**

**The plan breaches the tipping point – turns the case**
**William 10** (Lynda Williams, M.S. in Physics and a physics faculty member at Santa Rose Junior College, Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”, Spring 2010, Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice, 22.1, Spring)
Since the space race began 50 years ago with…launches to take place without risk of destruction.

**Makes bird flu inevitable**
**Harmon 09** (Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks,” 8/24, http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822)
Rather than searching for weird weather or enemy…of the flu by estimating where the birds would be.

**Extinction**
**Chandra 04** — Deputy National Security Advisor of India (Satish, “Global Security: A broader concept for the 21st century”, Center for Strategic Decision Research, 5/7/2004, http://www.csdr.org/2004book/chandra.htm)
This scenario, as frightening as it is, pales…months—a 60 percent mortality rate is estimated.

===2NC Overview -- Debris=== 
**And it turns the case**
**Foust 09** (Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, 6-15-2009, “Space and (or versus) the environment,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1)
In an op-ed in last week’s issue of Space…risk of idiosyncratic and overly restrictive regulation is high.”

===2NC Economy Impact -- Debris=== 
**Debris will destroy critical satellites**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)
There are currently hundreds of millions of space…systems, and interrupt electric power grids (Logsdon 2001).

**The impact is global economic collapse – banking – stability is reverse casual and spills over**
**Monnin and Jokipii 10** (Pierre Monnin & Terhi Jokipii, Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f, p. 3-4)
The increased incidence of banking and financial crises…has the potential to further improve economic forecasts.

===2NC Hegemony Impact -- Debris=== 
**Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war**
**Imburgia 11** (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)
These gloomy prognostications about the threats to…is severely imperiled, if not forever lost.172

===1NC NextGen Link=== 
**Plan increases launches**
**Aviaton Week, 11** (“USAF Decisions on GPS IIIB Could Affect FAA”, 06/07/2011, http://praxisfound.wordpress.com/2011/06/07/aviation-week-usaf-gps-decisions-and-nextgen/)
The outcome of talks due for completion this…have its priorities outlined by August.

==<span class="Underline">Sacred Cow</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Generic Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan’s untouchable fiat designates it as an off-budget project — this has a snowball effect** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Greenspan, 96** — former Chairman of the Federal Reserve (Allen, CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, 4/17/1996)</span>
<span class="Underline">On behalf of myself and the other members of…government to control federal spending.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Generic Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The resolution means fiat is permanent** </span>
<span class="Underline">**HEFC, 4** (Higher Education Funding Council for England, “Joint Committee on the Draft Charities Bill Written Evidence”, June 2004, http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/167/167we98.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">9.1 The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the…could be considered to be ever-increasing.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan’s investment causes a stampede of off-budget programs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Boskin, 96** — senior fellow at the Hoover Institute (Michael, Congressional Record, 142 Con Rec H, 4/17/1996)</span>
<span class="Underline">I believe it is likely that moving one popular…sensibly tax and budget policy impossible.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This spills over** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Stenholm, 96** (Charles, Congressman, FDCH Congressional Testimony, 8/1)</span>
<span class="Underline">Our effort to enforce a balanced budget plan and…sacred cows and provide no exemptions. </span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Roads Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is off budget**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kuhar, 11** — correspondent for Mining Media International (Mark S., “Bring on the Budget”, Mining Media International, 3/7/11, http://rockproducts.com/index.php/component/content/article/67-web-exclusives/10289-bring-on-the-budget.html, Deech)</span>
<span class="Underline">New Trust Fund – Create a new “Transportation Trust Fund,” replacing…aligned with revenues into the trust fund.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Roads Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Road spending will be moved off budget**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Madland 7** (David writer for taxpayers for common sense “Highways subsidies Jump” http://www.progress.org/istea.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Disregarding the budget caps put in…if the off-budget move is successful. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC ABL Scenario**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Guarantees the ABL** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Hodge, 11** (Nathan, “Pentagon Loses War to Zap Airborne Laser From Budget”, The Wall Street Journal, 2/11/2011, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704570104576124173372065568.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">But if the administration's budget request doesn't…decision, when Mr. Gates canceled Future Combat Systems. (The FCS's overall cost: $18 billion.) </span>

<span class="Underline">**This destroys deterrence – leads to global nuclear war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rozoff, 10** – contributor to The Centre for Research on Globalization (Rick, “U.S. Tightens Missile Shield Encirclement Of China And Russia”, 3/4/2010, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=17948)</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. has not substituted the missile…for conventional and nuclear first strikes.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC CTL Scenario</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Air force is pushing for CTL** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sassoon, 8** — Founder of Solve Climate and MA in Journalism from Columbia University (David, “Coal Loses Steam”, The Guardian, 2/12/2008, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/feb/12/coallosessteam)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Air Force is the other place where dirty…policymaking on energy and climate issues.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Off-budget stampede means this gets through --- causes warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barbalance, 7** (Kenneth, “Congress proposes massive subsidies to convert coal into diesel fuel”, 5/31/2007; http://blog.environmentalchemistry.com/2007/05/congress-proposes-massive-subsidies-to.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The coal to liquid fuel proposals working their…Fuels Corporation is just such an example. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tickell, 8** — climate researcher, journalist, author, and campaigner on health and environment issues (Oliver, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, The Guardian, 8/11/2008, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span class="Underline">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global…propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth. </span>

==<span class="Underline">Wetlands</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation facilities decrease social cohesion and create physical barriers** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rodrigue 98** (Dr. Jean-Paul Rodrigue, Department of Global Studies & Geography, Hofstra University, “The Environmental Impacts of Transportation,” The Geography of Transport Systems, Chapter 8, Concept 1, http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch8en/conc8en/ch8c1en.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Land take. Transportation facilities have an…urban aesthetic and affecting the built heritage.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan’s construction of transportation leads to land draining and wetland destruction --- causes mass species devastation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rodrigue 98** (Dr. Jean-Paul Rodrigue, Department of Global Studies & Geography, Hofstra University, “The Environmental Impacts of Transportation,” The Geography of Transport Systems, Chapter 8, Concept 1, http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch8en/conc8en/ch8c1en.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Biodiversity. Transportation also influences natural…natural habitats and reduction of ranges.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Wetlands are good for life**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RCW 96** (The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, November 15, 1996, “Wetlands and biological diversity,” online: http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Wetlands - including (inter alia) rivers, lakes, marshes…and terrestrial ecosystems such as forests and grasslands.</span>

**This is also an important ethical consideration --- species extinction shouldn’t be tolerated**
**Cote 94** (Sherrie Marie Cote, “The Manatee: Facing Imminent Extinction,” Florida Journal of International Law, 189, Spring 1994)
It is our responsibility, as tenants on the…show how we are all connected."