[[toc]]
=<span style="text-align: left;">Port Dredging</span>= 
==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC -- Niles</span>== 
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Inherency</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">No DA’s – Status quo port improvements are failing, and the plan’s still necessary</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NYT, 8/20/12** (John Schwartz – staff writer, August 20, 2012, “Panama Canal’s Growth Prompts U.S. Ports to Expand,” The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/21/us/us-ports-seek-to-lure-big-ships-after-panama-canal-expands.html?partner=rss&emc=rss)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">BALTIMORE — The four cranes rise grandly…Canal, and from South America’s eastern ports.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The status quo doesn’t solve – dredging minor ports is key to prevent congestion</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Below-average depths at our deepwater ports…import/export shipping to the rest of the U.S.”</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Economy</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The Panama Canal expansion will fundamentally change seaborne commerce – US ports require new harbor deepening or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bridges, 11** – Chairman, Board of the American Association of Port Authorities, Executive Director, Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., October 26, 2011, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?,” http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Since the birth of our nation, U.S.…including landside and waterside access to seaports. We cannot wait.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to retain foreign customers</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Calhoun, 11** – President, Cargo Carriers (Cargill), Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc. (Rick, August 2011, “Dredging for Prosperity,” Marine Log, http://www.nxtbook.com/nxtbooks/sb/ml0811/index.php?startid=7&qs=DREDGING+FOR+PROSPERITY#/8)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Just like the nation itself, our…future of our inland waterways transportation system.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal regulations mean new projects will take decades unless the federal government expedites construction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Nagle, 12** – President and CEO, American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., March 7, 2012, “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">First, the funding level of the Corps of…meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal investment in port deepening is key to an increased role in the global economy and trade</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kiefer et al, 2k** (Jack, Principal Investigator, Planning and Management Consultants, Ltd., *AND Stuart Norvell, economist with PMCL, *AND Edward Cohn, independent subcontractor, *AND Robert A. Pietrowsky, Director, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Phillip J. Thorpe, Senior Economist, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Kenneth E. Lichtman, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Christine M. Brayman, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Patricia L. Mutschler, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Richard T. Worthington, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Raleigh H. Leef, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, May 2000, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors: Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry,” http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">International trade has become increasingly important…and need to be updated for the 21st Century.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Economic crises trigger war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Royal, 10** — Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, 2010 “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises?,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic…be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Growth eliminates the rational incentives for war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gartzke, 11** – Ph.D., Associate Professor, Political Science, University of California, San Diego (Erik, February 9, 2011, “Security in an Insecure World,” Cato Institute, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Almost as informative as the decline in…that war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">American economic collapse causes great power war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Tilford, 08** – Ph.D., Analyst, U.S. Air Force and Army (Earl, October 6, 2008, “Critical mass: economic leadership or dictatorship,” Center for Vision & Values, Grove City College, http://www.visionandvalues.org/2008/10/critical-mass-economic-leadership-or-dictatorship/)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">If the American economy collapses, especially in…could devolve to that point very quickly.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Ports are the key internal link to preserve U.S. strength in international trade</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bookman, 96** – Director, Marine Institute, National Research Council (Charles, Fall 1996, “U.S. seaports: At the crossroads of the global economy,” Issues in Science and Technology, 13. 1 (Fall 1996): 71, ProQuest)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Shallow, congested, and technologically lagging, U.S. seaports…to these problems on a national scale.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">U.S. strength in international trade is the vital internal link to free trade – the alternative is chaos and catastrophe</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Panitchpakdi, 04** (DG Supachai, Secretary General for the UN conference on Trade and Development, February 26, 2004, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?,” World Trade Organization, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I can sum up my message today…of rules. All of these were America’s objectives.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The alternative is mercantilism and protectionism</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Posen, 09** – Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, 2009, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” Global Power Revisited, pp. 11-14, http://www.alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de/downloads/FS_USA_09_GlobalPowerRevisited.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Though the relative rise of the major…should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Panzner, 08** – New York Institute of Finance (Michael J., 2008, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, pp. 137-138)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The rise in isolationism and protectionism will…as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Free trade creates structural disincentives for war – empirics prove</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Griswold, 11** – Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute (Daniel, 2011, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Our more globalized world has also…be destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Deployment</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: inline !important;">Commercial port infrastructure’s key for surge deployments – congestion reduces rapid response</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The addition of military mobilization to normal…on locally and Federally funded improvement programs.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">That’s the critical internal link into sealift effectiveness</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**AAPA, 03** (American Association of Port Authorities, Fall 2003, “The Impact of War & Terrorism,” Seaports Magazine, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Vital national efforts such as military…than those associated with Operation Desert Storm in 1991.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Military readiness solves conflict</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Spencer, 2k** — policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation (Jack, Heritage Foundation Reports, lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The evidence indicates that the U.S. armed…vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression---that’s especially true in the context of Taiwan and China and on the Korean Peninsula</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gerson, 09** – Research Analyst, Center for Naval Analyses (Michael S., Fall 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This article seeks to expand the current debate…provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">War over Taiwan is the only scenario for extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Tucker, 05** – Professor, Georgetown University (Nancy, 2005, “Dangerous Strait: the U.S.—Taiwan—China crisis,” Google Books)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">At the beginning of this new century, nowhere…that will meet with the assent of the people of Taiwan.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Korean conflict leads to global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Stratfor 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is…be if the situation escalates much further.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lack of dredging severely limits naval operations</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lack of attention to port maintenance and…restrict military or significant commercial cargo.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Naval power solves major power wars</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Conway et al, 07** (James T., Former General, U.S. Marine Corps, *AND Gary Roughead, Former Admiral, U.S. Navy, *AND Thad W. Allen, Former Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Deter major power war. No other disruption…projection enable extended campaigns ashore.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Naval power puts a cap on conflict</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NLUS, 12** – a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/2012, http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, world…in the future must be a national imperative.</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Plan Text</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in expedited port transportation infrastructure projects in the United States, including transportation infrastructure surrounding ports.</span>**

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The federal government’s key – port infrastructure’s under federal jurisdiction and federal action’s key to leadership</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**AAPA, 11** (American Association of Port Authorities, March 2011, “Getting Back to Basics: The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have…global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal leadership’s key to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Woodley, Jr., 08** – Former United States Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) (John Paul, Summer 2008, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat,” Seaports Magazine, Vol. 13, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Like many nations, the United States…economy strong for generations to come.</span>

==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC -- Georgetown</span>== 
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Inherency</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">No DA’s – Status quo port improvements are failing, and the plan’s still necessary</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**NYT, 8/20/12** (John Schwartz – staff writer, August 20, 2012, “Panama Canal’s Growth Prompts U.S. Ports to Expand,” The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/21/us/us-ports-seek-to-lure-big-ships-after-panama-canal-expands.html?partner=rss&emc=rss)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">BALTIMORE — The four cranes rise grandly…Canal, and from South America’s eastern ports.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The status quo doesn’t solve – dredging minor ports is key to prevent congestion</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Below-average depths at our deepwater ports…import/export shipping to the rest of the U.S.”</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Economy</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The Panama Canal expansion will fundamentally change seaborne commerce – US ports require new harbor deepening or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bridges, 11** – Chairman, Board of the American Association of Port Authorities, Executive Director, Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., October 26, 2011, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?,” http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Since the birth of our nation, U.S.…including landside and waterside access to seaports. We cannot wait.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to retain foreign customers</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Calhoun, 11** – President, Cargo Carriers (Cargill), Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc. (Rick, August 2011, “Dredging for Prosperity,” Marine Log, http://www.nxtbook.com/nxtbooks/sb/ml0811/index.php?startid=7&qs=DREDGING+FOR+PROSPERITY#/8)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Just like the nation itself, our…future of our inland waterways transportation system.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal regulations mean new projects will take decades unless the federal government expedites construction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Nagle, 12** – President and CEO, American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., March 7, 2012, “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">First, the funding level of the Corps of…meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal investment in port deepening is key to an increased role in the global economy and trade</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kiefer et al, 2k** (Jack, Principal Investigator, Planning and Management Consultants, Ltd., *AND Stuart Norvell, economist with PMCL, *AND Edward Cohn, independent subcontractor, *AND Robert A. Pietrowsky, Director, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Phillip J. Thorpe, Senior Economist, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Kenneth E. Lichtman, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Christine M. Brayman, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Patricia L. Mutschler, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Richard T. Worthington, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *AND Raleigh H. Leef, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, May 2000, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors: Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry,” http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">International trade has become increasingly important…and need to be updated for the 21st Century.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Economic crises trigger war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Royal, 10** — Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, 2010 “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises?,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic…be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Growth eliminates the rational incentives for war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gartzke, 11** – Ph.D., Associate Professor, Political Science, University of California, San Diego (Erik, February 9, 2011, “Security in an Insecure World,” Cato Institute, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Almost as informative as the decline in…that war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">American economic collapse causes great power war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Tilford, 08** – Ph.D., Analyst, U.S. Air Force and Army (Earl, October 6, 2008, “Critical mass: economic leadership or dictatorship,” Center for Vision & Values, Grove City College, http://www.visionandvalues.org/2008/10/critical-mass-economic-leadership-or-dictatorship/)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">If the American economy collapses, especially in…could devolve to that point very quickly.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Ports are the key internal link to preserve U.S. strength in international trade</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bookman, 96** – Director, Marine Institute, National Research Council (Charles, Fall 1996, “U.S. seaports: At the crossroads of the global economy,” Issues in Science and Technology, 13. 1 (Fall 1996): 71, ProQuest)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Shallow, congested, and technologically lagging, U.S. seaports…to these problems on a national scale.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">U.S. strength in international trade is the vital internal link to free trade – the alternative is chaos and catastrophe</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Panitchpakdi, 04** (DG Supachai, Secretary General for the UN conference on Trade and Development, February 26, 2004, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?,” World Trade Organization, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I can sum up my message today…of rules. All of these were America’s objectives.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The alternative is mercantilism and protectionism</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Posen, 09** – Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, 2009, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” Global Power Revisited, pp. 11-14, http://www.alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de/downloads/FS_USA_09_GlobalPowerRevisited.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Though the relative rise of the major…should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Panzner, 08** – New York Institute of Finance (Michael J., 2008, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, pp. 137-138)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The rise in isolationism and protectionism will…as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Free trade creates structural disincentives for war – empirics prove</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Griswold, 11** – Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute (Daniel, 2011, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Our more globalized world has also…be destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Deployment</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Commercial port infrastructure’s key for surge deployments – congestion reduces rapid response</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The addition of military mobilization to normal…on locally and Federally funded improvement programs.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">That’s the critical internal link into sealift effectiveness</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**AAPA, 03** (American Association of Port Authorities, Fall 2003, “The Impact of War & Terrorism,” Seaports Magazine, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Vital national efforts such as military…than those associated with Operation Desert Storm in 1991.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Military readiness solves conflict</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Spencer, 2k** — policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation (Jack, Heritage Foundation Reports, lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The evidence indicates that the U.S. armed…vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression---that’s especially true in the context of Taiwan and China and on the Korean Peninsula</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gerson, 09** – Research Analyst, Center for Naval Analyses (Michael S., Fall 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This article seeks to expand the current debate…provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">War over Taiwan is the only scenario for extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Tucker, 05** – Professor, Georgetown University (Nancy, 2005, “Dangerous Strait: the U.S.—Taiwan—China crisis,” Google Books)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">At the beginning of this new century, nowhere…that will meet with the assent of the people of Taiwan.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Korean conflict leads to global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Stratfor 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is…be if the situation escalates much further.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Deterrence solves war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Lupovici, 8** (Amir is a Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto, Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it…more stable expectations of avoiding violence.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lack of dredging severely limits naval operations</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MARAD, 05** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lack of attention to port maintenance and…restrict military or significant commercial cargo.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Naval power solves major power wars</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Conway et al, 07** (James T., Former General, U.S. Marine Corps, *AND Gary Roughead, Former Admiral, U.S. Navy, *AND Thad W. Allen, Former Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Deter major power war. No other disruption…projection enable extended campaigns ashore.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Naval power solves all conflict</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**England et. al, 11** (By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">All our citizens, and especially our servicemen and…need to meet the challenges of the future.</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Plan Text</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in expedited port transportation infrastructure projects in the United States, including transportation infrastructure surrounding ports.</span>**

===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC – Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The federal government’s key – port infrastructure’s under federal jurisdiction and federal action’s key to leadership</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**AAPA, 11** (American Association of Port Authorities, March 2011, “Getting Back to Basics: The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have…global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal leadership’s key to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Woodley, Jr., 08** – Former United States Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) (John Paul, Summer 2008, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat,” Seaports Magazine, Vol. 13, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Like many nations, the United States…economy strong for generations to come.</span>
==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2AC Add-ons</span>== 
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2AC -- Oil Spills</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Shallow ports risk oil spills</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Landrieu 12** – Chairwoman Senate Subcommittee on Homeland Security (Mary, “Harbor Maintenance Funds Must Be Put to Intended Use”, 2011/2012 Issue of Seaport Magazine, http://digital.sea-portsinfo.com/issue/54053)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">As gateways to domestic and international trade, America’s…economy at no additional cost to taxpayers.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Oil Spills collapse the ecosystem</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Adams 10** – The results of an oil spill (Mike, “The Gulf Oil Spill: An Extinction Level Event?”, Blogspot, 5/9/10, http://coyoteprime-runningcauseicantfly.blogspot.com/2010/05/gulf-oil-spill-extinction-level-event.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The possibility of an extinction event? It's hard to…the human population by 90 percent or more.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Loss of biodiversity causes complete extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**DINER 1994** (Maj. David, Instructor at the US Army JAG School, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1. Why Do We Care? -- No species has ever dominated…mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>
==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2AC AT:</span>== 
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2AC -- AT: States CP</span>=== 
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">States and local ports are bound by federal regulations which require federal funding before new projects can begin</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Gibbs, 2011** – Subcommittee Chairman (Bob, “Memorandum on the Hearing on “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?”, October 21, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/112th/Water/Water%20Briefing%20Memo%20%20%2010-26-11.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Infrastructure Investment Investing in ports not only creates jobs…million less than the FY 2011 annualized Continuing Resolution of $2.361 billion.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">States links to politics – independent state funding still requires Congressional approval</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Barnett, 12** (Ron, USA Today, 5/24, “East Coast ports scramble to dig deep, for supersize ships,” http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-24/deepening-harbors/55653540/1)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">‘the association’ = the American Association of Port Authorities</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">South Carolina's Legislature this month designated $300…Chamberlayne, commander of the Corps of Engineers Charleston District.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">States lack the resources – aff specific omg</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Reixach, 11** -- Executive Port Director and Chief Executive Officer Port Freeport Texas and AAPA Chairman of the Board and U.S. Delegation Chairman (A.J., "Are we ready to handle growth in global trade?", Summer, http://www.aapa-ports.org/Publications/SeaportsDetail.cfm?itemnumber=18152#seaportsarticle4)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In my welcoming remarks Feb. 1 at the Shifting International…the cost-share arrangement for channel projects.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Federal leadership is vital to solving trade</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**SCHANK, 5/20** – PRESIDENT AND CEO OF THE Eno Center for Transportation, was a Transportation Policy Advisor for Hilary Clinton, and holds a Ph.D. in urban planning from Columbia University, a Master of City Planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a B.A. in urban studies from Columbia University. (Joshua, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, Eno Center for Transportation, 5/20/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Final Thoughts All of these ideas have a…primarily influenced by data, analysis, and desired outcomes.</span>

**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">No solvency – variance –</span>**
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A. State action lacks uniformity</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Goldsmith ’97** (Jack, Associate Prof – U Chicago, Virginia Law Review, November, Lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 50%;">Nonetheless, these concerns need not affect the legitimacy of the federal common law of foreign relations. Although federal courts might be generally unsuited to make federal foreign relations law on both legitimacy and competence grounds, the adverse consequences of state-by-state regulation in the face of federal political branch silence might be worse. States suffer from many of the same disabilities as federal courts in this context. Moreover, federal courts, in contrast to the states, have independence from local political processes and, as a branch of the national government, are likely to be more sensitive to national foreign relations interests. Even in the absence of strategic behavior by the states, one might think that, all things being equal, suboptimal but uniform federal judge-made regulation of foreign relations is preferable to the nonuniformity inherent in state-by-state regulation of a foreign relations issue. 213 Finally, the federal common law of foreign relations is designed to protect political branch prerogatives in foreign relations that the political branches themselves are structurally unsuited to protect. Any remaining concerns about the legitimacy or competence of the federal common law of foreign relations are thus mitigated by the political branches' ability to override judicial errors in the development of such law.</span></span>
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">B. That tanks solvency</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Donahue ’97** (John D., JFK School of Government, Disunited States, p. 42)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 50%;">Even when states vary, of course, there are arguments for uniformity. Institutions and individuals who live or do business in several states face the expense, bother, and confusion of coping with different (and sometimes conflicting) rules. Inconsistencies among state laws and regulations can lead to disputes of great complexity and to resolutions of limited appeal. After taking its case all the way to the Supreme Court, for example, a cruise ship operator won the right to be sued only in Florida by aggrieved passengers who had been on a trip between Washington State and Mexico.</span></span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]