[[toc]]
=Impact [Turns]= 
==**Biodiversity Loss Bad**== 
===**1NC Terminal Impact**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Diner, 94** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span class="Underline">To accept that the snail darter, harelip…may be edging closer to the abyss. </span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Terminal Impacts</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris, 1** (Paul G. Harris, Lecturer at Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, 2001, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-2)</span>
<span class="Underline">Environment, Equity, and U.S. Foreign Policy: Normative Implications In addition…as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity has an insurance effect — solves extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Young, 10** — Ph.D. in coastal marine ecology (Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, 2/9/2010, http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Different species within ecosystems fill particular…protection of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Eco collapse causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jayawardena, 9** — London South Bank University (Asitha, “We Are a Threat to All Life on Earth”, Indicator, 7/17/2009, http://www.indicator.org.uk/?p=55)</span>
<span class="Underline">Sloep and Van Dam-Mieras (1995) explain in detail why…expecting surprises and adapting to these.’ </span>

<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity is key to survival**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FAO, 2008** [Biodiversity is vital for human survival and livelihoods, 2/18, http://www.fao.org/newsroom/en/news/2008/1000788/index.html] </span>
<span class="Underline">BIODIVERSITY is vital for human survival and livelihoods…healthy natural capital for future generations,” Mr Butler said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity is key to life on earth—necessary processes are regulated by living organisms**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Clark**, professor of history and anthropology at the University of Georgia, **2007** [Josh, “Will we soon be extinct?”, http://science.howstuffworks.com/mass-extinction.htm]</span>
<span class="Underline">We humans have come a long way in gaining…that have yet to be discovered would also be lost.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity is crucial to human survival – our evidence is based off rigorous study**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CAS**, California Academy of Sciences, Biodiversity Resource Center, **2001** [Threats To Biodiversity. http://research.calacademy.org/research/library/biodiv.htm]</span>
<span class="Underline">Currently, more than 10,000 species become extinct…this time of rapid environmental erosion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Maintaining biodiversity is key to sustaining the human species**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Loreau 06** – Professor of Biology McGill University in Quebec – “Diversity without representation” Nature 442, 245-246 (20 July 2006) http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v442/n7100/full/442245a.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the 1992 United Nations Earth Summit conference…international body of biodiversity experts.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Disease Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity loss breeds infectious diseases**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Henderson 06** – Science Editor of The Times – “Why we need all the species” The Times June 10, 2006 Lexis</span>
<span class="Underline">The world is enduring a crisis of biodiversity. The…will be lost to medicine if allowed to die out.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">Frank **Ryan**, M.D., **1997**, virus X, p. 366</span>
<span class="Underline">How might the human race appear to such…the extinction of the human species?</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Boulter</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Boulter concludes our way in the next paragraph**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Boulter, 2** (Michael, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p. 170) </span>
<span class="Underline">If humans were to fall into this vulnerable category…the other species that our extinction event killed off.</span>

<span class="Underline">**And he says that biodiversity loss makes extinction inevitable** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Boulter, 2** (Michael, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p. 182) </span>
<span class="Underline">The really frightening thing about this conclusion…inevitable, the catastrophe has not yet taken place.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Insurance Hypothesis</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity is critical in a changing environment – insurance hypothesis fails**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Loreau 00** – Professor of Biology McGill University in Quebec- “Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning: recent theoretical advances” OIKOS 91: 3–17. Copenhagen 2000 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1034/j.1600-0706.2000.910101.x/pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">These experiments have tested the short-term…with new arguments and a new rigour.</span>

==**Consequences Good**== 
===**1NC Consequences**=== 
**Evaluate consequences – allowing violence for the sake of moral purity is evil**
**Isaac 2** (Jeffrey C., Professor of Political Science – Indiana-Bloomington, Director – Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, Ph.D. – Yale, Dissent Magazine, 49(2), “Ends, Means, and Politics”, Spring, Proquest)
As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max…arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.

**Governments must weigh consequences**
**Harries 94** (Owen, Editor and Founder – National Interest and Senior Fellow – Centre for Independent Studies, “Power and Civilization”, The National Interest, Spring, Lexis)
Performance is the test. Asked directly by…them will always have to be considered.

==**Economic Growth Bad**== 
===**1NC Dedev**=== 
**Economic decline solves war --- forces an end to competition and conflict escalation**
**Nordstrom 2k** – department of political science at Penn State (D Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)
Conflict settlement is also a distinct route…longer compete economically with the United States.

**Extinction and collapse of industrial society are inevitable --- only collapse now solves**
**Barry, 8** (Glen, President and Founder of Ecological Internet, Ph.D. in Land Resources from the University of Wisconsin, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology,” 1/14/08, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm )
Yet this growth is the primary factor driving…total collapse can be a final, fatal death swoon.

**That’s key --- creates a mindset shift towards local civilizations**
**Lewis, 2k** (Chris H., Ph.D. from University of Colorado, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization,” http://www.colorado.edu/AmStudies/lewis/ecology/paradox.pdf)
With the collapse of global industrial civilization, smaller…work to conserve and restore their environments.

==**Economic Growth Good**== 
===**1NC Royal**=== 
**Only impact supported by studies – collapse causes global war**
**Royal 10** (Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of economic…be considered ancillary to those views.

===**1NC US-Specific**=== 
**US economic collapse emboldens adversaries – ensures global warfare**
**Lieberthal 12** – Director of the China center
(Kenneth G, Michael E O’Hanlon, Director of research at Brookings, 7/10, The Real National Security Threat: America's Debt, www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/07/10-economy-foreign-policy-lieberthal-ohanlon)
Lastly, American economic weakness undercuts…effective foreign policy is not reestablished.

===1NC Environment=== 
**Growth key to the environment**
**Goklany ‘7** – PhD, science and tech policy analyst for the US Dept of the Interior
Indur M, M.S. and Ph.D are from Michigan State University, “the improving state of the world”, page number below in [brackets]
Yet another view, formalized as the environmental…environmental quality that's a better surrogate.<page 10-11>

===1NC Warming=== 
**Economic collapse would kill support for climate treaties**
**Haass 8** (Richard. President of the Council on Foreign Relations, 11/8/8, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122611110847810599.html)
There will be other policy consequences of…despite a clear need for their dollars.

===2NC Warming/Environment=== 
**Econ decline leads to warming and environmental collapse**
**Richard in ‘8** Michael Graham, staff writer, Tree Hugger, 2/4/8, http://www.treehugger.com/files/2008/02/4_reasons_recession_bad_environment.php
As a counter-point to Lloyd's tongue-in-cheek…even think about progress on global warming...

==**Federalism Good**== 
===1NC Generic Link=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan’s overextension of federal power is a slippery slope – spills over** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Johnson 01** (Virginia H., JD Candidate, Cardoza Law Review, November, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Although the Lue court agreed that…be interchangeable constitutional requirements. 145</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC TI Link</span>=== 
**The plan decks federalism – it’s coming now for transportation policy**
**McGuigan, 11** – Editor of the Free Congress Family, Law & Democracy Report (Patrick, “CapitolBeakOK: Transportation Federalism -- and Flexibility -- Proposed in New Bill from Coburn, Lankford,” 7/29, http://lankford.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=756&Itemid=100023)
In his statement, sent to CapitolBeatOK, Sen. Coburn said…and roads in Utah and across the nation.

===<span class="Underline">2NC TI Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is a slippery slope of federal control – that spills over**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Edner and McDowell 02** (Sheldon Edner, Director, Center for Federal Management Leadership, George Mason University, former Associate Director for Financial Management at the Department of Transportation, Bruce D. McDowell, President, Intergovernmental Management Associates, Project Director, National Academy of Public Administration, “Surface-Transportation Funding in a New Century: Assessing One Slice of the Federal Marble Cake,” JSTOR, Publius, The Journal of Federalism, Vol. 32, No. 1, Winter 2002, pp. 7-24)</span>
<span class="Underline">This article examines American federalism…characterizing the status of the federal-state relationship.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Investment Link</span>=== 
**The plan’s federal __delegation of funding__ independently __increases state reliance__ and __undermines federalism__**
**Gilroy 10** (Leonard Gilroy, Director of Government Reform at Reason Foundation, “Weaning Dependent, Spending-Addicted States From the Enabling Feds,” Reason Foundation, February 2, 2010, http://reason.org/blog/show/weaning-dependent-spending-add)
Aside from the fiscal folly associated with…that states may be facing a fiscal lost decade.

===<span class="Underline">1NC CCS Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**CCS is evolving in line with federalism now – the plan interrupts this trend and infringers on state power**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Monast et al. 11** (Jonas Monast, Director of the Climate and Energy Program at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, Brooks Rainey Pearson, Policy Council at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, Dr. Lincoln Pratson, Truman and Nellie Semans/Alex Brown and Sons Professor of Earth and Ocean Sciences at Duke University’s Nicholas School of the Environment, “A Cooperative Federalism Framework for CCS Regulation,” Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, Duke University, Aug 1, 2011, http://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/climate/lowcarbontech/a-cooperative-federalism-framework-for-ccs-regulation/)</span>
<span class="Underline">CCS regulation is already evolving in a cooperative…political, economic, and geologic circumstances.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Federalism Modeled</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**American federalism is modeled**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Calabresi 95** (Steven G. Calabresi, Associate Professor, Northwestern University School of Law. “A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers,” Michigan Law Review December, 1995)</span>
<span class="Underline">The fifty years since then have seen the…Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, and the former Soviet Union.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC War Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Global war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Calabresi 95** (Steven G., Assistant Prof – Northwestern U., Michigan Law Review, Lexis) </span>
<span class="Underline">First, the rules of constitutional federalism should…would wake up to the importance of what is at stake.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Federal Accountability/Tyranny Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federalism is a critical check on federal accountability and tyranny**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Robinson 04** (Nick Robinson, Yale Law School, J.D. 2006 and Currently Fox Fellow at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, 40 Akron L. Rev. 647)</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, federalism provides a check on the…encourages [*682] citizen participation and empowerment.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Rejecting every instance is critical to prevent the end of humanity** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Petro 74** (Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest…emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal accountability checks extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Adler 96** (David, Professor of Political Science – Idaho State University, The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy, p. 23-25)</span>
<span class="Underline">{11} The structure of shared powers in foreign…to executive hegemony in foreign affairs.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Hegemony Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federalism is key to global leadership and credibility**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rivlin 92** (Alice Rivlin, Brookings Institution, Reviving the American Dream: The Economy, The States, and the Federal Government)</span>
<span class="Underline">The inexorably rising frequency and complexity of…responsibility between the states and the national government.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Human Rights Impact</span>=== 
**This is critical to human rights and the urbanized and poor Other**
**Burroughs 06** (Gaylynn Burroughs, LL.M. Candidate, International Legal Studies, New York University School of Law, J.D., New York University School of Law, “Realizing Domestic Social Justice Through International Human Rights: Part I: More Than An Incidental Effect on Foreign Affairs: Implementation of Human Rights by State and Local Governments,” New York University School of Law, New York University Review of Law & Social Change; 30 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 411; Lexis)
Julian Ku, however, has pointed out that, in…to "one voice" in foreign relations more attractive.

===<span class="Underline">1NC Mining Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federalism prevents a proliferation of nation-wide mining efforts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Patashnik 08** – Reporter-Researcher at the New Republic (Josh, “The Federalism Solution”, The New York Times, June 23)</span>
<span class="Underline">The New York Times editorializes today in favor…decisions up to the states is a sound one.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That will decimate biodiversity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Palmer et al. 10** – Director National Socio-Environmental Synthesis Center Professor Department of Entomology University of Maryland Professor Chesapeake Biological Laboratory University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science (Margaret, “Mountaintop Mining Consequences” Science Journal, January 8 2010, http://www.filonverde.org/images/Mountaintop_Mining_Consequences_Science1%5B1%5D.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ecological Losses, Downstream Impacts The extensive tracts…known to persist long after mining ceases ( 14).</span>

**Extinction**
**Diner, 94**** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
<span class="Underline">To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or…may be edging closer to the abyss. </span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Species Loss Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federalism solves species loss**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gilroy 05** (Leonard Gilroy, Director of Government Reform at Reason Foundation, “Time to Revamp Endangered Species Act,” Reason Foundation, January 9, 2005, http://reason.org/blog/show/time-to-revamp-endangered-spec)</span>
<span class="Underline">"Under environmental federalism, the national…quickly and more creatively than federal agencies."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Diner, 94** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span class="Underline">To accept that the snail darter, harelip…may be edging closer to the abyss. </span>

===1NC Water Management Impact=== 
<span class="Underline">**Federalism is critical to effective water management – nationalization fails** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Craig 11** (Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Dean for Environmental Programs, Professor of Law, Florida State University College of Law, “Adapating Water Federalism to Climate Change Impacts: Energy Policy, Food Security, and the Allocation of Water Resources,” Environmental and Energy Law and Policy Journal, Vol. 5, No. 2, January 30, 2011, http://www.law.uh.edu/eelpj/publications/5-2/02Craig.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">That said, however, the prospect of whole…all start sooner rather than later.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That decimates the US agriculture sector**</span>
<span class="Underline">**WEF 11** (Water Environment Federation, “Water Sector Interdependencies: Summary Report 2011,” 2011, http://www.wef.org/uploadedFiles/Access_Water_Knowledge/Water_Security_and_Emergency_Response/Final_WEF_Summary_WSI.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The water sector and the agriculture and…of meats, poultry, eggs, and milk.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Klare, 12** — professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College (Michael T., “Michael T. Klare: The Hunger Wars in Our Future”, 8/8/12, http://www.guernicamag.com/daily/michael-t-klare-the-hunger-wars-in-our-future/)</span>
<span class="Underline">This, however, is just the beginning of the…of the Maoist-inspired Naxalites of India.</span>

==**Hegemony Bad**== 
===**1NC Arctic**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Russia’s beating us in the Arctic now – bolstering hegemony sparks offensives that culminate in global warfare and environmental degradation.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Reis, 10** [3/13, Rob, covered Arctic issues for Smithsonian, Parade and Outside Magazines His article on Barrow, Alaska appears in the March issue of Smithsonian. His most recent book is “Black Monday,” a novel about the destruction of world oil supply,” Cold, Hard Facts: U.S. Trails in Race for the Top of the World”, http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/03/13/cold-hard-facts-u-s-trails-in-race-for-the-top-of-the-world/]</span>
<span class="Underline">Most Americans give little thought to our…bear. The U.S. appeared as a sleeping elephant.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC China-Russia Alliance</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**It also guarantees a Sino-Russian super alliance – causes global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Roberts 07** – Economist and Former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Paul Craig, “US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance”, http://www.antiwar.com/roberts/?articleid=11422)</span>
<span class="Underline">This week the Russian and Chinese militaries are…irresponsibly aggressive regime the world has seen since Hitler's. </span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Prolif</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**No impact to heg but it causes prolif – this card also indicts their epistemology** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Friedman 10** – research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">Another argument for high military spending…while providing no obvious benefit. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Evans and Kawaguchi 09** (Co-chairs of the International Nuclear Non-Proliferation Disarmament Commission which includes 27 distinguished nuclear experts from around the globe, December 16, 2009)</span>
<span class="Underline">3.1 Ensuring that no new states join the ranks…multiple and cross-cutting sources of conflict. </span>


==**High Food Prices Good**== 
===**1NC Russia Impact**=== 
<span class="Underline">**High grain prices key to Russian growth**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AP Newswire 08** (AP Newswire, www.newsday.com/business/investing/wire/sns-ap-russian-breadbasket,0,5647019.story)</span>
<span class="Underline">An American-made combine harvests barley…of the same plot, he said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Filger 09** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
<span class="Underline">In Russia historically, economic health and political stability…Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

==**Iran Economy Good**== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Iran Lashout Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Iranian economic downturn causes Iranian lash out – precipitates broader conflict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Fishman 12** (Alex Fishman, “Beware Iranian desperation,” Y Net News, Jan 17, http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4176675,00.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Everybody talks about the spring, because everyone…to prompt the international community to lift the chokehold.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chossudovsky,** **10**— Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Michael, “Towards a World War III Scenario? The Role of Israel in Triggering an Attack on Iran”, 8/13/2010,</span>
http://www.globalresearch.ca/towards-a-world-war-iii-scenario-the-role-of-israel-in-triggering-an-attack-on-iran/20584
<span class="Underline">)</span>
<span class="Underline">For several years now Iran has been conducting its…and its allies to postpone an attack on Iran.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Korea War Good**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC Asia Economy**</span>=== 
**Korean war is inevitable, but better now than later: solves a litany of impacts including the Asian economy**
**Suri 4-12** (Jeremi, Professor of History and Public Affairs – University of Texas, “Bomb North Korea, Before It’s Too Late”, New York Times, 2013, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/13/opinion/bomb-north-korea-before-its-too-late.html)
Earlier this week, North Korea closed the…the uneasy peace on the Korean Peninsula.

**And – extinction**
**Auslin 9** (Michael, Resident Scholar – AEI, “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)
As they deal with a collapsing world economy…that have destroyed international systems in the past.

===1NC Manufacturing=== 
**War is key to the manufacturing base**
**Zamanskaya 3-25** (Yulia, Correspondent – Voice of Russia, “The Second Korean War is inevitable – British expert”, Voice of Russia, 2013, http://english.ruvr.ru/2013_03_25/The-Second-Korean-War-is-inevitable-British-expert-128/)
The expert predicts the Second Korean War to…lead to yet another shock to the global economy.

**And – that deters all war and solves the escalation of conflict**
**O’Hanlon 12** (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow – Brookings Institution, “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012”, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon)
The current wave of defense cuts is also different…the United States in a globalized marketplace.

===2NC Turns China Relations=== 
**Only strikes now avert a deterioration of U.S./China relations**
**Wit 4-16** (Joel S., Fellow – U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins, “7 Reasons to Worry About North Korea's Weapons”, The Atlantic, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2013/04/7-reasons-to-worry-about-north-koreas-weapons/275020/)
5) The aggravation of fault lines in U.S.-Chinese…vital region already beset by a host of other problems.

===2NC Solves Aff Impact=== 
**Limited military action would end provocations – effectively deters North Korea**
**Ellis 4-17** (Stephen J., Ph.D. Candidate – University of Leicester, “WHY SEOUL MUST MEET FORCE WITH FORCE”, N.K. News, 2013, http://www.nknews.org/2013/04/why-seoul-must-meet-force-with-force/)
In contrast a proportionate but robust military…restoring their weakened domestic grip on power.

**Strikes now solidify the alliance – that solves the aff’s impact and prevents escalation**
**Lee 10** (Shanghee, Senior Fellow and Former Minister of National Defense and Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “Thoughts on an "Initiative Strategy" for the Comprehensive Management of North Korea”, The Brookings Institution, 6-30, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/04_north_korea_lee.aspx?p=1)
The threat of an all-out war by North Korea…foundation for an Initiative Strategy can be created.

===2NC Now Better=== 
**North Korean prolif inevitable absent strikes – only an attack now succeeds – also key to prevent nuclear terrorism**
**Wit 4-16** (Joel S., Fellow – U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins, “7 Reasons to Worry About North Korea's Weapons”, The Atlantic, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2013/04/7-reasons-to-worry-about-north-koreas-weapons/275020/)
The situation is confusing, but one thing is…to threaten or even use them would be extremely risky.

**And – terrorism causes global nuclear war**
**Speice 6** (Patrick, J.D. Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)
Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear…escalate to the use of nuclear weapons.

**And it lowers the threshold for miscalculation**
**Wit 4-16** (Joel S., Fellow – U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins, “7 Reasons to Worry About North Korea's Weapons”, The Atlantic, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2013/04/7-reasons-to-worry-about-north-koreas-weapons/275020/)
The more weapons Pyongyang has, the more…the Korean War? Talk about mission impossible.

==<span class="Underline">**LNG Exports Bad**</span>== 
===1NC Port Dredging Link=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan bolsters US LNG exports**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ebinger et al. 12** (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The successful export of LNG will depend…dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia.</span>

===**2NC Port Dredging Link**=== 
**Deepening is key – it massively expands LNG tanker viability**
**Abbott 7** (Paul Scott, Editor of AAPA Seaport Magazine, “Ports’ Multi-Billion Dollar Impacts Ripple Throughout the Hemisphere”, Fall 2007, Seaport Magazine, http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2007.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Infrastructure essential Not only must ports provide…place to accommodate this dynamic growth.</span>

===2NC AT: Terminals=== 
**Existing import terminals are being converted – eliminates their solvency deficits**
**Siegel 12** president of J.J. Richardson, a registered investment advisor that manages a hedge fund (John, “The World's Largest LNG Supplier” http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424052748704759704577267370939083182.html)
<span class="Underline">By 2017 the U.S. could be the largest…of 13 billion cubic feet of LNG per day.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Algeria</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**High prices now ensure Algeria’s energy dominance – plan causes prices to drop** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sterne, 9** Paul, Ground Report, 10/9, “Shale Gas will Tip the Scale” http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Shale-Gas-Will-Tip-The-Scale/2909556</span>
<span class="Underline">Outside the United States, there has been almost no … pressure on energy prices for years to come.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Drop in prices reduces gas revenue and cause economic instability** </span>
<span class="Underline">**AEO 3** African Economic Output, “Algeria” http://www.oecd.org/countries/algeria/2497129.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">OIL AND NATURAL GAS DOMINATE the economy,¶ providing a…in 2002 and 3.7¶ per cent the following year.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Gas revenues key to counterterrorism operations – solves terrorism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Soufan Group 12** is an international strategic consultancy that works with governments, companies, and institutions 7/13, “TSG IntelBrief: Algeria: The Rising Storm of Turmoil” http://soufangroup.com/briefs/details/?Article_Id=337</span>
<span class="Underline">• While the Algerian government has greatly…regain its status as a major threat to the country.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Speice, 6** (Patrick, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear weapon…escalate to the use of nuclear weapons.</span>

===1NC Economy=== 
**US LNG exports crush the economy – gives away necessary energy security measures**
**Kalisch 12** **–** President and Chief Executive Officer American Public Gas Association (Bert, “LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Don’t increase LNG exports”, April 18, Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/apr/18/dont-increase-lng-exports/)
<span class="Underline">The export of liquefied natural gas (LNG) sets a dangerous…of LNG threatens both of these fundamental predicates.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Qatar</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Qatar has energy dominance now – plan’s exports ensure prices drop reducing Qatar’s market share**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Singh 12** Gurdeep, Dow Jones Newswire, “North American Natural Gas is Fueling an International Political Power Shift” http://gcaptain.com/north-american-natural-fueling/?48432&goback=.gde_3359298_member_123654884</span>
<span class="Underline">(Dow Jones) KUALA LUMPUR–North American exports of…there are signs it’s already happening.</span>

<span class="Underline">**High gas prices sustain Qatari energy security – that’s key to soft power** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wright 9** Steven is an Assistant Professor in International Affairs at Qatar University, Summary overview for “Qatar’s foreign policy: Autonomy and Security” pdf </span>
<span class="Underline">Diversification of Security: Qatar’s energy reserves make…in the global rather than regional markets.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Qatar mediation key to Middle Eastern stability** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cafiero 12** Giorgio, contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus, 6/25 "Is Qatar's Foreign Policy Sustainable?" http://www.fpif.org/articles/is_qatars_foreign_policy_sustainable</span>
<span class="Underline">Qatar’s delicate balancing act and ample resource wealth…an investment in Qatar’s long-term interests.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Russia Economy</span>=== 
**That replaces Russian exports to the EU**
<span class="Underline">**Ratner 12** – specialist in energy policy, other authors include *Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and *Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs (Michael, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The 27 member-state European Union (EU) has been…defended oil-indexed natural gas prices.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That decimates the Russian economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weitz, 11** – senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a World Politics Review senior editor (Richard, “Can We Manage a Declining Russia?” November, http://www.aei.org/files/2011/12/08/-can-we-manage-a-declining-russia_152701899417.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Europe is an unavoidable partner. The…better than it has in the past.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Filger, 9** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction”, http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
<span class="Underline">In Russia, historically, economic health and political…Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Russia Economy -- Port Dredging Link</span>=== 
**Regardless of EU dependence, the plan alone triggers the link**
**Daly, 12** **–** Ph.D. from the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London. served as Director of Programs at the Middle East Institute in Washington DC before joining UPI as International Correspondent (“Russia Rattled by Rising Importance of Shale Gas,” 4/13, http://oilprice.com/Energy/Natural-Gas/Russia-Rattled-by-Rising-Importance-of-Shale-Gas.html)
<span class="Underline">What Putin signally failed to tell the Duma...of income - the export of natural gas.”</span>

===2NC Russia Economy -- LNG Exports Go to Europe/Internal Link=== 
**LNG terminals are on the way – Cheniere opened the floodgates – solves Russian monopoly**
**Economides 11** Editor-in-Chief of the Energy Tribune (Michael, “US to Export LNG: The Beginning of a New Energy Era,” 10/27/11, http://www.petroleumworld.com/sati11102901.htm)
<span class="Underline">It takes a visionary (Sharif Souki), a surfeit of US…and this announced contract will not be the last one.</span>

**US LNG exports will primarily go to Europe – solves dependence on Russia**
**Moors, 2012** professor in the Graduate Center for Social and Public Policy at Duquesne University, where he directs the Energy Policy Research group (Kent, “How Qatar And Russia Just Improved Our LNG Prospects,” 1/2/12, http://seekingalpha.com/article/317016-how-qatar-and-russia-just-improved-our-lng-prospects)
<span class="Underline">Capping Qatar's LNG exports to Europe, therefore,…gas. That means this market will be expanding.</span>

**US LNG exports solve Russian influence**
**Fowler, 2011** business writer for the Houston Chronicle (Tom, “Study says U.S. shale may weaken Iran, Russia,” 7/21/11, http://www.chron.com/business/energy/article/Study-says-U-S-shale-may-weaken-Iran-Russia-2080593.php)
<span class="Underline">The natural gas boom in the U.S. has…foreign policy independence from Moscow,” Medlock writes.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Russia Economy -- Political Instability Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Political instability causes nuclear first strikes**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pry, 99** (Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, “War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink”, netlibrary)</span>
<span class="Underline">Russian internal troubles—such as a leadership…West ignorant that it was in grave peril.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Russia Economy -- Russia War Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**US-Russia war is the largest existential risk – those outweigh** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bostrom, 2** — Professor of Philosophy at Oxford Unviersity (Nick, “Existential risk”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">A much greater existential risk emerged with…destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.</span>
===<span class="Underline">1NC Russia Relations</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**US- Russia relations are shaky now— “near-sighted” attempts to cultivate ties fail**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Japan Times, 9/11**/12 (Japan Times, Takashia Kitazume, staff writer, "U.S.-Russia relations stagnate as Obama's 'reset' policy falters", www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nb20120911d3.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">The relationship between the United States and…back as president earlier this year. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan would decimate the reset with Russia—their author**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ratner et al, 2012** ((Michael, specialist in energy policy, other authors include *Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and *Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">Successive U.S. administrations and Congresses have viewed…in the southern corridor strategy. </span>

<span class="Underline">**U.S. Russian relations solve every impact** </span>
<span class="Underline">**CFR Task Force 2006** [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, American…relations with Russia are on a positive track.</span>
==Mass Transit Bad== 
===1NC Hearing Loss=== 
**Mass Transit causes hearing loss**
**Berger ’09**- Professor at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health [Stephanie, “Got ear plugs? You may want to sport them on the subway and other mass transit, researchers say”, EurekAlert, 6/18, http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2009-06/cums-gep061809.php] //SP//
//The U.S. mass transit system, the largest…cause people to exceed the daily recommendations.//

//**Hearing loss leads to social collapse – has the same implication as racism**//
//**Torres ’08**- (Katherine, “Can You Hear Me Now? The Impacts of Hearing Loss”, EHS Today, 2/1/08, http://ehstoday.com/ppe/hearing-protection/ehs_imp_78692/)//sp
With hearing loss, the physical impact almost…socially alienate themselves from others, Schulz says.

===1NC Terrorism=== 
**Mass transit is a terrorism magnet**
**United States Government Accountability Office, 02**-(“Federal Action Could Help Transit Agencies Address Security Challenges”, GAO-03-263, 12/ 13/02, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-03-263)//LP
About one-third of terrorist attacks worldwide target…of transit agencies, among other things.

**Terrorism leads to great power warfare — only scenario for escalation**
**Ayson, 10** — Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies in New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects”, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, InformaWorld)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the…not help the chances of nuclear restraint.
==Nuclear War Bad== 
===1NC Extinction=== 
<span class="Underline">**Nuclear wars cause extinction – studies and scientists agree –** </span>

<span class="Underline">**A) Famine and biodiversity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sagan, 83** – B.A., B.S., and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford, professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA Medal for Scientific Achievement, Peabody Award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author (Carl, 1983, http://www.cooperativeindividualism.org/sagan_nuclear_winter.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">But what if nuclear wars can be contained, and…of the extinction of the human species. </span>

<span class="Underline">**B) Ozone**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ikle, 98** – Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (Fred C., “Worldwide Effects of a Nuclear War: Some Perspectives”, June 1998, http://www.worldwideschool.org)</span>
<span class="Underline">More worrisome is the possible effect of nuclear…threat to the recovery of postwar society.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Outweighs Warming</span>=== 
**Nuclear war outweighs warming**
**Robock and Harrel, 9** (Alan, distinguished professor in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University, and Eben “Regional Nuclear War and the Environment”, Time Magazine, 1/22/2009, http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1873164,00.html)
Your study predicts mass cooling. With all…we have the luxury of worrying about global warming.

==Ocean Acidification Bad== 
===1NC Phytoplankton=== 
<span class="Underline">**Ocean acidification destroys phytoplankton**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alois and Cheng 07** (Paul Alois, Arlington Institute, Victoria Cheng, PhD, associate professor at University of Texas, “Keystone Species Extinction Overview,” World’s Biggest Problems, July 2007, http://www.arlingtoninstitute.org/wbp/species-extinction/443)</span>
<span class="Underline">Another theory suggests that carbon dioxide…entire ocean system will be threatened.</span>

==Ocean Acidification Good== 
===1NC Marine Life=== 
**Ocean acidification prevents marine life extinction**
**Shaker 10** (Chris Shaker, “Increasing CO2 is Good for Sea Life, According to Dr J Floor Anthoni,” November 16, 2010, http://current.com/green/92803990_increasing-co2-is-good-for-sea-life-according-to-dr-j-floor-anthoni.htm)
AGW believers keep bringing up ocean…planktonic decomposition, lowers pH in upwelling areas. "
==Oil Dependence Bad== 
===1NC Oil Wars Impact=== 
**Oil dependence causes extinction**
**Lendman 07** (Stephen, renowned author and research associate at the Center for Research on Globalization, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?”, July 2007, http://www.rense.com/general76/-resrouce.htm)
*This card edited to remove holocaust rhetoric which we do not endorse
<span class="Underline">With the world's energy supplies finite, the…a big part of it, would have survived.</span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Oil Wars Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Only dependence short-circuits the barriers to conflict – that means we control the only scenario for escalation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Glaser 11** (Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University, “ Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security,” August 2011, http://depts.washington.edu/polsadvc/Blog%20Links/Glaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx)</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil dependence could reduce a state’s security…uninterrupted and will pursue policies to ensure secure access. </span>

===<span class="Underline">2NC Oil Wars Impact -- Imperial Wars</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Oil dependence makes aggressive warfare inevitable – reduction of dependency encourages cooperation rather than warfare**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Collina 05** (Tom Z. Collina, Executive Director, 20/20 Vision, “Oil Dependence and U.S. Foreign Policy: Real Dangers, Realistic Solutions,” Testimony before the Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs United States Senate, October 19, 2005, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2005_hr/051020-collina.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Bottom line: our economy and security are increasingly…that goal by reducing our dependence on oil.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Democracy Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Kills democracy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Weiss et al 09** (Daniel J. Weiss, Senior Fellow and the Director of Climate Strategy at American Progress, Christopher Beddor, National Security Intern at Center for American Progress, Winny Chen, fellow, Senior Associate, Crimes Against Humanity program, Rudy deLeon, Senior Vice President of National Security and International Policy at American Progress, Shiyong Park, intern with the National Security team at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, “Securing America’s Future: Enhancing Our National Security by Reducing Oil Dependence and Environmental Damage,” Center for American Progress, August 2009, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/08/pdf/energy_security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The revenues and power from oil exports also…than on the longer-term task of governance.”</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Environment Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Crushes the environment – dependence drives production which kills biodiversity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weiss et al 09** (Daniel J. Weiss, Senior Fellow and the Director of Climate Strategy at American Progress, Christopher Beddor, National Security Intern at Center for American Progress, Winny Chen, fellow, Senior Associate, Crimes Against Humanity program, Rudy deLeon, Senior Vice President of National Security and International Policy at American Progress, Shiyong Park, intern with the National Security team at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, “Securing America’s Future: Enhancing Our National Security by Reducing Oil Dependence and Environmental Damage,” Center for American Progress, August 2009, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/08/pdf/energy_security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil consumption has had a devastating and…and on which their reproduction is based.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Warming Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Oil dependence fuels the greatest internal link into emissions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weiss et al 09** (Daniel J. Weiss, Senior Fellow and the Director of Climate Strategy at American Progress, Christopher Beddor, National Security Intern at Center for American Progress, Winny Chen, fellow, Senior Associate, Crimes Against Humanity program, Rudy deLeon, Senior Vice President of National Security and International Policy at American Progress, Shiyong Park, intern with the National Security team at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, “Securing America’s Future: Enhancing Our National Security by Reducing Oil Dependence and Environmental Damage,” Center for American Progress, August 2009, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/08/pdf/energy_security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Burning fossil fuels such as coal and oil…anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions in 2006.”</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Oil Dependence Good**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">2NC UQ</span>=== 
**US oil demand is set to increase – this evidence is predictive**
**McKillop 6/17/12** - former Expert-Policy and Programming, Division A-Policy, DG XVII-Energy, with the European Commission, Brussels (Andrew, “Crude Oil Demand Recovery Is Unlikely” The Market Oracle http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article35184.html)
“World oil consumption will rebound next…almost exactly 50% of world total oil demand.

===<span class="Underline">1NC Congestion Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan drastically reduces oil consumption**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Brooks 12** (Kevin, “The American Transportation Grid; The Good, The Bad & The Ugly… The Uglier… and The Ugliest,” January 22, 2012, http://iicleantech.com/blog/2012/01/22/american-transportation-grid-good-bad-ugly-uglier-ugliest/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Uglier: In 2010, SAFE examined…more efficient vehicles and alternative fuels.</span>

===1NC HSR Link=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan reduces oil consumption**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kunz 12** (Andy Kunz, “Moving Forward on California’s High Speed Rail,” July 5, 2012)</span>
<span class="Underline">Investment in HSR is both visionary and…energy, thereby drastically reducing oil dependency.</span>

===**<span class="Underline">1NC NIB Link</span>**=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan crushes oil consumption**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lehner 10** – Executive Director of the Natural Resources Defense Council (Peter, “Battling Our Oil Dependence Once and For All: A Blueprint” Bello Velo, June 20th, http://bellovelo.blogspot.com/2010/06/battling-our-oil-dependence-once-and.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Our blueprint, the Route to Reform, prioritizes…the Gulf, the planet, and future generations. </span>

===**<span class="Underline">1NC Port Dredging Link</span>**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Dredging dramatically reduces congestion and oil use**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mulligan and Lombardo 10** -- *Department of Accountancy, Finance and Economics, Western Carolina University Center for Maritime studies, United States Merchant Marine Academy (Robert and Gary, "Panama Canal expansion: alleviating global climate change", August 24, www.springerlink.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/ylw8127203w2043m/fulltext.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Clearly, climate change-causing emissions can…highway and rail systems and transported by ship.</span>

===2NC Generic Links=== 
**The plan phases out oil consumption**
**Metro Magazine, 10** (“Study: Transportation options could reduce oil dependency,” November 23, 2010, http://www.metro-magazine.com/news/story/2010/11/Study-Transportation-options-could-reduce-oil-dependency.aspx)
By increasing competition among transportation modes…transportation system efficiency and services.

**The link magnitude is huge – transportation even outweighs economic affluence**
**HSR Association, No Date** (US High Speed Rail Association, “Rail - The Solution to Rising Gas Prices,” 21st Century Transportation for America, http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html)
America's dependency on oil is the most…designs that force people into cars for every trip.

===1NC Global War Impact=== 
**Receding oil dependence causes global collapse and creates multiple scenarios for global warfare**
**Lawrence 08** (Andrew Lawrence, Stanford, International Relations, “‘The Most Inconvenient Truth:’ The Necessity of Good Governance in Oil-Exporters,” Stanford Journal of International Relations, Fall/Winter 2008, http://www.stanford.edu/group/sjir/pdf/Oil_Governance_REAL_final.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Yet because “oil wealth is robustly associated…and, by extension, throughout the world.</span>

===2NC Transition Wars=== 
**Transition from oil increases instability and the propensity for conflict**
**Miller 10** (Gregory D. Miller, assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence,” Center for Strategic International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 33, No. 2, pp. 107-119, April 2010, http://www.asiaresearch.ir/files/10apr_Miller.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Assuming that the logic is correct and…understand and prepare for the risks as well.</span>

===2NC AT: Causes War=== 
**Doesn’t trigger instability – deterrence and diplomatic credibility solves conflict**
**Taspinar 09** (Omer, Prof. Nat’l. Sec. Studies – National War College, and Dir. Turkey Program – Brookings, in “Global Strategic Assessment 2009: America's Security Role in a Changing World”, Ed. Patrick M. Cronin, p. 212, At http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/ifnss/0017602/index.html)
<span class="Underline">The United States has key national security…Middle East to a significant degree.</span>

===2NC AT: Causes War -- Persian Gulf=== 
**We’ll never leave the gulf and presence is stabilizing**
**Schlesinger et al 06** **-** *James R. Schlesinger is the former Secretary of Defense and was the first Secretary of Energy, a consultant to the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), a member of the Defense Policy Board, member of the Arms Control Nonproliferation Advisory Board of the Department of State, and a member of the Homeland Security Advisory Council, David Victor is the Director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development at Stanford University and Adjunct Senior Fellow for Science and Technology at the Council on Foreign Relations, *John Deutchis an Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, served as Undersecretary of Energy, Deputy Secretary of Defense, and Director of Central Intelligence(Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force Report #58, “National Security Consequences of U.S. Oil Dependency”, http://www.cfr.org/energy-security/national-security-consequences-us-oil-dependency/p11683)
<span class="Underline">Even if the Persian Gulf did…deployment to the region, if required.</span>

===1NC Economy Impact=== 
**Oil dependence provides cheap upstream input which underlies every sector of the economy**
**Griswold 11** (Daniel Griswold, former director of the Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, “What’s Wrong With Imported Oil?” March 30, 2011, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/what%E2%80%99s-wrong-with-imported-oil/)
<span class="Underline">The money we save buying oil more cheaply…to spend on domestic goods and services. </span>

===1NC Hegemony Impact=== 
**Oil dependence is critical to sustain hegemony – abdication of dependence collapses global leadership**
**Drezner 08** **–** professor of international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University (Daniel Dresdner, 30 November-December 2008, “Oil Dependence As Virtue,” The National Interest, http://www.relooney.info/0_New_8597.pdf)
<span class="Underline">But would this really be the…independence, only the short-term gains.</span>

===**1NC Iran Economy Impact**=== 
**That decimates the Iranian economy**
**Weiss et al 09** (Daniel J. Weiss, Senior Fellow and the Director of Climate Strategy at American Progress, Christopher Beddor, National Security Intern at Center for American Progress, Winny Chen, fellow, Senior Associate, Crimes Against Humanity program, Rudy deLeon, Senior Vice President of National Security and International Policy at American Progress, Shiyong Park, intern with the National Security team at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, “Securing America’s Future: Enhancing Our National Security by Reducing Oil Dependence and Environmental Damage,” Center for American Progress, August 2009, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/08/pdf/energy_security.pdf)
<span class="Underline">America’s oil dependence has other indirect…demand dominates oil trade with friendly sources.</span>

**Economic downturn causes Iranian lash out – precipitates broader conflict**
**Fishman 12** (Alex Fishman, “Beware Iranian desperation,” Y Net News, Jan 17, http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4176675,00.html)
<span class="Underline">Everybody talks about the spring, because everyone…prompt the international community to lift the chokehold.</span>

**Extinction**
**Chossudovsky, 10** **—** Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Michael, “Towards a World War III Scenario? The Role of Israel in Triggering an Attack on Iran”, 8/13/2010, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.phpcontext=va&aid=20584)
<span class="Underline">For several years now Iran has been…its allies to postpone an attack on Iran. </span>

===1NC Leverage Impact=== 
**US oil consumption gives us crucial leverage – solves war**
**Dalmia 06** (Shikha Dalmia, senior analyst, Reason Foundation, “Defend America, Buy More Iranian Oil,” Reason, May 5, 2006, www.reason.org/commentaries/dalmia_20060505.shtml, accessed 5-15-08)
Our dependence on Middle Eastern oil is…hostility. Energy independence would weaken that incentive.

**This is the key bargaining chip with Syria**
**Howard 08** (Roger Howard, author and writer, specialist in oil and the Middle East, “An Ode to Oil,” The Wall Street Journal, November 29, 2008, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122791647562165587.html)
Syria illustrates how this leverage can work. Although…shown signs of a new willingness to compromise.

===1NC Terrorism Impact=== 
**Break from oil dependence leads to instability and fuels terror**
**Blanchette 08** **–** Deputy Chief Engineer for Army Programs at the Software Engineering (Stephen Blanchette Jr., Deputy Chief Engineer for Army Programs at the Software Engineering, 08, “A hydrogen economy and its impact on the world as we know it,” Energy Policy 36,522–530, ideas.repec.org/a/eee/enepol/v36y2008i2p522-530.html)
<span class="Underline">More generally, a shift away from the oil…security only to lose in national security.</span>

===1NC Unimak Pass=== 
**Reducing dependence will force Canada to jump ship to Asia – right now, they’re wholly dependent on US consumption**
**Edmonton Journal 12** (Edmonton Journal, “Growing U.S. Energy Output a Threat to Canada,” January 20, 2012, http://blogs.edmontonjournal.com/2012/01/20/growing-u-s-energy-output-a-threat-to-canada/)
<span class="Underline">The shrinking U.S. market for foreign…Alberta — can understand what that means.</span>

**Canadian shift to Asia will go through the Unimak pass – this will devastate the regional environment decimating plankton, sea lions, and sea otter populations**
**Byers 12** (Michael Byers, professor at the University of British Columbia, and Canada Research Chair in Global Politics and International Law, “Canada’s Oil-Sands Bonanza Could Mean Disaster for Alaska’s Coastline,” The Seattle Times, May 17, 2012, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/opinion/2018232475_guest18byers.html)
<span class="Underline">Twenty-three years after the Exxon Valdez…in U.S. waters, this time in Unimak Pass.</span>

**Sea lions and sea otters are keystone species – loss causes massive ocean biodiversity collapse**
**Carnegie Mellon 03** (Biodiversity, p. http://telstar.ote.cmu.edu/environ/m3/s5/02biodiversity.shtml)
<span class="Underline">There are certain species whose role…entire community would be altered significantly.</span>

**Extinction – this is a moral side constraint**
**Craig 03** **—** Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law (Robin Kundis, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)
<span class="Underline">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for…a few fishers go out of business as a result. </span>

===2NC Unimak Pass -- Turns China Relations/Warming=== 
**Sino-Canadian shift shatters already turbulent US-Sino relations and makes warming inevitable which turns their impact**
**Tu 12** (Kevin Jianjun – senior associate in the Carnegie Energy and Climate Program, China should be cautious about the Canadian Oil Sands, Phoenix News Group, February 10, 2012, http://carnegieendowment.org/2012/02/10/china-should-be-cautious-about-canadian-oil-sands)
First, Canadian oil sands exports to China could…when they make future overseas investment decisions.

===2NC Unimak Pass -- Quebec Secession Impact=== 
**Minor economic decline leads to Quebec secession**
**Nuechterlein 99 –** A political scientist and writer who resides near Charlottesville, Virginia. He is the author of numerous books on American politics and foreign policy (Donald, CANADA DEBATES A VARIETY OF DOMESTIC ISSUES, September 1999 http://donaldnuechterlein.com/1999/canada.html)
<span class="Underline">The fourth news story, which did not…Quebec nationalists are in the ascendancy.</span>

**Leads to US Russian war**
**NWOI 96** (New World Order Intelligence, May, 1996, http://www.survivalistskills.com/quebec.htm/)
<span class="Underline">Lamont's forecasts, based upon all of…diplomatic buffer", has ceased to exist.</span>

**Extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 09** (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)
<span class="Underline">Since the end of the Cold War, many…on their own by executive order.</span>

===1NC Venezuela Economy Impact=== 
**That crushes Venezuelan economic stability – they tailor production to the US**
**McCarthy 08** **–** Shawn McCarthy, Senior analyst of global energy and program manager at IDC Government Insights, “Chavez's fire fails to ignite markets; Doubt the fiery Venezuelan leader can afford to go without revenue from crude exports to the U.S.,” February 12, 2008, from The Globe and Mail, lexis, MC
<span class="Underline">Still, analysts are shrugging off the latest…markets for its product, Mr. Tissot said.</span>

**Leads to lash out and war**
**Litle 08** **–** Justice Litle, editor of Outstanding Investments, “South America and the Petrocrat Problem,” March 8th, 2008, From the Taipan Publishing Team, http://www.taipanpublishinggroup.com/TPG/archives/Daily_030408a.html
<span style="font-size: 8px;">This is why the possibility of an actual Colombian invasion can’t be ruled out. The more Venezuela’s economic situation deteriorates, the less Chavez has to lose in executing an insane gamble abroad. The Petrocrat Problem Whether South America erupts into war or not -- which could still happen as of this writing -- Venezuela nicely illustrates the “Petrocrat Problem.” (While democracy means “rule by the people,” a petrocracy is basically “rule by oil interests.”) In short, the Petrocrat Problem is this: A number of regimes around the world -- from Venezuela to Iran to Russia to various members of OPEC -- are dependent on the high price of oil for their continued stability. These regimes have become addicted to their oil money inflows. They have been spending like mad and making big promises to maintain stability. If those oil inflows were to stop (or significantly decline), economic chaos could ensue. Populist sentiment could erupt. Entrenched leaders could fall. This presents a nasty Catch-22 because, if the price of oil falls enough to threaten one (or all) of the various petrocrat regimes, the incentive to “stir things up” becomes greatly magnified. Or think of it like this: If the price of oil were to go into real decline, Hugo Chavez would have a big problem. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would have a big problem. Vladimir Putin would have a big problem. The House of Saud would have a big problem… and so on. The end result of an oil-price decline could thus be one (or more than one) of these players doing something drastic. (Like touching off a small-scale hot war, for example.) </span>

**Escalates and goes global**
**Rochlin 94** (James Francis, Professor of Political Science at Okanagan University College, “Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America,” p. 130-131)
<span class="Underline">While there were economic motivations for Canadian…will be discussed in the next chapter.</span>

===1NC Venezuela Narcotics Impact=== 
**Reducing oil dependence forces the Venezuelan government to focus on upward mobility with a switch to narcotics**
**Miller 10** (Gregory D. Miller, assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence,” Center for Strategic International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 33, No. 2, pp. 107-119, April 2010, http://www.asiaresearch.ir/files/10apr_Miller.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Based on these trends, many OPEC…in rather than suffer personal hardship.</span>

**Leads to nuclear instability and genocide – spills over into widespread regional conflict**
**Manwaring 05**** (Dr. Max G. Manwaring, Professor of Military Strategy at the U.S. Army War College, retired U.S. Army colonel, Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, PhD, political science, “Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare,” Strategic Studies Institute, October 2005, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub628.pdf)
<span class="Underline">President Chávez also understands that the process…global security, peace, and prosperity. 65</span>

==<span class="Underline">Oil Spills Good</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Renewables</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Oil spills pave the way for renewables and oil independence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kho 10** – a reporter and editor in The New York Times' Green Inc. blog, The Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, AOL's DailyFinance, MIT's Technology Review, The Christian Science Monitor, Reuters.com, Earth2Tech (Jennifer, “Oil Spill's Impact: Bad for the Environment, Good for Clean Energy?” Daily Finance, 5/5/10, http://www.dailyfinance.com/2010/05/05/oil-spills-impact-bad-for-the-environment-good-for-clean-ener/) </span>
<span class="Underline">As Ron Pernick, principal of research firm Clean…enable utilities to buy more renewable energy. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Solves extinction and turns their offense – oil dependence also causes global warfare**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Klarevas, 9** — professor at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Louis, “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony”, 12/15/2009, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">As national leaders from around the world…this is to promote a national strategy of greengemony.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Space Colonization Bad</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Environment Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Environmental destruction is not inevitable, but if we “get off the rock” it is—extinction.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Williams, 10** (Lynda, professor of physics, San Francisco State U; “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization” The Peace Review; Spring 2010; http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Life on Earth is more urgently threatened by the…off the planet into the final frontier of our dreams.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Stimulus Bad</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Data Cooking</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Data Cooking</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Data Cooking DA – public investment is manipulated by project managers who cook the data to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, 10** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, pg. 344-367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>
<span class="Underline">On the dark side, project managers and planners…transparency and accountability is necessary.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That causes economic disasters – turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, 10** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, pg. 344-367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>
<span class="Underline">In sum, the UK study shows that strong interests…designed like that, as disasters waiting to happen.</span>
====<span class="Underline">2NC Framing</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**We’re better off not doing the plan – comparative evidence** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, et al., 3** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, Nils Bruzelius, and Werner Rothengatter, “Megaprojects and Risk,” Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">Sociologists like Ulrich Beck and Anthony Giddens…and consequential as megaproject development.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Prefer our turns over their solvency evidence – evaluating these issues is a prerequisite to successful policy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, et al., 3** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, Nils Bruzelius, and Werner Rothengatter, “Megaprojects and Risk,” Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, though we did not write the…are better informed and more democratic.</span>
====<span class="Underline"> 2NC Turns Case</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Turns the case – dooms the entire aff to failure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, et al., 3** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, Nils Bruzelius, and Werner Rothengatter, “Megaprojects and Risk,” Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">There is a paradox here, however. At the same…by Edward Merrow in a RAND study of megaprojects:</span>

====2NC Environment Impact==== 
<span class="Underline">**Flawed planning wrecks the environment – independently turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg, et al., 3** (Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management, former Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, Nils Bruzelius, and Werner Rothengatter, “Megaprojects and Risk,” Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">For environmental and social effects of projects, one…say especially not – numbers produced by analysts.</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Flyvbjerg Prodict</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Flyvbjerg’s data is the most comprehensive study and confirmed by multiple other studies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Poole and Samuel, 11** (Robert, director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation, and Peter, senior fellow at the Reason Foundation, “Transportation Mega-Projects and Risk”, http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/planning/tysons_docs/090711transportation_mega_projects_risk_big_dig.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">First, Flyvbjerg and colleagues cite studies showing…a lack of technical skills or insufficient data.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Stimulus Good</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">2AC Economy</span>=== 
**Rapidly transforming politics dooms austerity in the short term – only spending now can lift us out of the recession**
**Wren-Lewis, 12** (Simon, economics professor at Oxford University, “Austerity and not wasting a crisis,” 3/17/12, http://mainlymacro.blogspot.com/2012/03/austerity-and-not-wasting-crisis.html, Tashma)
In the austerity versus stimulus debate, I…just displaying my ignorance of political science.

**Only a risk of a positive multiplier – their evidence doesn’t account for low interest rates**
**Stevenson and Wolfers, 12** (Betsey, Assistant Professor of Business and Public Policy at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, Justin, Nonresident Senior Fellow, Economic Studies, Brookings Institution, “U.S. Economy Needs Stimulus, Not Soothsayers,” Brookings Institution, 4/3/12, http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/04/03-stimulus-wolfers, Tashma)
These examples are the place to begin, because…taking into account any Keynesian effects.

**Fiscal stimulus is vital to generate aggregate demand – lifts us out of the recession**
**Boushey, 11** (Heather, senior economist at the Center for American Progress, “Government Spending is Just What Our Economy Needs,” US News, 11/4/11, http://www.usnews.com/debate-club/does-stimulus-spending-work/government-spending-is-just-what-our-economy-needs)
Our nation's economy is approaching a precipice…economic growth. Congress just needs to act.

==<span class="Underline">Trade Bad</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Regional Trade Agreements Good</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Free Trade Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Only RTA's solve free trade --- the best causality determinants prove** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rose 04** (Andrew Rose, Professor of Business, UC Berkeley, “Do We Really Know That the WTO Increases Trade,” 2004)</span>
<span class="Underline">The good news is that the model works well. Countries…is, the data manifestly can yield positive effects.26</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC War Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s derivation of trade leads to war --- only RTA’s pacify tensions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Thoma 07** (Mark Thoma, Professor of Economics, University of Oregon, “Trade Liberalization and War,” July, 2007, http://economistsview.typepad.com/economistsview/2007/07/trade-liberaliz.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Globalisation is by construction an increase in both…necessary political counterbalance to economic globalisation.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Trade Good</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">2AC Disease</span>=== 
**Globalization solves disease**
**Mahmoud 6** (Ade , Senior Molecular Biologist in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, former President of Merck , THE IMPACT OF GLOBALIZATION ON INFECTIOUS DISEASE EMERGENCE AND CONTROL: Exploring the Consequences and Opportunities,” online: http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11588&page=80)
Changes in travel and trade and the disruption…public health, and tropical medicine in particular.

==<span class="Underline">Transportation Construction Bad</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Economy</span>=== 
**New intermodal shifts and transportation from the plan collapses the economy ---**

**Construction DA – causes short term decline**
**VTPI 10** (Victoria Transport Policy Institute, independent research organization dedicated to developing innovative and practical solutions to transportation problems, “Comprehensive Transport Planning,” Transportation Demand Management Encyclopedia, November 12, 2010, http://www.vtpi.org/tdm/tdm76.htm)
Transportation projects often cause delays and…there are usually residual, uncompensated costs.

**The impact is widespread and spills over – this internal link turns travel time costs**
**VTPI 12** (Victoria Transport Policy Institute, independent research organization dedicated to developing innovative and practical solutions to transportation problems, “Transportation Cost and Benefit Analysis II – Travel Time Costs,” February 22, 2012, http://www.vtpi.org/tca/tca0502.pdf)
Highway construction traffic delays can impose…portion of projected travel time savings.

**This is a net-increase in cost – future economic benefits aren’t enough and the scholarship behind their studies are wrong**
**VTPI 10** (Victoria Transport Policy Institute, independent research organization dedicated to developing innovative and practical solutions to transportation problems, “Comprehensive Transport Planning,” Transportation Demand Management Encyclopedia, November 12, 2010, http://www.vtpi.org/tdm/tdm76.htm)
Transportation project evaluation often fails to…Uncompensated, residual costs are often ignored.

**Underpricing DA – the plan causes too much demand too fast– turns the case**
**VTPI 10** (Victoria Transport Policy Institute, independent research organization dedicated to developing innovative and practical solutions to transportation problems, “Comprehensive Transport Planning,” Transportation Demand Management Encyclopedia, November 12, 2010, http://www.vtpi.org/tdm/tdm76.htm)
The Issue Market distortions that underprice transport…from fifty cents to a dollar per meal.

==<span class="Underline">Turkey Relations Bad</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC EU Accession</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**US relations with Turkey trade off with EU relations and accession- Europe perceives Turkey as a US Trojan Horse** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Skocz 10** (Marcin, PHd Candidate at Wroclaw University, “Relations Within the US-Turkey-EU Triangle: Will the New Policy Toward the Middle East Be Good for Turkey?” Journal of Turkish Weekly, publication of International Strategic Research Organization, 3/27/10, http://www.turkishweekly.net/op-ed/2649/relations-within-the-us-turkey-eu-triangle-will-the-new-policy-toward-the-middle-east-be-good-for-turkey-.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Cooperation with the U.S. has its…of economic, cultural and political relations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Turkish accession solves extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Domaniç 7** (Seda, Centre for Economic and Foreign Policy Studies, “The Turkish Accession to the European Union: Mutually beneficial ? Mutually possible?” Institute of Public Affairs, 1/3/07, http://www.isp.org.pl/files/18444490470897409001169459097.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The above-presented discussion has been a…in Europe, much more than before.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Util Good</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Util Good</span>=== 
**No impact to ethics – util outweighs**
**Cummisky 96** (David, professor of philosophy at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, pg. 145)
We must not obscure the issue by characterizing this…may have to sacrifice some to save many.

**Allowing the human race to burn in nuclear fire is no different than causing it to happen – you are responsible for what your plan causes**
**NYE** Professor of IR – JFK School of Government – Harvard **1986** Nuclear Ethics
Motives and means are only two dimensions of moral reasoning…a moral difference that pales into insignificance.” 59

==<span class="Underline">Warming Good</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Ice Age</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Ice Age</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Ice age is coming now – comparatively outweighs warming and causes extinction – only warming solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chapman 08** (Phil Chapman, geophysicist and astronautical engineer, bachelor of science degree in Physics and Mathematics from Sydney University, a master of science degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Sorry to ruin the fun, but an ice age cometh,” 4/23/08, The Australian, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/sorry-to-ruin-the-fun-but-an-ice-age-cometh/story-e6frg73o-1111116134873) </span>
<span class="Underline">What is scary about the picture is that there…think it possible you may be mistaken." </span>


=<span class="Underline">Impact Defense</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">Africa Conflict</span>== 
===**No Escalation**=== 
**No escalation**
**Brooks, 2005** (Doug, President of the International Peace Operations Association, January 5, 2005, Foreign Policy, “Africa Keeps Its Peace,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2005/01/05/africa_keeps_its_peace?page=full)
The African record does have its share of…still infinitely better than doing nothing at all.

===**Impact Inevitable**=== 
**Geographical divisions make conflict inevitable**
**Kotkin, 2007** (Stephen, Vice Dean, Rosengarten Professor of Modern and Contemporary History Professor of International Affairs @ Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs @ Princeton University, July 8, 2007, New York Times, “In Africa, One Step Forward and Two Back,” http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/08/business/yourmoney/08offtheshelf.html?pagewanted=all)
But here is a head scratcher: although globalization…foreigners eager to invest -- into a nightmare.

==<span class="Underline">AIDs</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Extinction</span>=== 
**AIDS can’t cause extinction** 
**Posner 5** (Richard, Senior Lecturer in Law – University of Chicago, Judge – United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, 1-1, Skeptic, “Catastrophe: The Dozen Most Significant Catastrophic Risks And What We Can Do About Them,” http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html#abstract)
Yet the fact that Homo sapiens has managed…the AIDS pandemic. And there is always a lust time.

**Virulence is decreasing — biology guarantees momentum goes neg**
**DNC 5** (Daily News Central, Health Media Company, “HIV Virus May Be Evolving to Less Deadly Form,” September 30th, http://health.dailynewscentral.com/content/view/1716/0)
New evidence suggests that the AIDS virus…a virus from the host's immune system.

==<span class="Underline">Air Power</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Fails</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Air power fails**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Biddle 06** (Stephen D., Senior Fellow in National Security at the Council on Foreign Relations and Strategic Studies Institute at the U.S. Army War College, “Allies, Airpower, and Modern Warfare The Afghan Model in Afghanistan and Iraq,” International Security 30.3)</span>
<span class="Underline">With no clear cases of success by overmatched…cannot replace suitable skills on the ground.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Amazon</span>== 
===**1NC Recovering**=== 
**Rainforest recovering now**
**Glusing, 9** (Jens, Spiegel Online, " Can New Growth Save the Amazon Rainforest?," 8/13, http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,642199,00.html)
Is the Amazon rainforest recovering? New…all over the world, is "undervalued."

===1NC Alt Causes=== 
**Alt causes:**
**A) Illegal logging**
**Lane 8** (Jim, “World Wildlife Fund Exonerates Ethanol on Amazonian Deforestation and Food Production”, Biofuels Digest, Lexis)
May 27, 2008 (Biofuels Digest delivered by Newstex) -- The World Wildlife Fund has concluded, in a new…700 square miles in the 12 months ending last July.

**B) Mining**
**Butler 6** (Rhett, “Deforestation in the Amazon”, Monga Bay, http://www.mongabay.com/brazil.html)
Mining has impacted some parts of the Amazon…material, fuelwood collection, and subsistence agriculture.

**C) Climate change – it’s the other way around**
**Lovejoy 8** (Thomas, President – The Heinz Center, 2-14, Impact Of Tropical Forest Destruction On The Climate, CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis)
In addition climate change can have a…us close to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit by 2030.

**D) Cattle ranching**
**Felsinger, 9** (Alex, Writer at Planet Save, "80% of Amazon Deforestation Stems from Cattle Ranching," Jan 29, http://planetsave.com/2009/01/29/80-percent-of-amazon-deforestation-stems-from-cattle-ranching-2/)
Greenpeace Brazil has released a report at the…from setting up in the Amazon. Source: Planetsave (http://s.tt/12tFw)

==<span class="Underline">Antibiotic Resistance</span>== 
**Empirics disprove**
**Warner 2k** (Justin, Food Chemical News, July 17, Lexis)
Furthermore, Sahm asserted that simply…a number of different drugs.

==<span class="Underline">Arctic War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
**No risk of Arctic war**
**Dyer, 12** — former senior lecturer in war studies at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst (Gwynne, “Race for Arctic mostly rhetoric”, Winnipeg Free Press, 8/4/2012, http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/opinion/columnists/race-for-arctic-mostly-rhetoric-164986566.html, Deech)
First, you should never ask the barber if you need…seven metres. But that's a problem for another day.

**Warming leads to cooperation not conflict**
**Jones et al. 12** (Bruce Jones, Senior Fellow and Director of the Managing Global Order Initiative, David Steven, Senior Fellow, New York University’s Center on International Cooperation, leads MGO’s Geopolitics of Scarcity Project, Andrew Hart, doctoral candidate at the University of Colorado, “Chill Out – Why Cooperation is Balancing Conflict Among Major Powers in the New Arctic,” Managing Global Order, Foreign Policy at Brookings, May 2012, http://www.cic.nyu.edu/mgo/docs/jones_arctic.pdf)
As growing multilateral momentum demonstrates, the…grabs, and domination of key maritime chokepoints.

===**No War -- Russia**=== 
**Russia won’t go to war over the Arctic**
**Smith, 11** — Colonel in the United States Air Force, Professor of National Security Affairs and Senior Developmental Education Student (Strategy and Policy) at the Naval War College (Reginald R., “The Arctic: A New Partnership Paradigm or the Next ‘Cold War’?”, Joint Force Quarterly, July 2011, http://www.ndu.edu/press/arctic-new-cold-war.html)
In defense and protection of the border and…the opportunity for U.S. partnership in the region.

===**No War -- China**=== 
**Neither will China**
**Campbell, 12** — USCC Policy Analyst, Foreign Affairs and Energy (Caitlin, “China and the Arctic: Objectives and Obstacles”, U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Staff Research Report, 4/13/12, http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/2012/China-and-the-Arctic_Apr2012.pdf)
Hu also expressed that China respected the territorial rights…are all looking to inform and influence policymakers. 7

===No War -- US=== 
**The U.S. doesn’t care**
**Jones, et. al., 12** — senior fellow and director of the Managing Global Order Initiative at Brookings and New York University’s Center on International Cooperation, AND, doctoral candidate at the University of Colorado, AND, senior fellow at NYU/CIC and leads MGO’s Geopolitics of Scarcity Project (Bruce, Andrew Hart, and David Steven, “Chill Out: Why Cooperation is Balancing Conflict Among Major Powers in the New Arctic”, Brookings Institution, May 2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones.pdf)
The United States is a partial exception to the…Harbor at the end of the chain of Aleutian Islands.

==<span class="Underline">Asteroids</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Extinction</span>=== 
**No extinction**
**Gil 3/8/12** (Marguerite Gil, Miami News Times, “Swamp People Kill Low-Cholesterol Gators that Taste Like Chicken,” http://blogs.miaminewtimes.com/shortorder/2012/03/swamp_people_kill_low_choleste_1.php, Sawyer)
Have you caught an episode of Swamp People…hunt, catch, kill and masticate whatever moves.

**No impact — Newest data**
**Space Daily, 11** (“NASA Space Telescope Finds Fewer Asteroids Near Earth Space Daily”, 10/10/2011, lexis)
New observations by NASA's Wide-field Infrared…Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass.

==<span class="Underline">Biodiversity</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Collapse Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Deforestation makes biodiversity loss inevitable** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cardillo, 06** (Marcel, Division of Biology, Imperial College London, 2006, “Disappearing forests and biodiversity loss: which areas should we protect?,” International Forestry Review Volume 8, Issue 2, http://www.tempoandmode.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/int-forestry-review-june-2006-cardillo.pdf, Hensel)</span>
<span class="Underline">The destruction of forests and other habitats…of forest loss to 2020 (Grelle 2005). </span>

==<span class="Underline">Bioweapons</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**Dispersion fails and countermeasures solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mueller, 6** — Professor of Political Science and International Relations at Ohio State (John, “Overblown”, pg. 20-22, 2006)</span>
<span class="Underline">Properly developed and deployed, biological…biological warfare the easier he seems to think the task is."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Empirics prove**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Neill, 4** (Brendan, “Weapons of Minimum Destruction”, 2004, http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CA694.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">David C Rapoport, professor of political science at…Tigers have not used WMD since.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Risks exaggerated** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cirincione, 6** (Joseph, Director for Non-Proliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Exaggerating the threat of bioterrorism,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=18135) </span>
<span class="Underline">Milton Leitenberg is one of America’s leading scientific…today.”? Leitenberg concludes, “No. Absolutely not</span>

==<span class="Underline">China Relations</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Collapse Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Structural factors make the collapse of China relations inevitable – domestic politics don’t act as a check** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Feigenbaum, 2/7/11** [ Evan A, head, Asia practice group, at Eurasia Group, and is also adjunct senior fellow for Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations, Washington, DC, Why US-China relations will get tougher, http://www.business-standard.com/india/news/evanfeigenbaumus-china-relations-will-get-tougher/424210/] </span>
<span class="Underline">Structural changes are afoot that are sure to…next several years are sure to be more fraught.</span>

**The pivot screws China relations**
**Lee, 12** — East and South Asian affairs correspondent for Asia Times (Peter, “US learns hard lessons of Asia 'pivot'”, Asia Times, 10/27/12, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/NJ27Ad02.html)
With sanction from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham…United States does not seem to have planned for.

===<span class="Underline">Relations Inevitable</span>=== 
**China relations inevitable – mutual interest outweighs** 
**Feng, 12** [May 3rd, Zhu, “No one Wants a Clash”, *professor in the School of International Studies and the deputy director of the Center for International and Strategic Studies at Beijing University, http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2012/05/02/are-we-headed-for-a-cold-war-with-china/no-one-wants-a-cold-war-between-the-us-and-china]
However there is little worry that the two…but mutual interest — especially in trade.

===No War Impact=== 
**No escalation into war**
**Lee 3-5** (Kuan Yew, Former Prime Minister – Singapore, “Interview: Lee Kuan Yew on the Future of U.S.- China Relations”, The Atlantic, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/03/interview-lee-kuan-yew-on-the-future-of-us-china-relations/273657/)
Competition between the United States and China…see themselves as disadvantaged in this fight.

==<span class="Underline">China War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**No U.S.-China war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chapman, 12** — columnist and editorial writer for the Chicago Tribune (Steve, “Are We Headed for a Fight with China?”, RealClearWorld, 5/27/2012, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2012/05/27/are_we_headed_for_a_fight_with_china_114289.html, Deech)</span>
<span class="Underline">Pessimism is a perfectly reasonable response to…far, and it just might keep doing so. </span>

<span class="Underline">**No motive for war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bremmer, 10** — president of Eurasia Group and author (Ian, “China vs. America: Fight of the Century”, Prospect, 3/22/2010, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/)</span>
<span class="Underline">China will not mount a military challenge to…business elite privileged investment opportunities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Economics check**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Perry and Scowcroft, 9** – Professor at Stanford University, AND, Resident Trustee of the Forum for International Policy (William and Brent, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy”, Council on Foreign Relations, 2009)</span>
<span class="Underline">Economic interdependence provides an incentive to…promising dialogues on larger strategic issues.</span>

**Status quo deterrence checks US China war --- no escalation**
**Glaser, 11** — Professor of PoliSci and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington University (Charles, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?”, March/April Foreign Affairs)
What does all this imply about the rise…political spiral fueled by nuclear competition.
==<span class="Underline">China-Japan War</span>== 
===**No War**=== 
**No Sino-Japanese conflict – multiple factors mean no escalation**
**Sakuwa 09** (Kentaro Sakuwa, department of political science Indiana university, “A not so dangerous dyad: China’s rise and Sino–Japanese rivalry”, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, oxford journals online)
Power transition theory thus provides a…considered to have ameliorated the potential conflicts.

===AT: Senkakus=== 
**Recent government deal prevents escalation – there’s no impact**
**Bush 9/5/12** (Richard C. Bush III, Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, “Japan-China Territorial Tensions Should Ease with Island Deal,” Brookings Institution, http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/09/05-japan-china-island-bush?cid=em_alert)
Yet China and nationalistic Chinese should…actually helped China’s interests, not hurt them.

==<span class="Underline">China-Russia War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
**Structural factors make war inevitable**
**Lo, 12** — independent analyst and author of “Axis of Convenience: Moscow, Beijing, and the New Geopolitics” (Bobo, “A Partnership of Convenience”, New York Times, 6/7/12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/08/opinion/a-partnership-of-convenience.html, Deech)
Yet appearances are deceiving. The self-styled…significant differences where they occur.

==<span class="Underline">Cyberwar</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**No impact to cyberwar — their evidence is hype**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mahnken, 12** — Chair of Economic Geography and National Security at the U.S. Naval War College, visiting scholar at the Philip Merrill Center for Strategic Studies at The Johns Hopkins University’s Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Policy Planning, primary author of the 2008 National Defense Strategy and contributing author of the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, master’s degree and doctorate in international affairs from SAIS, National Security Fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University (Tom, “Why cyberwar isn't the warfare you should worry about”, Foreign Policy, 7/23/2012, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/07/23/avoiding_cyber_hysteria, Deech)</span>
<span class="Underline">Strong stuff. And certainly there is reason…it may actually decrease its likelihood. </span>

**Defenses are strong and redundancy solves**
**Lewis, 01** – fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, (James A., “Assessing the Risks of Cyber Terrorism, Cyber War and Other Cyber Threats:” Center for Strategic and International Studies, December, 2002, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/021101_risks_of_cyberterror.pdf)
The 911 emergency response system, a specialized…“oldfashioned” threats pose a greater danger….” 14

**The threat is hyped**
**Lewis 02** Ph.D., Senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program CSIS. Before joining CSIS, he worked at the Departments of State and Commerce as a Foreign Service officer and as a member of the Senior Executive Service. Lewis’s recent work has focused on Cybersecurity (James, December 2002, “Assessing the Risks of Cyber Terrorism, Cyber War and Other Cyber Threats:” Center for Strategic and International Studies, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/021101_risks_of_cyberterror.pdf)//DR. H
Much of the early work on the ‘cyber…incidents result from the actions of recreational hackers.

==<span class="Underline">Disease</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**No impact — empirics, genetics, and medicine**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Posner, 5** — Senior Lecturer in Law at the University of Chicago, judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Richard, “Catastrophe: the dozen most significant catastrophic risks and what we can do about them”, 1/1/2005, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html#abstract)</span>
<span class="Underline">Yet the fact that Homo sapiens has…there is always a lust time. </span>

**No extinction – diseases favor limited lethality and medicine will check**
**Posner 4** (Richard, Judge – US Court of Appeals, Catastrophe: Risk and Response, p. 22-24)
Yet the fact that Homo sapiens has managed…pandemic. And there is always a lust time.


===**Burnout**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Disease burns out**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morse, 4** (Dr. Stephen is director of the Center for Public Health Preparedness, at the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University, and a faculty member in the epidemiology department , May, pg. http://www.actionbioscience.org/newfrontiers/morse.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">A pandemic is a very big epidemic. It requires a…pandemic. Luckily, it’s not an easy thing to do.</span>

**Burnout solves**
Joshua **Lederberg**, prof of genetics at Stanford University School of Medicine, **1999**, Epidemic The World of Infectious Disease, p. 13
The toll of the fourteenth-century plague, the “Black…disturbed, often in the wake of large-scale ecological upsets.

==<span class="Underline">Economy</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Collapse Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Europe and China make the impact inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Espo, 6/2** (David, 6/2/2012, “US economy souring, so what's a Democrat to do?” http://www.seattlepi.com/news/article/US-economy-souring-so-what-s-a-Democrat-to-do-3604267.php</span>
<span class="Underline">Compounding the uncertainty, another significant threat…the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Eurozone collapse makes the impact inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Xinhua News, 5/23**/12 [OECD: Global Economy Recovery Fragile, reprinted, http://english.cri.cn/6826/2012/05/23/191s701502.htm] </span>
<span class="Underline">The global economy has embarked on a fragile…help address the problem of income inequality."</span>

===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Decline doesn’t cause war --- their evidence is hype**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barnett 9** (Thomas, Senior Strategic Researcher – Naval War College, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis”, Asset Protection Network, 8-25, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)</span>
<span class="Underline">When the global financial crisis struck roughly a…to proceed apace. That's what the Internet is for.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Econ decline solves its own impact --- no escalation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nordstrom 2k** – department of political science at Penn State (D Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)</span>
<span class="Underline">Conflict settlement is also a distinct route…compete economically with the United States.</span>

===Resilient=== 
<span class="Underline">**Economy is resilient**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zakaria, 9** — Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University and Editor of Newsweek International (Fareed, “The Secrets of Stability”, Newsweek, 12/21/2009, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">One year ago, the world seemed as if it might…the other and each historical in nature.</span>

<span class="Underline">**US institutions check – resiliency and diversity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Somerville 08** (Glenn Somerville "Paulson: Economy resilient but Fed move helpful." Reuters. 22 Jan. 2008. http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20080122/bs_nm/usa_economy_paulson_dc)</span>
<span class="Underline">Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said on Tuesday…long term economic fundamentals are healthy."</span>

===US Not Key=== 
<span class="Underline">**U.S. isn’t key to the global economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**ML, 6** (Merrill Lynch, “US Downturn Won’t Derail World Economy”, 9/18/2006, http://www.ml.com/index.asp?id=7695_7696_8149_63464_70786_71164)</span>
<span class="Underline">A sharp slowdown in the U.S. economy…be hit, but Brazil is set to decouple.</span>

<span class="Underline">**US is not key to the world economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gross**, journalist for Newsweek, **2008** [Daniel, Why It’s Worse Than You Think, 6/7, Newsweek, http://www.newsweek.com/id/140553]</span>
<span class="Underline">While the housing and credit crisis is…into higher prices at the Stop & Shop.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Food</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Alt Causes</span>=== 
**Tons of alt causes to food**
**Myers, 8** — former journalist, editor and general manager of Rural Press Limited (Paul, “Going Hungry in the 21st Century”, Sydney Morning Herald, 12/5/2008, http://www.smh.com.au/news/world/going-hungry-in-the-21st-century/2008/12/05/1228257318407.html)
As world leaders grapple with the…to developed countries' agricultural aid budgets.

==<span class="Underline">Grid</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Alt Causes</span>=== 
**They don’t solve --- lack of standards is a massive alt cause**
**Condon, 09** [Stephanie, Cnet News, “Lack of standards could stymie smart grid”, http://news.cnet.com/8301-13578_3-10187292-38.html]
Integrating information technology into the nation's…need to be addressed right away," he said.

===<span class="Underline">SQ Solves</span>=== 
**Status quo solves**
**Time Magazine, 12** [July, Rise of the Smart Grid. http://business.time.com/2012/07/26/obamas-smart-electrical-grid-plan/]
But behind the scenes, Obama’s billions are…that’s the point of infrastructure—and power.

==<span class="Underline">Hegemony</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Hegemony is inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cox, 11** – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics (Michael, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC, http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">ALI MOORE: Let's look at America - the other side of…deep structural strengths of the American political order.</span>

===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**No risk of hegemonic conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldstein, 11** — professor emeritus of international relations at American University (Joshua S., “Think Again: War”, Foreign Policy, September/October 2011, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war)</span>
<span class="Underline">Nor do shifts in the global balance of…hasn't fired a single shot in battle in 25 years.</span>

**Their internal link can’t affect the structural reasons why heg solves war**
**Maher 11** – Richard Maher, Ph.D. in Political Science from Brown University, Winter 2011, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1
The United States should start planning now for…the United States as indispensable for their own security.

===<span class="Underline">Retrenchment</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Decline causes retrenchment which solves their impact** </span>
<span class="Underline">**MacDonald and Parent, 11** (Paul K., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, Joseph M., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami, “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment,” International Security, Vol. 35, No. 4, Spring 2011, pp. 7–44, http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00034)</span>
<span class="Underline">These arguments have grim implications for contemporary…failed to retrench recovered their relative position.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Iran</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Prolif</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**They aren’t insane**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maloney, 12** — senior fellow at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution (Suzanne, “Weighing A Policy Of Containment For Iran”, NPR, 3/6/12, http://www.npr.org/2012/03/06/148053976/weighing-a-policy-of-containment-for-iran, Deech)</span>
<span class="Underline">But I would argue that there is no evidence…costs and benefits and act in a rational manner.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No near term threat** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Hellman, 10** — intern at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation and student at Duke (Louis, “Current Status of Iran's Nuclear and Ballistic Missile Programs”, 8/13/2010, http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/iran/articles/081709_factsheet_irans_missile_programs/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Current Weapons Capabilities Iran does not…a decade away from development.”[16]</span>

**Iran doesn’t have nukes**
**Risen & Mazzetti 12** (JAMES RISEN and MARK MAZZETTI: The New York Times, “U.S. Agencies See No Move by Iran to Build a Bomb,” 2/25/12, http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/12056/1212697-82.stm)
WASHINGTON -- Even as the United Nations' nuclear…meant that he had a weapons program.

==<span class="Underline">Korea War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Escalation</span>=== 
**No escalation --- both the US and the South would shut down any breakout**
**Bandow 09** (Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow, Cato Institute, “North Korea: Paper Tiger,” June 4, 2009, http://www.campaignforliberty.com/article.php?view=100)
Another day, it must be another weapons…history, it can deter Kim Jong-il.

**Won’t go nuclear**
**Korea Herald 9** (“N.K. Nukes for Survival, Not War”, 2-14, Lexis)
North Korea is unlikely to use its nuclear weapons…that of the conservative South Korean government.

**No escalation** 
**Bandow 8** (Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Seoul Searching”, 11/11, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20218)
Moreover, the North’s one-time military…would unreservedly stand behind South Korea.
===No War=== 
**North Korea is too weak**
**AP 4-17** (Associated Press, “North Korean exiles say Kim Jong Un bluffing with talk of war”, 2013, http://www.foxnews.com/world/2013/04/17/north-korean-exiles-dismiss-talk-war-but-hint-at-nostalgia-amid-pain-living-in/)
"It's not even possible for North Korea to have…knows it would lose any fight. And lose badly.

**Diplomacy solves and prevents miscalc – most recent evidence proves**
**Choe 4-18** (Sang-hun, Fellow – Korean Studies Program at Stanford University and Winner – Pulitzer Prize, “North Korea Tones Down Language, Giving Hope for Dialogue”, New York Times, 2013, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/19/world/asia/north-korea-tension.html)
The United States and South Korea, meanwhile…is not as great as a few days ago.”

===AT: China Solves=== 
**Doesn’t solve**
**Schiavenzaapr 4-3** (Matt, “Can China Stop North Korea?”, The Atlantic, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/04/can-china-stop-north-korea/274626/)
That, precisely, is the point: China really, really…comfortable with China's dominant role in its economy,"

==<span class="Underline">Manufacturing</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Alt Causes</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Several alt causes that the aff doesn’t solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Reuters 7/2** (“U.S. manufacturing shrinks, 1st time in nearly 3 yrs,” pg online @ http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/07/02/usa-economy-idINDEE8610EU20120702 chm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Manufacturing will likely stay weak for the next…prices have begun to stabilize in most markets.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Alt causes—federal policy and congestion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hermann**, **11** (Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis</span>chm)
<span class="Underline">The job-creation potential of infrastructure investment is…nation will lose ground in a global economy.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Resilient</span>=== 
**Manufacturing is resilient --- several other factors matter more**
**Lind and Freeman 12** (Michael Lind, policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Joshua Freedman, program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” New America Foundation, April 2012, http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)
One sign of the revival of American manufacturing…cost competitive to invest in American manufacturing.

**Manufacturing industry empirically resilient**
**WSJ 11** (Wall Street Journal. 2/25/11. "The Truth About U.S. Manufacturing."online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703652104576122353274221570.html.html#articleTabs%3Darticle)
Is American manufacturing dead? You might…and medicine, and oil and natural-gas equipment.

===**SQ Solves**=== 
**Status quo solves --- natural gas outweighs their internal link**
**Lind and Freeman 12** (Michael Lind, policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Joshua Freedman, program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” New America Foundation, April 2012, http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)
Another factor in the revival of American…to increased economic output of $132.4 billion.

**Manufacturing in the US comparatively more attractive now – Chinese constraints are rising faster than ours**
**Lehner 11** (Vice President of the Progressive Farmer. 2011 “Reports of American Manufacturing's Death Are Exaggerated” http://www.dtnprogressivefarmer.com/dtnag/view/ag/printablePage.do?ID=BLOG_PRINTABLE_PAGE&bypassCache=true&pageLayout=v4&blogHandle=editorsnotebook&blogEntryId=8a82c0bc31d5e6e301336f3dd2381059&articleTitle=Reports+of+American+Manufacturing%27s+Death+Are+Exaggerated&editionName=DTNAgFreeSiteOnline)
Since 1972, America's manufacturing output more…little labor may be best manufactured in the U.S.

==<span class="Underline">Middle East War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Escalation</span>=== 
**No escalation — leaders check escalation**
**Cook, et. al., 7** — Hasib J. Sabbagh senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND, senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND, senior fellow in foreign policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution (Steven A., Ray Takeyh, and Suzanne Maloney, “Why the Iraq war won't engulf the Mideast”, International Herald Tribune, 6/28/07, http://www.cfr.org/iraq/why-iraq-war-wont-engulf-mideast/p13702)
Underlying this anxiety was a scenario in which…local conflicts from enveloping the entire Middle East.

==<span class="Underline">Navy</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Naval power is high now and there’s no deterrence scenario**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hoffman 08** (Frank G. Hoffman, Senior Fellow of the Foreign Policy Research Institute, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, http://www.cnas.org/node/529)</span>
<span class="Underline">One of the most important national security…the guarantor of the global commons. </span>

**Navy power is resilient and inevitable**
**Farley 07** (Robert Farley, assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, University of Kentucky, “The False Decline of the U.S. Navy,” The American Prospect, October 23, 2007, http://prospect.org/article/false-decline-us-navy)
Indeed, this is the situation that the United…the Royal Navy had friends in 1914 and 1941.
===<span class="Underline">AT: PACOM</span>=== 
**Reserves check mobility decline**
**Blair 02** (Dennis C. Blair, Admiral, United States Navy, Commander in Chief, United States Pacific Command, “Before the House International Relations Committee Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific and Subcommittee on Middle East and South Asia on U.S. Pacific Command Posture,” February 27, 2002, http://www.fas.org/asmp/resources/govern/107_hircBlair.htm, Sawyer)
In past conflicts, Reserve Component (RC) personnel…key element of this successful mobilization.

===AT: Seabasing=== 
**Doesn’t solve war fighting capability and causes allied backlash --- internal link turns their impact**
**Tangredi 11** (Sam J. Tangredi, retired US Navy captain, head of the Strategy and Concepts Branch of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and director of strategic planning and business development for the Navy International Programs Office, regional director of the planning consulting firm Strategic Insight Ltd, “Sea Basing,” Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, Vol. 64, No. 4)
Whether sea basing can replace land bases, or…future—sea basing would also seem a low priority.

==<span class="Underline">Nuclear Terrorism</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**Terrorism won’t go nuclear and they won’t be able to attack the US - several warrants**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mearsheimer 11**, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=3, </span>
<span class="Underline">The fact is that states have strong incentives to…deer, or by severe allergic reactions to peanuts.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**No technical capacity to steal, transport or build the bomb**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chapman, 8** (Steven, columnist and editorial writer for the Chicago Tribune, 2/8/2008, Who’s Still Afraid of Osama?, p. http://reason.com/news/show/124874.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ever since Sept. 11, 2001, Americans have…eventuality is one that will never happen.</span>

**Their evidence is alarmism — overstates strength of terrorists**
**Mueller and Stewart, 12** (John, Senior Research Scientist at the Mershon Center for International Security Studies, Adjunct Professor in the Department of Political Science, Ohio State University, Senior Fellow at Cato Institute, and Mark G., Australian Research Council Professorial Fellow, Professor and Director at the Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability at the University of Newcastle, “The Terrorism Delusion,” International Security, Volume 37, Issue 1, Summer 2012, pg. 81-110, Project Muse)
People such as Giuliani and a whole raft of “security…committed some serious, if small-scale, damage.

==<span class="Underline">Peak Oil</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**Oil is non-biotic in the mantle – ensures a continuous flow**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kutcherov 08**—researcher @ Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden (Vladimir G, “Theory of Abyssal Abiotic Petroleum Origin: Challenge for Petroleum Industry,” European Region Newsletter, June 2k8, Vol. 3, Accessed Online via University of Michigan Libraries, pdf, DA: 7/26/2012)</span>
<span class="Underline">The theory of abyssal non</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span class="Underline">biotic petroleum…of oils from different parts of the world. </span>

==<span class="Underline">Proliferation</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**No risk of breakout – fears of a tipping point are empirically overblown** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gavin, 10** — Tom Slick Professor of International Affairs and Director of the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law, Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, University of Texas at Austin (Francis, “Same As It Ever Was; Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the Cold War”, International Security, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Fears of a tipping point were especially acute in…potentially far more destabilizing effect of proliferation in</span>

<span class="Underline">**Countries won’t proliferate or it will be slow**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mueller, 7** — professor of political science at Ohio State University (John, “Radioactive Hype”, National Interest, September/October 2007)</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite the predictions of generations of alarmists…others on the Bush Administration's implicit hit list will.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Saudi Arabia</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Resilient</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Saudi Arabia is stable – it can withstand attacks, oil disruptions, and other dire predictions – empirics prove**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maugeri 12**—Research Fellow of the Geopolitics of Energy Project at the Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; former top manager of Eni, the largest Italian oil company; former Visiting Scholar @ MIT; International Counselor of CSIS; Senior Fellow of the Foreign Policy Association (Leonardo, “Oil: The Next Revolution,” Discussion Paper 2012-10, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, June 2k12, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Oil-%20The%20Next%20Revolution.pdf, DA: 7/20/2012//JLENART) </span>
<span class="Underline">Some may assign serious risks within Saudi…and capable to absorb challenges to its survival. </span>

==<span class="Underline">Science Diplomacy</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Fails</span>=== 
**Science diplomacy fails and increases the risk of conflict**
**Dickson 10** (David Dickson, Direction Science & Development Network , 6/28/10, “Science in diplomacy: ‘On tap but not on top’”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/2010/06/28/the-place-of-science-in-diplomacy-%E2%80%9Con-tap-but-not-on-top%E2%80%9D/)
The broadest gaps in understanding the potential of…agreements – but cannot provide the solutions to either.

===**Collapse Inevitable**=== 
**Structural barriers make science diplomacy impossible**
**Royal Society, 10** – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]
In all forms of science diplomacy, it is important…areas to help rebuild trust between nations.

===**Inevitable**=== 
**Science diplomacy and exchange is high and sustainable – specifically the US and Australia – Australia’s key and solves**
**Sackett 10** (Professor Penny Sackett, former Chief Scientist for Australia, Ph.D., theoretical physics, “Science Diplomacy: Collaboration for Solutions,” August 10, 2010, Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/, Sawyer)
Many countries have recognised the value of science…the Orient, a powerful role in world diplomacy.

==<span class="Underline">Smallpox</span>== 
**Smallpox unlikely**
**Moodie 1** (Michael, President – Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute, FDCH, 11-7, Lexis)
An example of this kind of vulnerability…be of interest and concern to a decision maker?

==<span class="Underline">Space Colonization</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Impact Framing</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Short-term existential risks outweigh and turn the aff – they destroy our ability to colonize space. Earth will remain habitable for a billion years.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Baum 10** – visiting scholar at Columbia University's Center for Research on Environmental Decisions, PhD candidate in Geography, and focuses on risk analysis (2/12/2010, Seth, “Is Humanity Doomed? Insights from Astrobiology”, Sustainability Journal, http://ideas.repec.org/a/gam/jsusta/v2y2010i2p591-603d7141.html) MGM</span>
<span class="Underline">The fact that the universe will remain habitable…eye towards eventual space colonization. </span>

===<span class="Underline">Colonization Fails</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Colonization fails—**</span>
<span class="Underline">**1) Medical dangers, high launch costs, and technological barriers**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Egan and Kreso 11** – (2011, Michael Egan and John Kreso, thesis paper submitted in fulfillment of a BS degree at WPI, advised by Professor Mayer Humi, Mathematical Sciences, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, “Expediting Factors in Developing a Successful Space Colony,” http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-041911-134845/unrestricted/IQP_Final.pdf DH) </span>
<span class="Underline">Currently, it is still not technologically feasible to…would not be able to sustain human life. </span>

<span class="Underline">**2) Cosmic rays create genetic mutations and damage the body**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Heppenheimer** **07** (a major space advocate and researcher in planetary science, aerospace engineering, and celestial mechanics. His books are on the recommended reading list of the National Space Society.) “Colonies in Space – National Space society” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ColoniesInSpace/colonies_chap12.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">When the sun is quiet, it emits a…bonds and do much greater damage.</span>
==<span class="Underline">State Budgets</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Recovering Now</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**State budgets are recovering now and are expected to grow in the next fiscal year.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sigritz, 12** (Brian, “State Budgets in 2011 and 2012: Recovery Begins for States, but Fiscal Conditions Remain Below Pre-Recession Levels,” Knowledge Center, July 3rd, 2012, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-budgets-2011-and-2012-recovery-begins-states-fiscal-conditions-remain-below-pre-rece-1) </span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal conditions began to improve for states…liabilities including pensions and retiree health care costs</span>

<span class="Underline">**No cuts – states recovering now, and new sources of income offset budget cuts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Oliff, 12** – Part of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (Phil, “State Budgets: Improving, But a Long Recovery Ahead”, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, 5/27/12, http://galesburgplanet.com/posts/14622) </span>
<span class="Underline">States still face a long and uncertain recovery, according…some of the cuts that they’ve already made.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Steel Industry</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">TI Not Key</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transport’s not key to steel --- inevitable collapse because of retiring costs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rockefeller, 02** – United States Senator (John, “Floor Statement: Introduction of the Steel Industry Consolidation and Retiree Benefits Protection Act of 2002”, Rockefeller for Senate, 02/08/02, http://www.rockefeller.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/floor-statements?ID=55f9d9a1-7535-4ac9-9bca-bad839afb5f1)/</span>
<span class="Underline">Mr. President, the American steel industry…by supporting companies’ retiree health care costs. </span>

===<span class="Underline">AT: Military Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Steel’s not key to the military and mini-mills make industry collapse inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Griswold, 99** - Associate Director, Center for Trade Policy Studies, CATO Institute (Daniel, “Counting the Costs of Steel Protection”, CATO Institute, February 1999, http://www.freetrade.org/node/356) </span>
<span class="Underline">The big steel companies and their unions point to…three decades of government import protection. </span>


==<span class="Underline">Trade</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin Mayer and Thoenig, 08** [MARTIN, MAYER, AND THOENIG 2008 (Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75)</span>
<span class="Underline">Does globalization pacify international relations? The…increase in the number of sovereign states.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Warming</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">General</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Here are a dozen unbelievable qualified people who think warming is a joke**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Allegre, et. al., 12** (Claude Allegre, former director of the Institute for the Study of the Earth at the University of Paris, J. Scott Armstrong, cofounder of the Journal of Forecasting and the International Journal of Forecasting, Jan Breslow, head of the Laboratory of Biochemical Genetics and Metabolism at Rockefeller University, Roger Cohen, fellow with the American Physical Society, Edward David, member of the National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Sciences, William Happer, professor of physics at Princeton, Michael Kelly, professor of technology at the University of Cambridge, William Kininmonth, former head of climate research at the Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Richard Lindzen, professor of atmospheric sciences at MIT, James McGrath, professor of chemistry at Virginia Tech, Rodney Nichols, former president of the New York Academy of Sciences, Burt Rutan, aerospace engineer who designed Voyager and SpaceShipOne, Harrison H. Schmitt, Apollo 17 astronaut and former U.S. senator, Nir Shaviv, professor of astrophysics at Hebrew University, Henk Tennekes, former director of the Royal Dutch Meteorological Service, and Antonio Zichichi, president of the World Federation of Scientists, “No Need to Panic About Global Warming”, Wall Street Journal, 1/26/2012, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204301404577171531838421366.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">A candidate for public office in any contemporary…but untenable claims of "incontrovertible" evidence.</span>

**No warming impact: not real, predictions fail, CO2’s not key, and alt causes**
**Lean 4-5** (Geoffrey, Environmental Correspondent – Daily Telegraph, “Global warming: time to rein back on doom and gloom?”, Daily Telegraph, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/environment/globalwarming/9974397/Global-warming-time-to-rein-back-on-doom-and-gloom.html)
All right, I accept that this Arctic April may…to do much more to control carbon dioxide.


===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Mars proves—solar changes are inevitable and cause more warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**National Post, 2007** (Lawrence Solomon, staff writer, February 7, “Look to Mars for the Truth on Globl Warming” http://www.nationalpost.com/story.html?id=edae9952-3c3e-47ba-913f-7359a5c7f723&k=0/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Climate change is a much, much bigger…atmosphere only to give the absorbed heat away." </span>

<span class="Underline">**Developing countries make CO2 reduction impossible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Koetzle, 8** (William, Ph.D. and Senior Vice President of Public Policy at the Institute for Energy Research, 4/13/2008, “IER Rebuttal to Boucher White Paper”, http://www.instituteforenergyresearch.org/2008/04/13/ier-rebuttal-to-boucher-white-paper/)</span>
<span class="Underline">For example, if the United States were to unilaterally…extent mirrored by all significant emitting nations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**You can’t solve warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NPR, 9** (National Public Radio, “Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says”, All Things Considered, 1/26/2009, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)</span>
<span class="Underline">Climate change is essentially irreversible, according…effect in terms of sea level rise and drought. </span>

**Natural variability explains warming trends**
**Idso, 12** (Craig, Sherwood, and Keith, director of envt science – Peabody Energy, PhD Geography – ASU, Idso, professor – Maricopa County Community College, and Idso, PhD botany – ASU, “Northern Scandinavian Temperatures: It's a Whole New Ball Game,” CO2 Science Vol. 15, No. 30, July)
In a game-changing paper published in the…of orbital configurations" cited by Esper et al. (2012).

**Especially solar system dynamics**
**Scafetta, 10** (Nicola, professor of physics – Duke, works at the Active Cavity Radiometer Irradiance Monitor Lab – Coronado, CA, “Empirical evidence for a celestial origin of the climate oscillations and its implications,” Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics Vol. 72, No. 13, p. 951–970)
On secular, millenarian and larger time scales astronomical…2001; Kerr, 2001; Eichler et al., 2009; Scafetta, 2010].


===<span class="Underline">No Extinction</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**3 periods of rapid warming show no extinctions – models are flawed guesswork**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NIPCC 11** (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, “2011 Interim Report from the Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change,” http://nipccreport.org/reports/2011/2011report.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The first period they examined was the Eocene…more than guesswork (see also Chapman, 2010).</span>

**Warming won’t cause extinction**
**Barrett 07** (Scott, professor of natural resource economics, Columbia University “Why Cooperate? The Incentive to Supply Global Public Goods”, introduction)
First, climate change does not threaten the…have done much more about it by now.

===<span class="Underline">No Warming</span>=== 
**No warming — newest data**
**Rose, 10/13/12** — correspondent for the Daily Mail (David, “Global warming stopped 16 years ago, reveals Met Office report quietly released... and here is the chart to prove it”, Daily Mail, 10/13/12, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2217286/Global-warming-stopped-16-years-ago-reveals-Met-Office-report-quietly-released--chart-prove-it.html)
The world stopped getting warmer almost 16 years…up significantly warmer than the previous two.

===<span class="Underline">Slow</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Best studies show warming is slow now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Science Daily 8** (“Will Global Warming Take A Short Break? Improved Climate Predictions Suggest A Reduced Warming Trend During The Next 10 Years”, 5-5, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2008/05/080502113749.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">To date climate change projections, as published…weaken slightly during the following 10 years.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Warming is slowing – no catastrophic impacts** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Hansen 00** (James, et al, Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences – Columbia University, “Global Warming in the Twenty-First Century: An Alternative Scenario”, 8-29, http://www.pnas.org/content/97/18/9875.full)</span>
<span class="Underline">A common view is that the current global…long-term global monitoring of aerosol properties.</span>

=<span class="Underline">Other</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">Risk Assessment</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Short Timeframe First</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Privilege short-timeframe impacts – Probability — Long timeframes decrease it — the more distant the prediction, the more likely it is to be wrong** </span>
<span class="Underline">**POSNER 2004** (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 17)</span>
<span class="Underline">A compelling reason for not giving a great deal of…possible, maybe even likely, on that timescale.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Yes War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC Yes War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Prefer the newest evidence — recent studies indict their authors and show war is still highly likely**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Contreras, 2/1/12** (Dominic, fellow at Harvard Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, citing Monica Duffy Toft, associate professor of public policy at the Kennedy School of Political Science at Harvard and director of the Belfer Center’s Initiative on Religion in International Affairs, citing Stephen M. Walt, the Robert and Renee Belfer professor of international affairs and faculty chair of the Belfer Center’s International Security Program, February 1, 2012, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, “Winning the War on War?," http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21707/winning_the_war_on_war.html?breadcrumb=%2Fproject%2F52%2Fintrastate_conflict_program) </span>
<span class="Underline">Toft, an associate professor of public policy at…as a rational and preferred option.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Plus, a litany of other warrants support this — we’ll outcard them here —** </span>

<span class="Underline">**A) Nationalism, economics, and security**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mearsheimer, 99** — professor of political science at the University of Chicago (John J., 1999, http://www.ciaonet.org.www2.lib.ku.edu:2048/conf/cfr10/cfr10.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Now I think the central claim that’s on the…reasons to go to war against other great powers.</span>

<span class="Underline">**B) Deterrence failure** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Krieger, 9** – professor of politics (David, “Still loving the Bomb After All these Years”, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, 9/4/2009, https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger)</span>
<span class="Underline">Tepperman builds upon Waltz’s logic, and concludes…are more rational than Mr. Tepperman?</span>

<span class="Underline">**C) Experts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mearsheimer, 99** — professor of political science at the University of Chicago (John J., 1999, http://www.ciaonet.org.www2.lib.ku.edu:2048/conf/cfr10/cfr10.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">My third and final point here is, the fact…be a real competition to fill that.</span>

<span class="Underline">**D) Nationalism and ideology**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kagan 7** (Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span>
<span class="Underline">When the cold war ended, it was possible…since then, America’s responsibility has not. </span>

===2NC Impact Calculus=== 
<span class="Underline">**Great power war is the most likely impact**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ferguson, 8** (Niall, senior fellow at the Hoover Institute and professor of history at Harvard, Hoover Digest, no. 1, pg. 47-53, Winter 2008)</span>
<span class="Underline">The risk of a major geopolitical crisis in…trumped economics. It often does. </span>

**Even if it doesn’t cause extinction, great power wars kill billions in the short term which outweighs on timeframe**
**Cohen, 99** (Eliot, professor of international studies at John Hopkins, Survival, Vol. 41, No. 2., Summer, Lexis)
There have been plenty of wars that…be obsolete, major war endures.

**Studies prove a decrease in frequency increases their lethality**
**Bradford, 1** (William C., fellow at Harvard Law School, American University International Law Review, lexis)
A cursory examination of the international…on the rise nor the decline."

**Critical framing distinction — if we win a single argument it takes out all their defense because it proves that war is still possible**
**Kagan, 99** (Donald, professor of history at Yale, Survival, Vol. 41, No. 2, Summer 1999, lexis)
Now having said all this, even if all…me that his entire thesis is undermined.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Regional Escalation</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**They draw in major powers**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sachs 8** (Jeffrey D., July 2, pg. http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18682)</span>
<span class="Underline">The continuation of extreme poverty, and the…of late, and even to war, as in Darfur.</span>