= = 
[[toc]]
=Round Two vs. Kinkaid RT--JARC= 
==Fiscal Cliff DA== 
Will pass but it’s not inevitable – no delay means an agreement has to happen now
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Hill 11-16</span> (“Tim Geithner: 'Fiscal cliff' deal is 'doable within several weeks'.” http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/budget/268543-geithner-fiscal-cliff-deal-is-doable-within-several-weeks)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Treasury Secretary Tim </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Geithner said</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Friday that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> so I'll be able to go off and do some other things," Geithner said.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Plan drains Presidential capital. Even once-popular transportation issues now hurt the White House. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Freemark 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">President Obama barely mentions the need ..... of the current law or </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">a </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">bipartisan</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> bargain that fails to do much more than replicate</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">existing law,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>


Sequestration destroys US global military power---triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war(Iranian adventurism, Hormuz closing, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, Russian military modernization, Afghanistan instability, naval power)
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunter 9/30</span> Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Over the next 10 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because of sequestration, the ..... stand ready to defend our interests against any threat.</span>
==Speaking for Others K== 
Politicizing those in poverty is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment butinherently ends up utilizingdescriptions of poverty to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.
Linda Martín <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Department of Philosophy at SyracuseUniversity.<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1992, </span>Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Feminist discourse is not the only site in which the ..... no easy solution to the problem of speaking for others can be found by simply restricting the practice to speaking for groups of which one is a member.</span>


The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.
Linda <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1995</span>, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is partly the case because of what has been called the "crisis of representation." ..... of individual doubt, we are denying a reality of our experiential lives.9</span>

The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.
Patricia <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Williams</span>, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1987</span> University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> There are certain societies that define the limits **.....**</span><span class="Emphasis2">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> before it wipes out what precious little humanity we have left.</span>**</span>

Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.
Michel <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Foucaultand</span> Gilles <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1972</span> Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">FOUCAULT: It seems to me that the political involvement ..... penal system is the form in which power is most obviously seen as power?...</span>

==T== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation- Transportation infrastructure are these 9 topic areas</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">White House 11</span>**THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The American Job Act: President Obama’s Plan To Create Jobs Now </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> BK</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The term `transportation infrastructure project' means</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the construction, alteration, or repair, including the facilitation of intermodal transit, of the following subsectors:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(i) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Highway or road</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (ii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Bridge</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (iii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Mass transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (iv) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Inland waterways</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (v) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Commercial ports</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (vi) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Airports</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (vii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Air traffic control systems</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (viii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Passenger rail</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, including high-speed rail</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (ix) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Freight rail systems</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

B. Violation- JARC funds carpool programs, bike racks, data collection, car loans, and vouchers for low-income families, and vehicles
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">OklaDOT</span>Oklahoma Department of Transportation<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> No Date</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">, (“Public Transportation: Job Access and Reverse Commute Section 5316,”</span>[[http://www.okladot.state.ok.us/transit/s5316.htm|__http://www.okladot.state.ok.us/transit/s5316.htm__]]<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Job Access and Reverse Commute (Section 5316) </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Federal transit l..... among public transportation providers and other human service agencies providing transportation.</span>

Social infrastructure is __categorically distinct__ and __unlimits__
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fourie 6</span> (Johan, Chief Operating Officer – ArcelorMittal South Africa, “Economic Infrastructure: A Review of Definitions, Theory, and Empirics”, South African Journal of Economics, 74(3), September, Wiley Online Library)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Economic and social infrastructure</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Botheconomists ..... parks, fountains and statues</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">All of these institutions entail capital goods that have some public use.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Vehiclesare distinct from transportation infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">CFST 06 – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)//RD</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Transportation or transport is the carrying of.....of the whole transport system including traffic lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.</span>




==Commissions CP== 
Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States as a part of its first biennial transportation review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from substantive r.....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>

Commissions avoid politics – seen as bipartisan.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)Throughout American history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Congress has .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to take difficult decisions out of the hands of Congress, and are mostly ignored when they report their findings and recommendations. </span>


=Round Four vs. Coppell BM--Guam= 

==Fiscal Cliff DA (Round Two)== 

==NMS CP== 

**Text: The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a National Military Strategy, and corresponding National Security Strategy and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan that prioritizes substantially increasing investment in transportation infrastructure in Guam****as necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States.**

**The counterplan shapes policy**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 29.3333px;">Meinhart, 8</span> — Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College (Dr. Richard M., “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To meet these challenges, the military strategy again **__.....__**</span> **__so important in today’s volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous global security environment__****.**


**NMS causes the plan to be enacted as __a result__ of the CP**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 29.3333px;">Riley, 94</span> — Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army (Don T., “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4/18/1994, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Should not </span>**__theN__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ational </span>**__M__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ilitary </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">trategy </span>**__provide__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> this </span>**__.....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> planning, and programming for the military 20 years from now begins today.</span>

**The net benefit is CMR**
<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Ackerman, 8</span> — Senior Correspondent at American Prospect and Former Associate Editor at New Republic (Spencer, “Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible”, Washington Independent, 11/13/2008, http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The meeting offered a test for a relationship that might .....That’s not something you want to do in a time of war, which most of the nation has forgotten.” </span>


**Global nuclear war**
**Cohen, 2k —** Professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies and the director of the Strategic Studies department at Johns Hopkins, worked for the Department of Defense, taught at the U.S. Naval War College (Eliot A., “Why the Gap Matters - Gap Between Military and Civilian World”, National Interest, Fall 2000, [[http://www.24hourscholar.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_2000_Fall/ai_65576871/pg_4?pi=scl]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the same time, a political elite generally ignorant of ..... cardinal purposes of the federal government: “to provide for the common defense” in a world in which security cannot be taken for granted.</span>

==T== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Violation – Infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__ – it excludes the military</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Fourie 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">One way to define infrastructure is to describe .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> infrastructure capital, while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating __private economic activity__</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Musick, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">and</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> cleanup operations (such as those conducted by </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">the Army Corps of Engineers</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>



==Guam Adv CP== 
Text:
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States federal government should promote co-location of Japanese and United States bases within Okinawa. The United States federal government should allow local Japanese governments to conduct environmental inspections of American military bases. The United States federal government should relocate the same number of troops the plan relocates to Tinian.</span>**

That solves relations
Cronin et al 10
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security. (Patrick, “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, October, http://cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States should take additional measures ..... boosting local economic growth and creating jobs.78</span>


Guam can’t sustain marines- Tinian provides alternate space
EIS 10
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Final EIS, “Guam and CNMI Military Relocation”, July 2012, pg online @ http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_3/Vol_03_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf)</span>
**__Training operations proposed on .....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> according to Mission Essential Task List, as designated by appropriate ¶ commanders</span>

Guam doesn’t have enough training space- plan can’t solve operational readiness
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kan 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Shirley A. Kan is a specialist in Asian Security affairs, “Guam: US Defense Deployments”, March 29 2012, Congressional Research Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tinian. The study also found that </span>**__Guam .....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> personnel to establish and ¶ operate an Air and Missile Defense Task Force (AMDTF). </span>


=Round Six vs. C.E. Byrd GN--Disabilities= 


==Fiscal Cliff DA (Round Two)== 

==Fem K== 
Failure to prioritize gender in your thinking about disabilities leads to the perpetuation of discrimination and violence against women. Your attempt to engage in a communicative process through assistance is short-circuited by the fact women will never get the assistance or have their voices heard. The continuation of this exclusion of women justifies legal and social regulation of the feminine culminating in forced sterilization campaigns
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Price, 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Janet, PhD works with Association for Women’s Rights in Development, The seeds of a movement – disabled women and their struggle to organize, [[http://www.awid.org/content/.../file/CTW_SeedsofaMovement_ENG.pdf|www.awid.org/content/.../file/CTW_SeedsofaMovement_ENG.pdf]]</span> [9/29/11]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since the 1970s, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">disabled peoples</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in differing global locations have </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">.....</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">for instance, the majority of the senior officers in disabled people’s organizations are male</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

Masculinity as the foundation of the nation-state makes all warfare inevitable as the roles in warfare and post-conflict management are self-perpetuating in order for the fraternal community to sustain itself
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Handrahan, 2K1</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lori M., International Centre of Gender Studies, Oxford, Conflict, Gender, Ethnicity and Post-Conflict Reconstruction, //Security Dialogue// 35.4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Benedict Anderson, the well-known academic expert on identity, **__.....__**</span> **__virtue’ is unsustainable without war__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Benton, 1998: 43). </span>**__War makes the man__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


The alternative to reject gendered discourse, In questioning the masculine conceptions of the 1AC we are able to embrace a feminist ethic that challenges the inequalities and violence of the status quo
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Moghadam 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Valentine, feminist scholar and author, “Violence and Terrorism: Feminist Observations on Islamist Movements, State, and the International System” Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Our world desperately needs new economic ..... An important proposal is the institutionalization of peace education.</span>

==T--TI Investment== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset, but not for minor remodeling</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">DOE, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – US department of Education (“Clarifying Guidance on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Section 1512 Quarterly Reporting”, American Recovery and reinvestment Act, www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/.../guidance-1512-quarterly-reporting.doc)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">For the purposes of Section 1512 reporting, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> at all levels, and society as a whole.’ However, //<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">an infrastructure investment does not include “minor remodeling</span>//” as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 77.1(c). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Lemer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">What has been neglected in all of the ..... who manage maintenance in public works agencies suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect. </span>



==FW== 
They violate three sets of words
First --__Resolved” means the Aff has to have a plan – they don’t__

<span style="font-size: 16px;">American Heritage 2000</span>

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">To reach a decision</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or make a determination:</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">resolve on a course of action</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>
Second – “__Should” indicates obligation__

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Compact Oxford English Dictionary ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> (http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/should?view=uk)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">should • modal verb (3rd sing. should) 1 </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12px;">used to indicate obligation, duty</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, or correctness. </span>

Third – USFG

The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing ‘2K</span>
[[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]
Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… <span class="underline">If the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief</span>and <span class="underline">the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence</span>, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

The question posed by the resolution is about the desirability of USFG action
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cambridge Dictionary of American English ‘00</span>
Should means “<span class="underline">used to express that it is</span>necessary, <span class="underline">desirable</span>, and advisable, or important <span class="underline">to perform the action of the following verb.” </span>

The USFG is the government in Washington D.C.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Microsoft Online Encyclopedia ‘2K</span> [http://encarta.msn.com]

<span class="underline">“The federal government of the United States is centered in Washington DC.</span>

First – Better for clash.
Their blueprint makes it difficult for the neg to say anything competitive with the aff. Clash is key to critical testing of claims in debate and an educational experience.

Second –Better for preparation.
They incentivize a disconnect from topic literature and open up an infinity of philosophical speculation. It is hard for their opponents to be prepared to debate, which hurts education and leads to unfair competition. Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Limits are key to productive discourse</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Shively ‘2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “//Partisan Politics and Political Theory”//, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This means, first, that they must recognize the role ..... In other words, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">contestation rests on </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">some </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">basic agreement </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">or harmony.</span>


Embracing anti-politics turns their project and cedes politics to the right.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boggs ’97</span>(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The false sense of empowerment that comes with such ..... collec- tive</span><span class="underline">interests that had vanished from civil society.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">75 </span>
( ) Moving away from anti-politics is vital to check extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Small ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition,“Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And .....we are stalled. Service learning may be our best chance to jumpstart our democracy. In the rest of this paper, we will look at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span>


==ADA CP== 
Text: The 50 state supreme courts and relevant local courts should rule that the ADA is required toincrease investment in transportation infrastructure to make it more accessible.

Without judicial precedent any legislation will be rolled back
**<span style="color: #222222;">Bagenstos, '3</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> – </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12px;">Professor of Law at the University of Michigan (Samuel, “The Americans with Disabilities Act as Welfare Reform,” William and Mary Law Review, Vol. 44, Issue 3, Article 3.) //JS//</span>
//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">When Congress enacted the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in 1990, disability rights supporters hailed the law as a radical shift in our nation's policy toward people with disabilities. Ten years later, however, the statute's impact-at least in the employment area-seems anything but radical.</span>**__<span style="color: #222222;">ADA plaintiffs are among ..... the Act in a manner that is in accord with the courts'</span>__**//**__<span style="color: #222222;">own</span>__//****__<span style="color: #222222;">values or beliefs.</span>__**





=Round Seven vs. OPRF MM--Relational Planning= 

==Fiscal Cliff DA (Round Two)== 

==Commissions CP (Round Two)== 

==FW (Round Six)== 


==K== 
The Introna card from the 1AC proclaims transhumanism as a moral imperative, but such an imperative to seek immortality destroys our way of being
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 15.3333px;">Thiele ’95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, __Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics__, pg 179-180]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-size: 15.3333px;">The world is the web of our social and cultural .....</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> everywhere is to experience the freedom that allows our disclosure of the Being of our world. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">the alternative is to do nothing because only doing nothing refrains from concealing alternative ways of being as the aff does with its cyborg rhetoric in the Introna card</span>

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Harman in 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Graham, Professor of Philosophy @ American University in Cairo, “Cambridge Journal of Economics”, 2009, Vol. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">34(1), __Technology, objects and things in Heidegger__ p.17-25) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Another word in Heidegger's</span>__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> constellation of __.....__</span>__<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;"> without degenerating into a mere wish to know’</span>__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Heidegger, 1994, pp. 71–2).</span>

==USFG PIC== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Text: Theo and I should </span>**substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment in the United States with relational planning.

<span class="Heading4Char">We must not cede our agency to the all-powerful, righteous state. This traps us in the cycle of in-activism, never allowing us to kritik or confront the state that dominates us, and the other.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> Shaffer 2007 </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">(Butler teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars. “Identifying With the State” June 29th 2007.</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/shaffer159.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">)</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">One of the deadliest practices we engage in is that of identifying .....</span>__****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">without division and conflict –</span>****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">to a centered, self-directed integrity in our lives.</span>__**


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The power of the state commands all and claims legitimacy for all within its domain. The power of the sovereign robs us of our agency and makes true change impossible, because all political discussion is then understood post a preexisting state centered structure we automatically must follow. Voting Negative is key, we must present a challenge to this imposed discursive pre-condition and an intensive rethinking of how we engage in such political dialogue is needed.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Wadiwelin02 Dinesh Joseph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But such </span>__a political program has far reaching consequences__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, both for Western sovereignty, and the way that the business of politics is conducted. </span>__The living population of the earth has inherited a vision of sovereign power,//which has spread cancerously// into__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">even the most seemingly inaccessible aspects of everyday </span>__life__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This vision commands all, claims legitimacy for all, and determines the conduct of living for all within its domain. </span>__Politics__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ‘as we know it’ is </span>__caught inextricably in the web of sovereign power__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in such a way that it seems that modern political debate </span>__cannot help but circulate__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> around the same, routine </span>__issues: "What is the appropriate legislative response?"; "Is it within the State’s powers to intervene in this particular conflict?"; "How can we ensure the citizen’s rights are maintained in the face of the state?".To challenge such an encompassing and peremptory political discourse — where every question implies the sovereign absolutely, and every decision made refers to life itself — would require the most intensive rethinking of the way in which territory, governance and economy are imagined__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In this sense, whilst Agamben’s analysis of bare life, and Foucault’s theory of bio-power, provide a means by which to assess the condition of non-human life with respect to sovereign power, the political project must reach beyond these terms, and embrace an intertwining of the human and the non-human: an intersection which may be found in the animal life shared by both entities</span>