=Round 2 vs. Blue Valley West BH--HTF/Gas Tax= 
[[toc]]
==Elections DA== 

Obama will beat Mitt Romney handily – polls, Ryan pick
Bouie 8-15 (Jamelle, writer at the American Prospect. “Here’s why Romney pounced on Biden's "chains" gaffe: He’s losing.” Washington Post.[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/heres-why-romney-pounced-on-bidens-chains-gaffe-hes-losing/2012/08/15/bb8a4b6c-e6f6-11e1-9739-eef99c5fb285_blog.html]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Because </span><span class="TitleChar">Mitt Romney is losing.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="TitleChar"> .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If Romney stays on this path, he’ll lose.</span>

The plan is unpopular
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]
__Americans understood this once upon a .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
Traub 12 (James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded .....</span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Economic decline causes war and miscalculation – post collapse is different than the Status quo so their no war defense doesn’t apply
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>economic ....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

==Warming CP== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should fertilize the North Pacific and Southern Oceans with ferrous sulphate.**

**CP solves CO2**
**Parry, 7/18/12** – LiveScience senior staff writer (Wynne, July 18, 2012, “Could Fertilizing the Oceans Reduce Global Warming?,” http://www.livescience.com/21684-geoengineering-iron-fertilization-climate.html, Hensel)
__Some hope fertilizing tiny, floating plants .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nearly all of it made up of glass-walled diatoms — sank below, 3,280 feet (1,000 m).</span>



==T--Investment== 




Interpretation – the plan and only the plan is the focal point of topicality. On face, the plan must exclusively increase transportation infrastructure investment.



This Investment must be capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital

**CBO, 9** – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this analysis, </span>investment in infrastructure is defined .....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>



And only __direct__ investments constitute capital spending

**Gramlich 98** – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">former professor of economics at the University of Michigan and a former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Edward, Before the President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting, Washington, D.C., 3/6/98, http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/speeches/1998/19980306.htm)//EM</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Apart from politics, </span>__how in principle should .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> But there will be major headaches involved in identifying this small amount of spending.</span>


==QTR CP== 



Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to increase investment in the Highway Trust Fund for use on transportation infrastructure in the United States.



Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates

Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)

"Policy statements"//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//from substantive rules that carry<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the "</span>force of law<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," </span>because//they// //<span style="font-size: 16px;">lack "present binding effect</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on the agency</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. When an agency hears a case under an established policy statement, ....Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>



CP solves the aff – changes future budget decisions.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tollefson -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jeff Tollefson, DOE releases first Quadrennial Technology Review, September 27, 2011, http://blogs.nature.com/news/2011/09/doe_releases_first_quadrennial_1.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US Department of Energy (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">DOE) released its</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> inaugural </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">policy analysis and, most intriguingly, social sciences.</span>



Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it

James <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunnicutt 99,</span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Depending on whether a rule is adopted with or without notice-and-comment process, .....</span> or<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> they </span>have//already fought//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the rule</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in court </span>and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> have</span>//given up//on<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>appeals<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> process.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> n156</span>


==<span style="font-size: 17px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Warming CP</span>

=<span style="font-size: 17px;">Round 4 vs. Dowling SL--Alaskan Ports</span>= 


==Elections DA== 

1. Obama will beat Mitt Romney handily – polls, Ryan pick

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Bouie 8-15</span> (Jamelle, writer at the American Prospect. “Here’s why Romney pounced on Biden's "chains" gaffe: He’s losing.” Washington Post.[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/heres-why-romney-pounced-on-bidens-chains-gaffe-hes-losing/2012/08/15/bb8a4b6c-e6f6-11e1-9739-eef99c5fb285_blog.html]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Because </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Mitt Romney is losing.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> “If the election were held today,”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ..... with the Ryan pick, the status quo hasn’t. If Romney stays on this path, he’ll lose.</span>


Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay – people will definitely perceive spending in the Arctic, it’s a massive issue

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]

__Americans understood this once upon a time, .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> have been unable to get through Congress.</span>





3. Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Traub 12 </span>(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded realists as against .....</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>



4. Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure

Oliver <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>







==T--In== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation - “In” means “throughout”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Words and Phrases 8</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout”</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>





==NMS CP== 

**Text: The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a National Military Strategy and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan that prioritizes investment in deepwater port transportation infrastructure in Alaska****as necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States.**



**The counterplan shapes policy**

<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Meinhart, 8</span> — Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College (Dr. Richard M., “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To meet these challenges, the military strategy again **__.....__**</span> **__uncertain, complex and ambiguous global security environment__****.**





**NMS causes the plan to be enacted as __a result__ of the CP**

<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Riley, 94</span> — Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army (Don T., “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4/18/1994, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Should not </span>**__theN__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ational </span>**__M__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ilitary </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">trategy </span>**__provide__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> this </span>**__"strategic pull'__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? ..... 20 years from now begins today.</span>



**The net benefit is CMR**

<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Ackerman, 8</span> — Senior Correspondent at American Prospect and Former Associate Editor at New Republic (Spencer, “Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible”, Washington Independent, 11/13/2008, http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible)



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The meeting offered a test for a relationship that might help define ..... That’s not something you want to do in a time of war, which most of the nation has forgotten.” </span>





**Global nuclear war**

**Cohen, 2k —** Professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies and the director of the Strategic Studies department at Johns Hopkins, worked for the Department of Defense, taught at the U.S. Naval War College (Eliot A., “Why the Gap Matters - Gap Between Military and Civilian World”, National Interest, Fall 2000, [[http://www.24hourscholar.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_2000_Fall/ai_65576871/pg_4?pi=scl]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the same time, a political elite generally ignorant of military ..... federal government: “to provide for the common defense” in a world in which security cannot be taken for granted.</span>





==Virillio K== 



**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Demands forthe speed of transportation infrastructure leads to a ceding of politics away from human decisionmaking</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Paul __Virilio 2006__</span>**The Information Bomb (Radical Thinkers). Verso.



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">A slow and measured democracy, locally situated, in thestyle __.....__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> __which is another, less elevated name forwhat we currently term 'interaction'.__</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">The automation of war will lead to the accidental war </span>

Paul <span style="font-size: 16px;">Virilio</span>, director of the EcoleSpecialed’Architecture in Paris, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>, A landscape of events P. 93



In this dire perspective, <span class="underline">compulsory automation ..... between war and peace fly through our fingers.</span>









**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">The alt is to reject the affirmative's destruction of politics to reinvent a political relationship to speed</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Paul __Virilioand__Chris__Dercon__2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Ottawa','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">Virilio Live</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">:selectedinter</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">views</span><span style="font-family: 'Ottawa','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">""SPEED-SPACE Interview with Chris Dercon" ", Sage Publications.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Dutch801RmBT','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It’s important to return to the city. To return to the city is to return to politics .....There’s a logic there, and it’s a logic which poses problems.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 17px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;"> NMS CP</span>

=<span style="font-size: 17px;">Round 6 vs. Copell DE--Natives</span>= 


==NEPA CP== 

The Department of Transportation should submitIncreasing transportation infrastructure investment in Indian Countryfor a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.




It severs should

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Summers 94</span> (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the..... thatwill or would become effective in </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the future</span>////<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [in futurol</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">106 U.S. 360</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>


It severs substantial

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Words and Phrases 1925</span>
Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 7, p. 6738

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The words</span> “outward, open, actual, visible, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.....</span>opposed to inclusive. Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.

The counterplan solves – the //__process__// of evaluating environmentally friendly alternatives //__prior__// to action leads to a compromise that solves the aff and avoids environmental harm

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dreher 5</span> - Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf

<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">Yet </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">a</span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">nother </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">criticism of</span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">NEPA</span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;"> review process </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">is that it ..... appeals that plague controversial timber sales</span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">.” 56</span>


==T--In== 

A. Interpretation - “In” means within the limits of

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Webster’s 6</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06 ([[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Main Entry: 1in Pronunciation: 'in, &n, &n Function: preposition Etymology: Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German in in, Latin in, Greek en 1 a -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">used</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> as a function word </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to indicate inclusion, location, or position within limits</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><in the lake><wounded in the leg><in the summer></span>


**<span style="color: #222222;">‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership</span>**

**<span style="color: #222222;">Glossary of English Grammar Terms 5 </span>**

<span style="color: #222222;">(</span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">Mine, yours, his, hers,</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">its</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">, ours, theirs</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">are</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">the</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">possessive pronounsused to</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">substitute anoun</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and to</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">show</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">possession or</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">ownership</span>____<span style="color: #222222;">.</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9.33333px;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>




==Elections DA== 

Obama Good, China Relations solve Warming (Round Two)

Global Warming affects vulnerable communities more than others – especially Native Americans

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sierra Club 8 </span>(Sierra Club, “America's largest and most influential grassroots environmental organization,” 07/08, www.sierraclub.org/ej/downloads/gw-ej-2008.pdf , “Global Warming and environmental Justice: The Burden on Vulnerable Populations,” AM)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increased heat waves, floods, drought, and air pollution</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> ..... 95 days by the year 2100. The number of heat wave days in Chicago is expected to go up 25%. 4</span>


==Transport PIC== 

Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its daily mobility infrastructure investment in Indian Country

The term transportation comes of flawed masculine scholarship – it should be replaced with the term daily mobility to signal new cultural geographies of gender sensitive transport.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Law 99</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robin, Department o Geography, University of Otago New Zealand, "Progress in Human Geography", [[http://phg.sagepub.com/content/23/4/567.full.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A few words on terminology and scope are necessary here. .....</span>**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> social and cultural geographies of mobility.</span>__**

This scholarship is a pretext to androcentrism– it necessitates war in all realms of politics – the result is extinction

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Warren and Cady 96</span>
Warren and Cady Professor @ Macalester U 96<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karen,., and Duane, Professor @ Hamline, Bringing peace home: feminism, violence, and nature, 1996, p.12-13)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional ..... roots of various woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global contexts. </span>



==FW== 

**A – Interpretation – the aff has to defend action by the federal government in Washington D.C.**


1. “Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rmy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">O</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">fficer </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">chool ‘</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">4</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)</span>

<span class="underline">The colon introduces</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the following: .....The details following an announcement For sale: (colon) large lakeside cabin with dock g. </span><span class="underline">A formal resolution, after the word "resolved:"Resolved: (colon) That this council petition the mayor.</span>


2. “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ericson 3</span> (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging Future Action In policy ..... is to offer sufficient and compelling reasons for an audience to perform the future action that you propose. </span>



<span class="TitleChar">B – Violation – they don’t defend USFG action to build political structures as the SOLE reason to vote affirmative </span>


**Predictable ground – without defending a concrete action, the aff creates a vacuum where an infinite number of discursive appeals could be enacted by an infinite number of agents. Only fiat guarantees political process ground.**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mearsheimer, 95 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(John, Professor of Political Science at University of Chicago, International Security, v. 19, Winter)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is another problem with the application of ..... emerge as the new hegemonic discourse.</span>


**Rules and structures are necessary for good debate – they are critical for education and this turns their solvency claims**

**Shivley 2k**

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Ruth Lessl</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Shively</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2000</span>**</span>//<span style="font-size: 12px;"> Political Theory and Partisan Politics</span>//<span style="font-size: 12px;"> p. 180</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the same manner, then</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, the ambiguists' ....... contestation rests on some basic agreement</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or harmony. </span>




<span class="TitleChar">Even if language isn’t objective, it’s intersubjective. We must give words meaning that most people agree to in order for ANY communication to be effective. </span>

**Spegele ‘2**

[Roger, prof of Int Politics and former Visiting Fellow @ Princeton, IR and the Third Debate]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, Ashley's arguments about ..... arguments in the remainder of the chapter, when I argue that Ashley's discourse is Utopian, relativist, and irrational.</span>



**Effective deliberative discourse is the lynchpin to solving all existential social and political problems---a switch-side debate format that sets appropriate limits on argument to foster a targeted discussion is most effective---our K turns the whole case**

Christian O. <span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Lundberg 10</span> Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in __Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century__ By Allan D. Louden, p311

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The second major problem with the critique that ..... </span>**existential challenges**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to democracy [in an] increasingly complex world. </span>


==<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2NR </span>== 

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Elections and Case</span>