[[toc]]
=2AC Topicality= 
==2AC T--in== 
Guam is in the US
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DOI ’12</span> (Department of the Interior profile of Guam, last updated 1-05-12, accessed 7/9/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.doi.gov/archive/oia/Islandpages/gumpage.htm]]</span>, YX)

Political Status Guam … held in 1970.

That counts
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cornell</span> University <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Law</span> School, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">no date</span> (Cornell University Law School’s Legal Information Institute citing US Code, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/2340]]</span>, accessed 7/9/12, YX)

18 USC § 2340 … the United States.

Federal transportation laws apply – solves ground
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guam EDA 11</span> Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11 (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,”
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic%20Development%20Strategy.pdf]]</span>, YX)

Local Government Guam … and social circumstances.
In means possession
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">BQ No Date </span>(Brainy Quote Dictionary, text taken from page titled, “Definition of In,” no date given. Text found at [http://www.brainyquote.com/words/in/in176939.html] by Hirsh)
The specific signification … of her husband.

==2AC T--military== 


=2AC Kritiks= 
==2AC Security K== 
==2AC Predictions K== 

=2AC Counterplans= 
==2AC States CP== 

=2AC Disads= 
==2AC Elections DA (Obama good)== 
==2AC Federalism DA== 



=2AC Case= 
==Hegemony Advantage== 
===2AC A2 Heg Unsustainable=== 
Plan makes heg sustainable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCain 12 </span>John McCain, US military strategist, FP most powerful Republican, Chairman on foreign armscommittee,8/28/2012,“LeadingfromtheFront”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/08/28/leading_from_the_front?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span>, KENTUCKY
First, Republicans would .. their high hopes.
===2AC A2 No Power Vacuums=== 
Loss of heg causes power vacuums, that escalates to war
James <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carafano,</span> PhD, Professor @ Georgetown, 8-29<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 11,</span> “Paving the way to World War III,” The Washington Examiner, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/2011/08/paving-way-world-war-iii]] , KENTUCKY
In short order, … freedom a chance.
==Warming Advantage== 
===2AC A2 Too Late to Solve=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We don’t need to eliminate all emissions, just get them to a safe level.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ireland 9 </span>Corydon Ireland, Harvard Gazette, “McKibben’s movement: 350.org,” 10/19/2009, http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2009/10/mckibben-brings-350-home/

McKibben’s message is … and alternative energy

===2AC A2 Adaptation Solves=== 
Adaptation isn’t sufficient – reducing emissions key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">C2ES 11</span> (Center for Climate and Energy Solutions - successor to the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, and recently named the world’s top environmental think tank, "Science FAQs," [[http://www.c2es.org/global-warming-basics/faq_s/glance_faq_science.cfm]])
However, different regions … to unavoidable change.

==Solvency== 
===2AC Plan Passes Through DoD=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan passes through DoD</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvo '12 </span>Eddie Baza Calvo, Governor of Guam, "News: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start", 5/23/12, governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start//Aspomer)

The Governor expressed … about this commitment.


=2AC Impact Defense= 



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]