[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Lexington== 
1AC plan text
The United States federal government should end its military presence in South Korea and Japan. 
1AC China war
Contention 1 is US-Sino war
3 internal links:
First is sphere of influence:
As China rises, it will need a regional sphere of influence
Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” http://www.independent.org/pdf/working_papers/63_china.pdf )
If rapid economic growth does … military strength (short-term power).
Military presence obstructs China's sphere, causes nuke war.
Ivan Eland, 4/11/05 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Coexisting with a rising China?”. http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494 )
Unfortunately, in international relations, talk … war or even a nuclear conflagration.

Wtihdrawal solves—forces the US to reevaluate its interests
Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” http://www.independent.org/pdf/working_papers/63_china.pdf )
U.S. “vital interests” are currently … imperial bushﬁre war in Iraq. 
Second is arms race, presence causes it
Bandow, 08 – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812, JMP)
Still, does an American presence … today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.

War and relations collapse
Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 06 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]
Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives … no victors from such a conflagration. 

China war goes global and nuclear
Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]
A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.
Even a limited war would cause extinction
Takai ‘9, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/ [gender paraphrased])
What would happen if China … heeding by nuclear hard-liners. 

First strike fails
Bin, Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua Universit, 06 [Li, “Paper Tiger with
Whitened Teeth”, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_5.pdf]
Rather than exploring why China … risks to the United States.

Trade won't solve
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)
Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, … confront the United States tomorrow.

The plan does offshore balancing
Doug Bandow, 6/3/06 (former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20060603db.html )
But America is not alone. … responsibility for their own defense.

That shifts the burden to allies and long range capabilities which mangage China more effectively but prevent war
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)
Similarly, at an October 2007 conference … by engaging in security competitions. 
Independently, security tension between the US and China causes nuclear wars across the globe
Conable and Lampton 93 – Chair; and … exacerbate the dilemmas facing Washington.

China's rise inevitable—growth rate differentials and structural pressures
Christopher Layne, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service . 2004. (The Asia-Pacific: A Region in Transition. http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Edited%20Volumes/RegionalFinal%20chapters/Chapter5Layne.pdf. p 56)
Growth rate differentials, however, are … be exploited by the hegemon.

Deterrence fails—defense is easier than offense
Bandow, 09 – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)
So Washington should exhibit humility … other's economic and geopolitical ambitions.
1AC Regionalism
Contention 2 is regionalism

Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a … motivate sustainable regional security cooperation
Carpenter and Bandow 4 - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND ** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR
The security treaties with the … central and west-central Pacific.
Bilateral alliances trade off with a more multilateral structure. Empirically proven.
Deepak Nair, Research Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. 2008. (Contemporary Southeast Asia Vol. 31, No. 1. pg 124
http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-198805524/regionalism-asia-pacificeast-asia.html. )

The second related factor that … deepened with Singapore and India."
[continues on page 129]
As highlighted in this article, … future'" is not entirely tenable.'^

East Asia is on brink of war—only regional solutions solve instability
Feng 5/10/10 [Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10, 2010, http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]
If it is not yet … every country in the region.

Regionalism prevents conflict escalation and nuclear war—bilateralism fails
Swanstrom 5 [Niklas, *Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, USA. Dr. Swanström's specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, http://www.isdp.eu/images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf] 
After the end of the … any conclusions can be drawn.

Independently, presence causes a moral backlash and provocations that crush alliances and cause war
Johnson ‘01 [Chalmers, Ph. D Political Science UC Berkley, Professor of Emeritus University of San Diego, Former CIA Consultant, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, 5/14, http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]
In lieu of concrete security … satellites did in Eastern Europe.

Extinction
Jonathan S. Landay (staff) March 10 2000 “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts:, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, l/n 
WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that … , according to the Commerce Department.


Defensive realism is true—proves our aff, answers your disads, and mitigates your critiques
Taliaferro, '1—Associate Professor of Political Science at Tufts University (Jeffrey W. Taliaferro. 
International Security, Vol. 25, No. 3 (Winter, 2000-2001). “Security Seeking under Anarchy: Defensive Realism Revisited”. JSTOR. pp 136)
ASSUMPTION 1: THE INTRACTABILITY OF THE … anticipated high costs and risks of



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]