<span style="color: #000000;">I negate. </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Observations:</span>
# The United States refers to all three branches of the U.S. federal government working in unison.
# Ought indicates a normative obligation; thus, the resolution asks a normative policy question.
# The resolution is truth-testing, which means you affirm by proving the resolution true and negate if I prove __any part of the resolution untrue.__
# A non-citizen is a person neither born in nor naturalized to the United States. Non-citizens cannot vote, do not pay taxes, and are not members of the body politic. 

<span style="color: #000000;">The value is Justice. Justice is defined as giving each their due. </span>

[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]<span style="color: #000000;"> Hobbes explains, in the state of nature </span>

**__<span style="color: #000000;">every man is Enemy...</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000;">danger of violent death</span>__****<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>**

<span style="color: #000000;"> Hobbes 2 explains, </span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> **__a man__** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">be</span><span style="color: #000000;"> **__willing...__**</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">__men in the condition of Warre.__</span>**  



<span style="color: #000000;">My sole contention is that the United States has no obligation to offer due process protections to non-citizens accused of terrorism because they were never parties to the covenant. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Non-citizens are not parties to the social contract. They never renounced their right in the state of nature to dominate others nor submitted to be governed by the United States. As a result they have no claim against the United States for due process protections.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">You negate because there is no obligation to extend due process protections to non-citizens. </span>

----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> Hobbes, Thomas. //Leviathan- Revised Edition//, eds. A.P. Martinich and Brian Battiste. Peterborough, ON: Broadview Press, 2010.</span>