[[toc]]
=Impact Turns= 

==Dedevelopment== 
===1NC=== 
====1NC UQ==== 
**Collapse of society is inevitable—it’s better to have it now than to have a catastrophic one in the future**
**MacKenzie 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Debora, Are We Doomed, New Scientist, Vol. 197 Issue 2650, p32-35, 4p, 4 May 2005, EBSCO, AMiles) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation....and prevent stagnation or collapse, and </span>__in the long run__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> this </span>__cannot be sustainable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
====1NC Environment==== 
**Growth makes eco-collapse inevitable**
**Speth, law prof, 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental adviser and as head of the United Nations’ largest agency for international development Prof at Vermont law school. Former dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University . Former Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center, teaching environmental and constitutional law. .Former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality in the Executive Office of the President. Co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Was law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black JD, Yale. (James Gustave, The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9, AMiles)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But the much larger and more threatening impacts ... transformative changes needed. </span>

**Extinction**
**Chen 2k**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Professor of Law and Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar, University of Minnesota Law School (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers, Winter 2000, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157, Lexis, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ellipses in original </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conscious </span>__decisions to allow__ __the ...__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> million years, perhaps a hundred million. 348</span>
====1NC War==== 
**Growth makes war inevitable**
**Trainer 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO, AMiles)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If this limits-to-growth analysis is at ... to ‘The Simpler Way’. </span>

**Extinction**
**Chase-Dunn 96**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems at the University of (Christopher, Conflict Among Core States: World-System Cycles and Trends, 23 January 1996, http://wsarch.ucr.edu/archive/papers/c-d&hall/warprop.htm, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Note-figure omitted </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Late </span>__in the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">K-wave </span>__upswing__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(i.e....</span>__revenues are high__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (because the states can then afford the high costs of war). Boswell and Sweat call this the "resource theory of war." </span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]