[[toc]]
See Sam's wiki for more disclosure. You can also email me at jcallison13@kentdenver.org

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">September-October (Greenhill)</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span></span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Habermas AC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Habermas AC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I value morality since ought implies a moral obligation. Moral logic is metaethically subordinate to language. **Wittgenstein:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tractatus Logico-philisophicus, International Library of Psychology Philosophy and Scientific Method, London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & CO., LTD, 1922)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The limits of... by the proposition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The communication of others is the only way to verify objective truth. **Habermas:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, 2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This performatively established... understandings and actions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Denying someone’s right to communicate is a performative contradiction. **Hoppe:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(From the Economics of Laissez Faire to The Ethics of Libertarianism, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in Man, Economy, and Liberty: Essays in Honor of Murray N. Rothbard, The Ludwig von Mises Institute Auburn University)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, it should... in a contradiction. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Discourse ethics is a side constraint on, and a prerequisite to other ethical theories. **Kettner:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Vol. 6, no. 1 (2011) Discourse Ethics beyond Apel and Habermas. A Realistic Relaunch, by Matthias Kettner)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taking up what... within moral discourse.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government power is derived from the communication of its constituents. **Flynn:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Communicative Power in Habermas’s Theory of Democracy, Jeffrey Flynn, Middlebury College, Vermont, European Journal of Political Theory)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Habermas argues that... generated communicative power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is maintaining a free system of communication.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III courts are key to rendering the most informed agreement about a defendant’s sentencing. **Corbett:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.[[http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf]]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A highly valued... punishment possible: death.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III prevents distortion of evidence and best equips a defendant to advocate for himself. **Wang:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tova Andrea Wang, 2003 The Century Foundation. The Military Tribunals Debate)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to the Defense... an effective defense.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only federal courts ensure public opinion and participation are included in the process. **CFC:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts February 6, 2004 (revised March 18, 2004))</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In summarizing the... acceptance of its legitimacy. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 1 - Preempts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Detention fuels nationalism, terrorism, and extremist propaganda. **Waxman:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Matthew C. Waxman 09, [Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Historically, detention practices... in battling insurgencies.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming the cosmopolitan equality of all persons regardless of citizenship is the only way to prevent nuclear war. **Pogge:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Pogge, Thomas W. "Cosmopolitanism and Sovereignty." Ethics 103.1 (1992): 48-75.JSTOR. Web. 17 June 2012.[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381495]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under the current regime... adjudicated and enforced.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Non-citizens give to the state and fulfill contractual agreements with us. **Cole:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Cole, David. "Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?."GEORGETOWN LAW The Scholarly Commons. (2003): n. page. Web. 23 Aug. 2012)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fact that... solicitude is appropriate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 2 - Theory</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nickel** clarifies due process:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF LEGAL STUDIES: ISSUE 1 Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies James W. Nickel)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DPRs are legal... to a higher court.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff gets RVIs </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Strat-skew </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Topic Lit </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. Reciprocity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No neg counterplans on this topic.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Predictability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Research skew</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. Ground</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">d. Real-world - Bell: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Bringing terrorists to justice – Joshua T. Bell, Vol 4, No 4 (2010))</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The debate as... a constructive debate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-View 3 - Courts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III empirically get a ton of convictions with no intelligence release. **Bell:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Joshua T. Bell 10 [Special Agent with the United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in Washington, D.C.], “Trying Al Qaeda: Bringing Terrorists to Justice”, Perspectives on Terrorism, a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative, Vol. 4 No. 4, 2010.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Among the most... and impartial way</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Negative]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span></span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Negative-Prussians NC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prussians NC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The will becomes normative through its intersubjective unification by the state. **Hegel:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Philosophy of the Right, Part III: The Ethical Life, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel,[[http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/pr/prstate.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The state is... authoritative within it.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The state’s will is synonymous with morality because a normative constraint on the state only makes sense in terms of its own power.**Williams:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(State Morality in International Relations, Bruce Williams, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb., 1923), pp. 17-33)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It has been... not be detained.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Those in power define the opposition between good and bad. **Nietzsche:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Nietzsche “On the Genealogy of Morals” translated by Ian Johnston. [[http://records.viu.ca/~johnstoi/nietzsche/genealogy1.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the contrary... take possession of it.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is consistency with the will of the state. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I contend that the state wills that non-citizens ought not have due process. **Cole:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? David Cole Georgetown University Law Center, cole@law.georgetown.edu)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the wake... normal judicial process.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Denying due process is most consistent with the state’s will because it’s a pre-requisite to the state’s normative authority. **Butler:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Precarious Life: The Powers of Morning and Violence, Judith Butler, 2004, Page 52)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With the publication... power takes place.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Negative-Danger Close NC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Danger Close NC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An obligation to collective utility is constitutive of government. **Goodin 1:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of Political Theory, Public Policy, and Applied Ethics, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, Cambridge University Press, 1995. p. 26-7] SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The great advantage... defensible public philosophy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Util is the only epistemically accessible theory to governments. **Goodin 2:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consider, first, the... possible general rule.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Preventing extinction is a side-constraint on any ethical theory. **Bostrom:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(2011 Nick Bostrom, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These reflections on... any existential catastrophe.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My advocacy is that we use targeted killings in Pakistan but I’ll defend giving no one due process. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is mutually exclusive with giving terrorists due process. **Proulx:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Vincent-Joel, Doctoral Candidate, If the Hat Fits, Wear It, If the Turban Fits, Run for your Life: Reflections on the Indefinite Detention and Targeted Killing of Suspected Terrorists, Hastings Law Review 56.801, 889-890).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This leads us... law and dignity. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistani terrorism cells are on the brink now but more strikes are needed. **Miller:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Greg Miller, “Officials: Al-Qaeda close to collapse” The Washington Post. Met 2 Edition, July 27, 2011, p. A01)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. counterterrorism officials... regionally focused nodes. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is key to high-value target destruction. **Llenza:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Targeted Killings in Pakistan: A Defense Michael Steven Llenza Diplomacy Department Norwich University, Global Security Studies, Spring, 2011, Volume 2, Issue 2) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Two leading aggregators... also killed (ibid.). </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Put away your generic turns. Backlash empirically went down in Pakistan because of targeted killing. **Johnston:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Impact of U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorism in Pakistan, February 25, 2012, Post-Doctoral Scholar, Department of Political Science, Stanford University) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Do drone strikes... suicide attacks speciﬁcally. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is key to strategic disruption. In Pakistan it doesn’t create backlash – it empowers the people to destroy terrorist organizations. **Llenza 2:** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What counter-terrorism... their return (ibid.). </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unchecked terrorism in Pakistan causes regional conflict and risks escalation. **Vira:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent, Varun Vira, Small Wars Journal, Varun Vira) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Historically over the... larger-scale conflict.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kashmir war ends in extinction. **Fai:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ghulam Nabi Fai, executive director of the Kashmiri American Council, July 8, 2001, The Washington Times, “The most dangerous place,” p. B4) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most dangerous... Cut-off Convention.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">November-December (Apple Valley, Glenbrooks, Alta)</span></span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span></span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Rawls AC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rawls AC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moral norms are only justifiable if they’re hypothetical and unbiased. Otherwise, agents can always ask why they ought to be moral in the first place. In addition, non-agent relative norms are the only way to solve for pluralistic disagreement. **Stark:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Hypothetical Consent and Justification, Cynthia A. Stark, The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 97, No. 6 (Jun., 2000), pp. 313-334, Journal of Philosophy, Inc.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The basic idea... renders it empty.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To truly understand oneself, one must legislate from the original position and acknowledge the perspectives of others. **Beatty:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Rationality of the "Original Position": A Defense, Joseph Beatty, Ethics, Vol. 93, No. 3 (Apr., 1983), pp. 484-495, The University of Chicago Press)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why, however, is... to determine themselves.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must legislate rules from the original position to eliminate bias and maintain consistency with the equality of persons. **Freeman:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Freeman, Samuel. "Original Position." Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. [[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri|http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri]]. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The remedy for... for moral persons.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even if someone were a risk-taker from behind the veil, they would still choose to promote the well being of the worst-off in order to maximize their potential to take risks in the future. **Freeman 2**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is often... principle of utility.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is promoting the equal opportunity of persons.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Behind the Veil</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Individuals would contract to for universal healthcare because it would ensure a basic standard of care. **Henneberger:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Henneberger, Ian, "Healthcare and Justice: A Moral Obligation?" (2011). Philosophy Honors Papers. Paper 1.[[http://digitalcommons.conncoll.edu/philhp/1]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rational and self-concerned... put towards healthcare.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Individuals would will universal health care because they would perceive it as providing equal access. **Henneberger 2:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daniels finds the... the least advantaged.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is Outside the Veil</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Universal health care prevents death and decreases socioeconomic inequality. **Gelormino et al:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Elena Gelormino , Clare Bambra , Teresa Spadea , Silvia Bellini , Giuseppe Costa, “The Effects of Health Care Reforms on Health Inequalities: A Review and Analysis of the European Evidence Base”, International Journal of Health Services, Volume 41, No. 2.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The studies that... of income distribution.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Health care is key to mitigating the adverse effects of social inequality and lack of mobility. **Marshall:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(National Healthcare and Amrican Constitutional Culture, William P. Marshall, Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina., Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the most... are as nation. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C) Universal health care would prevent 45,000 deaths per year and prevent the marginalization of ethnic minorities. **Leonard:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dr. David J. Leonard Author, Educator Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2) Posted: 09/07/2012 9:40 am. Huffington Post.[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A consequence of... on board with.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 1 - Interps</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My advocacy is a publically funded single payer system. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff gets RVIs.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Strat-skew</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Topic Lit</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presume aff.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Skep means you presume.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 2 - Preempts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The well off in society negatively violate the rights of those who are not, mandating assistance. Governments are directly responsible for putting those in poverty in their situation through their actions, regulation of the economy, and public policy. Any means-based standard collapses into affirming because we have a positive duty to rectify these harms. **Pogge:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Thomas Pogge, ‘Priorities of Global Justice,’ Metaphilosophy, Vol 32., January, 2001))</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are not... the developing world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming is a pre-req to autonomy. The best way for people to be responsible for their own health is to provide universal health care. When uninsured, people can’t be autonomous and drag-down those around them. **Light:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Paul Menzel and Donald Light. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care [Professor of Philosophy atPacific Lutheran University] Hastings Center Report July-August 2006 pgs 3)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conservatives’ wariness of... for American business.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ingle-payer best protects general health and saves money. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lu and Hsiao:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jui-Fen Rachel Lu and William C. Hsiao Does Universal Health Insurance Make Health Care Unaffordable? Lessons From Taiwan. Health Affairs. Vol 22 #3, 2003.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taiwan established a... quality and health outcomes.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span></span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Autonomy NC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Autonomy NC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presume neg.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humans are ends in themselves because they’re the source of external value. **Korsgaard:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christine Korsgaard: The Authority of Reflection, Foundations of Ethics: An Anthology by Russ Shafer-Landau])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">He started from... its own sake.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Autonomy comes first because it’s a precondition to making truth claims. **Hoppe:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(From the Economics of Laissez Faire to The Ethics of Libertarianism, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in Man, Economy, and Liberty: Essays in Honor of Murray N. Rothbard, The Ludwig von Mises Institute Auburn University)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, it should... in a contradiction. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is respecting autonomy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Healthcare coerces people to buy insurance and redistributes income. **Reynolds:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Alan Reynolds [Senior Cato Institute Fellow]. “Redistributing Health”. New York Post. December 12 2009.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Proponents of compulsory... for taxpayer subsidies.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-The Last Man NC]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Last Man NC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The good needs to be situated in overcoming because ends are inescapably fleeting. **Katsafanas:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzschean Version of Constitutivism, Paul Katsafanas, Boston University, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research Vol. LXXXIII No. 3, November 2011)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many philosophers reject... and attaining goals.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We unify experience by overcoming it. **Warren:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Mark Warren, Nietzsche and Political Philosophy, Political Theory, Vol. 13, No. 2 (May, 1985), pp. 183-212)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The final presupposition... and the evaluative.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is overcoming resistance. Pitying others or attempting to alleviate suffering violates agents' ability to overcome. **Routledge:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Nietzsche on Herd Morality and the Critique of ‘Modern Ideas,’ Routledge Publishing, A Taylor and Francis Group)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When Nietzsche condemns... morality of pity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The will to power precludes us from assenting to general state action – it underpins a consistent state of anarchy where individuals reject the state from influencing their lives. **Martin:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Aristocratic Radicalism or Anarchy? An examination of Nietzsche’s Doctrine of Will to Power, Martin Jenkins. BA [Hons], MA, PGCE, Cert Coun)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mastery is by... and contest it.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February]]January-February (Golden Desert, Berkeley)</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Valued is ‘highly regarded or esteemed.’[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] So the res is a question of which system is better on principle and not which action should be implemented.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rehabilitation is ‘To restore to good health or useful life, as through therapy and education.’[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] So the aim of it is to care for the subject. Retributive systems must be based on desert and justify punishment for its own sake. **Hart**[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"It is I think...for the punishment?"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Since the resolution questions what one ought to do, I value morality. However, moral claims are senseless without an understanding of the identity of the persons that they affect. An ‘ought’ claim could not be consistent without first accounting for the socialized relations of someone. **SELZNICK**[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Obligations based on...to the relationship."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moreover, understanding our own identity is key to understanding our ethical being and responsibility. **BUTLER**[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"What perhaps emerges ... at what cost?"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, any epistemic inquiry devolves into a question of ontology and identity. **Heidegger**[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Fundamental concepts are...this expression "being."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, this is particularly true because any concept must presuppose a proper conception of ontology to be internally sound. **Dillon**[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"As Heidegger himself an...put into question."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, human beings are ontologically tied to caring for others and receiving such care. **Engster**[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Our dependency on...aggression and neglect."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, it’s contradictory not to care for others because we implicitly value their care for us.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Consequences are epistemically inaccessible. **Dorsey**[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"First, virtually anything...without a clue."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, our identity is formed through our expression and interaction in communal settings. Community is both the foundation for relational identity and the source of moral obligation in the first place. **HASTE**[[home#_ftn12|[12]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Communitarian thinkers start...and historical context."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, individual identity can never be conceived of without communal relations. The liberal self is absent of value and without constitution. **WALZER**[[home#_ftn13|[13]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The writings of...and narrative capacity."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, communal interaction is the way we challenge beliefs about reality and ourselves. We need the community to intersubjectively shape our identity. **HABERMAS**[[home#_ftn14|[14]]]: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This performatively established...understandings and actions."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, the standard is strengthening communal bonds.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I preclude your understanding of ethics, because yours isn’t a holistic grounding of morality. **Held**[[home#_ftn15|[15]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Second, in the...observed and described."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the framework is means based because double effect must shape moral and legal inquiry. **Wedgewood**[[home#_ftn16|[16]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The fundamental idea...whole normative domain."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**First,** only a rehabilitative approach introduces offenders to the emotional relevance of their crime and introduces them to those affected. Retributive justice denies interpersonal care and condemns persons to isolation. **Failinger**[[home#_ftn18|[18]]]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Restorative justice...family group conferencing."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**And**, retributive processes reinforce singular and isolated communities. Through rehab, an offender is introduced to his or her community and taught to care for it. **Failinger 2:** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Restorative processes also...away from caring." </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**And,** Rehabilitation clarifies and solidifies the significance of crime and the law and forms more cohesion in society.**Frederiksen**[[home#_ftn19|[19]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Victims remain on...protect their interests."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**And,**The only intrinsic evil in the process is not relating to the criminal in the deliberatons, which retribution does not allow. It severs the law from the social process. **Meyer**[[home#_ftn20|[20]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Transgression is not... of "lifestyle politics."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Finally,** retributive justice creates an adversarial confrontation between the offender and the court. It teaches hate instead of love. **Failinger 3**: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Perhaps most importantly... in family conferencing."</span>








<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/valued</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Failure of Retributivism, Russ Shafer-Landau, Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition, Vol. 82, No. 3 (Jun., 1996), pp. 289-316. SM</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.thefreedictionary.com/rehabilitation</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> H. L. A. Hart, //Punishment and Responsibility// (Oxford University Press, 1968), 231.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199542895.001.0001/acprof-9780199542895</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;"> Philip Selznick, Personhood and Moral Obligation, New Communitarian Thinking, Amitei Etzioni, 1995</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Judith Butler [Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at University of California at Berkeley], Giving an Account of Oneself, New York: Fordham University Press (2005), p. 135-136</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, State University of New York Press, 1996.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Dillon, Political Science, Lancaster, 1999, Moral Spaces, ed. Campbell and Shapiro, p. 97-8.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Engster. //The Heart of Justice//. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://philpapers.org/s/Dale%20Dorsey|Dale Dorsey]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, "Consequentialism, Metaphysical Realism and the Argument from Cluelessness,” </span>[[http://philpapers.org/asearch.pl?pubn=Philosophical%20Quarterly|//Philosophical Quarterly//]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 62 (246): 48-70 (2012). SM</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref12|[12]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;">[[home#_ftnref13|[13]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;"> Michael Walzer, “The Communitarian Critique of Liberalism,” in //New Communitarian Thinking: Persons, Virtues, Institutions, and Communities//, Amitai Etzioni, 1995</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;">[[home#_ftnref14|[14]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 5pt;"> Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, 2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;">[[home#_ftnref15|[15]]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> //The Ethics of Care: Personal, Political, and Global,// Virginia Held, Oxford University Press, 2006. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref16|[16]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ralph Wedgewood, “Defending Double Effect,” </span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Ratio</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> 24.4 (2011): 384-401.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">[[home#_ftnref17|[17]]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Persson, Ingmar (Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Kungshuset), “Two Act-Omission Paradoxes”. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society. Vol. 104. 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref18|[18]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Marie A. Failinger, “Lessons Unlearned: Women Offenders, The Ethics of Care, and The Promise of Restorative Justice,” Volume 33, Issue 2., Fordham Law Journal, 2007.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref19|[19]]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">Punishment and Political Community: Restorative Justice and the Project of Criminal Justice Reform</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ph.D. Candidate - Department of Political Science, University of Toronto August 28-31, 2008.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref20|[20]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">THE BAUDY WORLD OF THE BYTE BANDIT: A POSTMODERNIST INTERPRETATION OF THE COMPUTER UNDERGROUND, Gordon Meyer and Jim Thomas, Department of Sociology Northern Illinois University, 5 March, 1990</span>

=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-Engster AC]]We Scare Because We Care AC</span>=== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‘<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you feel jaded, great philosopher, because no endeavor is lofty enough for you, plant a little tree or teach a small child to read. And if you wish to serve God,  comfort and care for the child.’ </span></span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Fyodor Dostoevsky, Notebooks to The Brothers Karamazov, from “Dostoevsky and Kant: Dialogues on Ethics,” by Evgenia Cherkasova, Value Inquiry Books Series, New York, 2009)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retributive systems must be based on desert and justify punishment for its own sake. **Hart:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*H. L. A. Hart, //Punishment and Responsibility// (Oxford University Press, 1968), 231.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is I... for the punishment?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contemporary legal approaches are divorced from the interpersonal care they provide for their subjects. Such an approach violates the very foundation the law was built upon and has historically underpinned oppression. Prior to moral approaches, the law must first care for its subjects. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">West:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Robin West, //Caring For Justice//, New York University Press, 1997) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The work of... injustice as well.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any epistemic inquiry devolves into a question of ontology. **Heidegger:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Martin Heidegger, //Being and Time,// State University of New York Press, 1996) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fundamental concepts are... this expression being.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is particularly true because any concept must presuppose a proper conception of ontology to be internally sound. **Dillon:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Dillon, Political Science, Lancaster, 1999, Moral Spaces, ed. Campbell and Shapiro, p. 97-8) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Heidegger himself... put into question.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Human beings are ontologically tied to caring for others and receiving such care. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Engster:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Daniel Engster. The Heart of Justice. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our dependency on... aggression and neglect.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s contradictory not to care for others because we implicitly value their care for us. **Engster 2:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Daniel Engster, “Rethinking Care Theory: The Practice of Caring and the Obligation to Care,” Hypatia, Volume 20, Number 3, Summer 2005, pp. 50-74) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Care theory avoids... and basic functioning.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is caring for others. The framework is means based because double effect must shape moral and legal inquiry. **Wedgewood:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ralph Wedgewood, “Defending Double Effect,” Ratio 24.4 (2011): 384-401) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fundamental idea... whole normative domain.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The intention behind rehab is to care for and help the offender. Punishment’s intent is to make them suffer. **Cullen and Gendreau:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau, “Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects,” in Policies, Processes, and Decisions of the Criminal Justice System, vol. 3 , Julie Horney, ed., 2000, p. 130-31) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A collateral theme... violence and extermination. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only a rehabilitative approach introduces offenders to the emotional relevance of their crime and to those affected. Retributive justice denies interpersonal care and condemns persons to isolation. **Failinger:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Marie A. Failinger, “Lessons Unlearned: Women Offenders, The Ethics of Care, and The Promise of Restorative Justice,” Volume 33, Issue 2., Fordham Law Journal, 2007) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Restorative justice approaches... family group conferencing.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is particularly evident during retributive trial processes, which are adversarial and competitive by nature. **Failinger 2:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Restorative processes also... away from caring.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retribution breeds hatred. Rehabilitation is the best way to inspire cooperative solutions. **Failinger**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> 3: </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perhaps most importantly... in family conferencing. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Hegel NC]]Hegel NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morality is characterized by the dialectical struggle of social existence. The will actualizes itself in property, which is the only proper grounding for epistemology and freedom. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinberger:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">(Peter J. Steinberger, “Hegel on Crime and Punishment,” The American Political Science Review, Vol. 77, No. 4 (Dec., 1983), pp. 858-870) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For Hegel, punishment... least some property.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Crime constitutes an attack on the will. It is both a limitation of someone’s particular property right and the concept of property rights as a whole. Retribution is necessary to reaffirm such rights. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinberger 2:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A world of... of the Right.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The purpose of punishment is not to deter or rehabilitate – both are besides the reaffirmation of the will. Punishment could cause more crime and still be morally necessary. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinberger 3:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Again, the restoration... issue of punishment.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Emotivism NC]]Emotivism NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality is a neurologically emotive process. Any realist fact is just an illusion of our emotive phenomenology. **Greene:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Joshua Greene, [Cognitive Neuroscientist and Philosopher, Ph.D., Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Psychology and Center for the Study of Brain, Mind and Behavior at Princeton University], “From neural ‘is’ to moral ‘ought:” what are the moral implications of neuaroscientific moral psychology? ” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, Volume 4, October, 2003.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As noted above... make moral decisions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality must be grounded in our emotive intuitions or it cannot be internally binding or guide action. **Haidt:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jonathan Haidt, [University of Virginia Philosophy Department], “The Emotional Dog and Its Rational Tail: A Social Intuitionist Approach to Moral Judgment,” Psychological Review, Vol. 108. No. 4, 814-834, 2001.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the 18th... of rationality itself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is consistency with emotive expression. I contend that people emotionally prefer retribution because it appeases feelings of fear. **Bowes:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Chris Bowes, “Retribution vs Rehabilitation,” Globe Crime Series, August 18, 2008.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Every time the... devastating our communities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sympathy is a secondary feeling to the emotive outrage we have towards crime. Retribution is comparatively more consistent with emotional intuition. **Clark:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tom W. Clark, [Research associate, Institute for Behavioral Health, Heller School, Brandeis University], “Criminal Justice,” Naturalism.org, December, 2001.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But, he points... in some sense.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Deont NC]]Deont NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We confer value upon external objects, making our rationality the inviolable source of normativity. **Korsgaard:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christine Korsgaard, “Two Distinctions in Goodness,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 92, No. 2 (Apr., 1983), 182.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In order for... ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only retributivism treats persons as rational ends by respecting their will and their right to punishment. **Buchholz:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Todd G. Buchholz, “Punishing Humans,” Thought, Summer 1984, v. 59, p. 283.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In conceiving punishment... a rational being.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-T - Implementation]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Implementation</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Interpretation -** 'ought to be’ entails an ideal without an action or imperative. **Robinson:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Richard Robinson, “Ought and Ought Not,” Philosophy, Vol. 46, No. 177 (Jul., 1971), pp. 193-202.) SM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many ought-sentences... expressing an ideal.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standards - </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Textuality</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Predictability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ground</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drop the aff on T. No RVI. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Requested Cites]]Requested Cites</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Requested Cites-Rehab Studies Flawed]]Communitarian FW</span>=== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]