[[toc]]
=Naval Power Neg= 
==Defense---1NC== 

**No threats to naval power**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goure 10</span>**Ph.D, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vice President of the Lexington Institute, a defense-policy think tank, former deputy director of the International Security Program at the CSIS, 7/2 “Can The Case Be Made For Naval Power?” http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/can-the-case-be-made-for-naval-power-?a=1&c=1171</span>
__For more than six decades, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">capabilities than it currently possesses.</span>

**Naval power can’t deter**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward </span>**Rhodes 99** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dean of the school for Public Policy at George Mason University “. . . From the Sea” and Back Again Naval Power in the Second American Century Naval War College Review, Spring 1999, Vol. 52, No. 2 http://www.scribd.com/doc/83402097/Naval-Power-21st-Century</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">second and more </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">important … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a specialized capacity for humanitarian relief. </span>

==No Deterrence---2NC== 


**Deterrence by naval power fails---three reasons**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward </span>**Rhodes 99** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dean of the school for Public Policy at George Mason University “. . . From the Sea” and Back Again Naval Power in the Second American Century Naval War College Review, Spring 1999, Vol. 52, No. 2 http://www.scribd.com/doc/83402097/Naval-Power-21st-Century</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In crisis, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the forward-deployed … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">an all-too-common pathology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==AT Deterrence---Major Powers---2NC== 
**Specifically, naval deterrence has no impact on major powers**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward </span>**Rhodes 99** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dean of the school for Public Policy at George Mason University “. . . From the Sea” and Back Again Naval Power in the Second American Century Naval War College Review, Spring 1999, Vol. 52, No. 2 http://www.scribd.com/doc/83402097/Naval-Power-21st-Century</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In war, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the argument that … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">these cases, relatively less valuable. </span>
==AT Chinese Carriers---2NC== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China’s carrier development means nothing</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert </span>**Ross 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is Professor of Political Science at Boston College and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University "China's Aircraft Carrier: Chinese Naval Nationalism and Its Implications for the United States" Policy Brief, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School October 2011 http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21444/chinas_aircraft_carrier.html?breadcrumb=%2Fpublication%2F21696%2Fto_stay_ahead_of_china_stay_engaged_in_asia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most important, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China's</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> aircraft carrier … </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">carriers in the western Pacific</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==AT Political Instability---2NC== 

**Naval power ineffective---can’t solve internal political problems**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward </span>**Rhodes 99** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dean of the school for Public Policy at George Mason University “. . . From the Sea” and Back Again Naval Power in the Second American Century Naval War College Review, Spring 1999, Vol. 52, No. 2 http://www.scribd.com/doc/83402097/Naval-Power-21st-Century</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obviously, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">global naval hegemony does … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the nation or the Navy.</span>

== == 
==Carriers Bad---1NC== 

**Maintaining a large carrier fleet is bad---dependence on them causes huge vulnerability gaps**
**Gady 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, 1/21 “Aircraft Carriers and Chinese Missiles: Time to Rethink the U.S. Naval Doctrine” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ewi.info/aircraft-carriers-and-chinese-missiles-time-rethink-us-naval-doctrine]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The symbol of American power, **…** well as on its budget.</span>__

**Second, protecting carriers will be __…__ and collapse __offensive power projection__**
**Gady 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, 1/21 “Aircraft Carriers and Chinese Missiles: Time to Rethink the U.S. Naval Doctrine” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ewi.info/aircraft-carriers-and-chinese-missiles-time-rethink-us-naval-doctrine]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the ongoing advancement of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and scored a victory</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of sorts.</span>__


==Overview---2NC== 

**Carrier doctrine ensures inevitable __hegemonic …__ ---only a doctrinal shift away solves**
**Gady 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, 1/21 “Aircraft Carriers and Chinese Missiles: Time to Rethink the U.S. Naval Doctrine” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ewi.info/aircraft-carriers-and-chinese-missiles-time-rethink-us-naval-doctrine]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">How can the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… **up faster with U.S. military might.**</span>__

==Shift Now Key/Lose War---2NC== 

**Doctrinal shift now is key---China’s already developed effective counters to US aircraft carriers---their strict adherence to a failed tactic ensures hegemonic collapse---all empirical examples prove**
**Gady 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, 2/15, “Chinese Missiles and U.S. Loss of Influence in Asia -- Round II” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/franzstefan-gady/chinese-missiles-and-us-l_b_823484.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Revisiting my previous post "Aircraft Carriers … France's primary tactical formation. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’ll kill heg and mean we lose the war if one breaks out---shift now is key </span>**
**Gady 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, 2/15, “Chinese Missiles and U.S. Loss of Influence in Asia -- Round II” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/franzstefan-gady/chinese-missiles-and-us-l_b_823484.html</span>
__What does all of this mean for the US Navy?__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… plans must address these realities.</span>
==Shift Now/Mod DA---2NC== 

**Navy shifting away from carrier dependence now**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Raymond</span> **Pritchett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Contributor to United States Naval Institute Blog, Member of the Atlantic Council, “The Navy is Losing the Narratives Battle” Information Dissemination, June 21, http://www.informationdissemination.net/2011/06/navy-is-losing-narratives-battle.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As of late </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AirSea Battle</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … a budget threat to aircraft carriers</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**That causes a transition to a distributed force structure that solves the aff---investments in submarines and other programs are crucial**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Raymond</span> **Pritchett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contributor to United States Naval Institute Blog, Member of the Atlantic Council, “The Navy is Losing the Narratives Battle” Information Dissemination, June 21, http://www.informationdissemination.net/2011/06/navy-is-losing-narratives-battle.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AirSea Battle doctrine development</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">began … a new distributed naval force structure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Independently---the aff destroys those crucial investments**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric </span>**Labs 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Naval College War Review “Building Our Future Fleet” Summer/Autumn 2004, Vol. 57, No. 3/4 http://www.scribd.com/doc/83402097/Naval-Power-21st-Century</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resource Constraints </span>**__Budgets will play a …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">like taking a knife to a gunfight.</span>

**The aff prevents this transition---allowing a shift away from larger carriers to a lower signature strike Fleet solves the aff better**
**Hendrix & Williams 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Henry––Captain US Navy, and Noel–Lieutenant Colonel US Marine Corps, May, “Twilight of the $UPERflous Carrier” Proceedings Magazine, Vol 137 No 5, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-05/twilight-uperfluous-carrier</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Change is essential</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but Fleets … a new design for a new era. </span>


==Others Better---2NC== 

**Comparative evidence---it’s better for power projection**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tim </span>**Hanifen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Major General US Marine Corps, December, “At the Point of Inflection…” Proceedings Magazine, Vol 137 No 12,http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-12/point-inflection</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The threat of potential adversary … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">well as new advanced weapons</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


==Turns Iran---2NC== 


**Networked fleet prevents asymmetric attack**
**Johnson & Cebrowski 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stuart––Center for Tech and Nat Sec Policy at National Defense University, and Arthur––Former Director Office of Force Transformation for Office of Secretary of Defense, August, “Alternative Fleet Architecture Design”http://www.ndu.edu/CTNSP/docUploaded/DTP%2019%20Alternative%20Fleet%20Architecture%20Design.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A networked fleet</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> consisting of … rapidly</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> enough to changes confronting it.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**That turns Iran**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fariborz </span>**Haghshenass 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran Expert at Washington Institute for Near East Policy, “Iran’s Asymmetric Naval Warfare”http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/uploads/Documents/pubs/PolicyFocus87.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Based on the doctrine of … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">against their territory or interests</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==China Scenario---2NC== 

**Chinese aggression increasing---possibility of conflict is high**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arthur </span>**Waldron 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of IR at UPenn, - VP of International Assessment and Strategy Center and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, Summer, “Political Aspects of Taiwan’s Security in a New Asian Environment” Orbis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By “</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">new Asian environment</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” I mean </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… **changed dramatically**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the meeting.</span>

**Perception US is relying on carriers means China launches conventional strikes---they think they can take them out**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Loren </span>**Thompson****12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chief Operating Office Lexington Institute, CEO Source Associates and Former Deputy Director Security Studies Program at Georgetown, January 23, “Can China Sink A U.S. Aircraft Carrier?”http://www.forbes.com/sites/lorenthompson/2012/01/23/can-china-sink-a-u-s-aircraft-carrier/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For America, access to the … can no longer reach China</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>

**Nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span>**Christensen 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Politics at Princeton, August, “The Meaning of the Nuclear Evolution: China's Strategic Modernization and US-China Security Relations” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol 35 No 4, p 447-487, T&F Online, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/01402390.2012.714710</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the perspective of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">vulnerable set of nuclear capabilities. </span>



==Carriers Ineffective---2NC== 

**Too many vulnerabilities for aircraft carriers**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goure 11</span>**Ph.D, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vice President of the Lexington Institute, a defense-policy think tank, former deputy director of the International Security Program at the CSIS, 7/2 “Enabling the Carrier Strike Group: The Role of the E-2 and C-2” http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/Enabling_The_Carrier_Strike_Group.pdf</span>
__Foremost among those developing the … employ anti-ship cruise missiles.__
**Anti-ship missiles limit effectiveness**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>**Haddick 8/31**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Editor Small Wars Journal, Robert, “Shipping Out: Are aircraft carriers becoming obsolete?” Foreign Policy, 2012, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/08/31/shipping_out</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For decades, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">aircraft carriers have … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-service brawling inside the Pentagon. </span>
==Mayport Not Key---2NC== 

**We already have Mayport strategic dispersal for amphibious ships---sufficient to solve**
**Inside the Navy 7-2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2012 “GREENERT: MOVE OF ARG TO MAYPORT WILL MAKE HARBOR CARRIER-CAPABLE” lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Navy's plan to move … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the eastern seaboard</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." -- Dan Taylor</span>
=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ghill Neg</span>= 


==1NC Relations== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Relations high: claims to the contrary are just rhetoric</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kevin Baron October 16, 2012</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(</span><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">a national security reporter for Foreign Policy, covering defense and military issues in Washington. He is also vice president of the Pentagon Press Association. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friendly Foes: U.S.-Russia military relations soaring, foreign policy, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://e-ring.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/16/friendly_foes_us_russia_military_relations_soaring]]</span>)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the final two presidential debates turn …**__rom either side to slow down military exercises.__**</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No solvency: Us nuclear posture ensures Russian nuclear escalation</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya Oct 30, 2012 (</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Award-winning author, sociologist and geopolitical analyst</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Russia fights US missile shield from sea http://presstv.com/detail/2012/10/30/269550/russia-fights-us-missile-shield-from-sea/)</span>





**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russia’s naval strategy</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> cleverly is …. Russia is merely just one of them. </span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Long term relations doomed: no new strategic opportunities to decrease nukes. Their author</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fenenko 11</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Alex Fenenko, Leading Research Fellow, Institute of International Security Studies of RAS, “The cyclical nature of Russian-American relations, 6/21/11, http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20110621/164739508.htmlGH-Aspomer)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">At first glance, the cyclical character **__….__** for the sake of attractive promises about partnership on ABM issues.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan fails to reset relations</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Graham 10</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Thomas Graham, Ph.D. Former Senior Director of Russia Affairs National Security Council Russia Back at the Center of U.S. Foreign Policy, February 2010, www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">First, common challenges do not necessar- ily **__….__** foreign, that are competing for his attention.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No risk of US-Russian war</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Graham, 7 — senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff (Thomas, “Russia in Global Affairs”, The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness, 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1129.html]]</span>)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">An astute historian of Russia, Martin Malia</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, **__….__** relations with Russia.</span>



==2NC Relations Doomed== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Relations Doomed: US hypocrisy—Their author. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Cohen ‘10</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">So **__American policy is this: The United States can … interests in those places. And so it goes.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Aff can’t solve: START codified the balance of terror. the problem is US nuclear posture, not relations—Their author.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Cohen '10</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., 4/12/10, "Obama's Approach to Arms Control Misreads Russian Nuclear Strategy", www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategy)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Flawed U.S. Arms Control Strategy **__The Obama …__**” Treaty should therefore be rejected.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Relations doomed: Meta-level assumptions guiding US-Russian policy—Their author</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cohen ‘10</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cohen: We can affect the ongoing debates **__…__**fair to blame Obama alone. **__No other American leader has proposed a new policy.__**</span>



==2NC Plan Can’t Reset== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Russia has no incentive to cooperate.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Graham 10</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Thomas Graham, Ph.D. Former Senior Director of Russia Affairs National Security Council Russia Back at the Center of U.S. Foreign Policy, February 2010, www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">For those reasons, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moscow</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">wants to con- strain … does</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, and Moscow can still squeeze out concessions before reciprocating in a serious way.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan can’t solve relations: too narrow</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Legvold 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Robert Professor of Political Science Columbia University</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">“Rapporteur’s Summary", February 2010, www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Still others worried that **__policymakers and … mastering a Russia agenda as elusive as it is important is not easy.__**</span>



==1NC FNPPs== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Impact Inevitable—US Nuclear power: Their Author</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Lendman 11</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Stephen, 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As a result, massive radiation releases **__…__** weapons and commercial dependency exist.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs inevitable: developing countries. Their author</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Grossman 10</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Prof. of Journalism @ SUNY – Karl Grossman, CounterPunch, 27 July 2010, Floating Chernobyls,http://nuclearfreeplanet.org/blogs/counterpunch--karl-grossman-floating-chernobyls.html)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A press release</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> by Rosatom issued with the June 30th launch of the football field-sized barge at St. Petersburg said “there are many countries, including in the developing world, showing interest” in the plants.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Times of London has reported countries interested in buying them include China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Algeria and Argentina</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (“Floating Nuclear Power Stations Raise Spectre of Chernobyl at Sea.”) **__World Nuclear News in its article added Namibia and Cape Verde to the list.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs are inevitable, and no risk of accidents, terror, or prolif.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Time Magazine 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (In Russia, a Push for Floating Nuclear Power Plants By Ken Stier Friday, Nov. 12, http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2031143,00.html#ixzz2CAKEeVKy)</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The idea of FNPPs is simple, if a little scary: **__…__** has a rare lead in an intense global competition.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No transition: Nuclear power will grow by over 25%-- it’s the aff’s burden to prove renewable energy can compensate for all current and future nuclear growth.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">ITAR-TASS September 29</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, 2012 (Share of nuclear power in Russia to grow up to 27 prc by 2030)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">By 2030 the share of nuclear power </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> shipyard in St Petersburg.</span>



==2NC Impact Inev== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Their meltdown impact evidence is out of context: specific to United States nuclear plants being targeted by terrorists: means their impact is inevitable and there is no impact to their scenario because no evidence links Indian Point to FNPPs. Their author.</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Wasserman ‘02</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Harvey, Senior Editor – Free Press, Earth Island Journal, Spring, www.earthisland.org/eijournal/new_articles.cfm?articleID=457&journalID=63)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As US bombs and missiles began to rain on … cheaply replace virtually all the reactors with increased efficiency.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs inevitable-developing nations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Peter Fairley 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (July 02Russia Launches Floating Nuclear Power Plant<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://spectrum.ieee.org/energywise/energy/nuclear/russia-launches-floating-nuclear-power-plant]]</span>)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russian nuclear engineering group </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> champagne-smashing event, according to The Voice of Russia.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs inevitable -- Russia</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ITAR-TASS October 10, 2012 (Medvedev instructs minister to hold meeting on funding for floating NPP)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It was announced earlier that … and coastal African states," Zavylaov said.</span>__**









**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Inev</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Russian American business News Service 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (02/21 Russia building floating nuclear plant; costs, safety issues raise concern http://russianamericanbusiness.org/web_CURRENT/articles/897/1/Russia-building-floating-nuclear-plant%3B-costs,-safety-issues-raise-concern)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As construction of the world’s first floating nuclear power …because of the high price.</span>



==2NC No Impact== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs are inevitable and safe: 90 will be deployed before the crossing is complete</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Reuters 2011 (Alissa de Carbonnel The household bio-reactors of the future http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/04/18/us-nuclear-industry-floating-idUSTRE73H3S020110418)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Researchers</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> at the Argonne National …, who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to speak to the media</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FNPPs are safe</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jim Guirard 2011 (DC-area attorney, writer and national security strategist, Jim Guirard was longtime Chief of Staff to former US Senators Allen Ellender and Russell Long. April 10, The Case for Floating Nuclear Power Plants www.americanthinker.com/2011/04/the_case_for_floating_nuclear.html)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As we consider the future of nuclear … **__to an entirely different site in years to come,__** or for easy replacement of an entire reactor module.</span>



==1NC Solvency== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan doesn’t solve relations, unless the aff engages in extra-topical actions: voting issue—skews neg ground and allows unpredictable advantages. Their author.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rojansky 9/5</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "U.S.-Russia Cooperation Beyond 2012", carnegieendowment.org/2012/09/05/u.s.-russia-cooperation-beyond-2012/)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">President Obama will not attend…-terrorism operations in Pakistan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Project can’t be completed until 2045—disad turns the aff.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Richard Morrison 2011 (thetimes.co.uk August 26, Friday 12:01 AM GMT A train trip from Moscow to New York?; The proposed construction of a tunnel linking the rail networks of Russia and North America is a brave new world indeed)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Not since Yuri Gagarin … **__on a Third World War.__**</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No solvency: costs too uncertain—Their author</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mickler '10</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Michael L. Mickler, Journal of Unification Studies Vol 11 p. 211, "The Bering Strait and Korea-Japan Tunnel Projects: A Strategic Planning Model", www.journals.uts.edu/volume-xi-2010t/370-the-bering-strait-and-korea-japan-tunnel-projects-a-strategic-planning-model-.html)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the end, **__creative financing will not …__** of strategic planning processes and strategic thinking will be immensely helpful in this process.</span>



==2NC No Solvency== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Can’t solve: requires feasibility study and extra-topical power generation</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Razbeg 07</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(VICTOR RAZBEG In Deputy Chairman of the State Research Institution «Council for Study of Productive Forces» (SOPS), Vice-President of the IBSTRG International Corporation, International Conference, Intercontinental Eurasia-America Transport Link VIA the Bering Strait, pg online @ www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/2007_20-29/2007-24/pdf/forum_7.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In order to overcome this hurdle **__it is nec- essary to …__** held on April 10, 2007.</span>



==2NC Too Long== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Their author says the Bering Strait tunnel would take more than 50 years to build</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Barry '11</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Most can agree that a Bering Strait tunnel</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> with the …. in their lifetimes</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">. However, a recommendation is offered that could be accomplished this year.</span>



==2NC Need More Infrastructure== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No solvency: no hinterland infrastructure</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FTSE Global Markets 07 [Dave Simons FTSE Global Markets, June 2007, “Strait Across”, Issue 19, http://www.ftseglobalmarkets.com/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=1035:strait-across]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Compared to the Channel Tunnel, crossing the …. **__to back it up and make it useful.”__**</span>



==1NC ACRL CP== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">CP Text: Canada and the state of Alaska should invite Chinese private investment for the creation of an Alaska-Canada Rail Link.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan vital first step for plan solvency.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Barry '11</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This paper investigates potential avenues of …. support, obtain financing and governmental approvals for this project to succeed.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Land grants for railroads are based on expropriation of Native lands</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Brenman ‘7 [Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">At the same time as African ….</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Americans in that part of the country.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Vote neg to reject the genocide of the 1AC.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thomas, 90</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Lois, //St. Petersburg Times//, “Genocide Still Threatens Native Americans”, 29 March, Lexis)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although the </span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;">genocide</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of the Jews has been eliminated, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">the ….</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> columnist is secretary-treasurer of the American Indian Issues and Action Committee in St. Petersburg.</span>





==2NC ACRL CP== 



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan is a prerequisite for Aff solvency and leads to the aff. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Barry '11</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">While advocates of an Alaska Canada rail ….</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> of railways to the hinterland and Canada-U.S. border. [10]</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan leads to the plan</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Barry '11</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This paper argues that **__construction and …. Lower 48 through Canada to Fairbanks.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
=<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**__CCS Neg__**</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>

==1NC== 

**TEXT: The United States federal government should pass a preemptive regulatory regime that** 
- **allows for CO2 pipelines to charge market-based rates despite the monopoly power of the pipeline**
- **provides customer protections that prevent the pipeline from taking advantage of monopoly power** 
- **grants eminent domain authority to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and allows it to implement and enforce the legislation.** 

**That solves the case---it’s what the 1AC solvency author actually advocates**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12****-**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the technology for capturing and ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and enforce the legislation</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Overview---2NC</span>__**</span></span>

**Second is that you should strongly err neg---this is the __conclusion__ to their 1AC solvency evidence**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conclusion</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In order to mitigate the most …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> harms caused by climate change</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Lack of federal regulation is what deters---it’s not the lack of investment**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To ensure private capital investments in CO<2> pipelines, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress must develop a regulatory framework that promotes the building of CO<2> pipelines</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, CCSReg, a collaborative effort led by Carnegie Mellon University that examines regulations for CCS, n85 stated, "</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Large-scale, commercial implementation of CCS will ... require ... further delineation of a CO<2> pipeline transportation regulatory regime</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">... </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to provide increased regulatory certainty</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for CO<2> pipeline infrastructure developers that will be necessary for widespread deployment of CCS</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." n86 Specifically, CCSReg notes that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">certainty in the regulatory regime would help facilitate project financing because project developers will be able to evaluate the regulatory risks</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> n87 As discussed below, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the absence of federal regulation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of CO<2> pipelines </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">creates the very uncertainty that would limit private investment</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n88</span>

==Overview---Uncertainty---2NC== 

**Regulation is __sufficient__ to solve---three reasons**

**__First__****, it solves __uncertainty__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby****, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. Problems with the Current System of CO<2> Pipeline Regulation </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The current lack of a federal </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the total future CO<2> transportation costs. n154</span>


**__Second__****, it prevents states from blocking**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The second major … recognized the possibility of a single state preventing the construction of necessary energy infrastructure.</span>__

**__Third__****, it ensures easily obtainable property rights**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The third major problem with the … **single states and landowners from stopping the construction of CO<2> pipelines.**</span>__


==Solvency---Market-Based Rates---2NC== 

**The CP solves---market-based rates creates incentives for investment**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">IV. __Proposal for a New Regulatory Scheme for CO<2> Pipelines__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To promote the construction of CO<2> pipelines, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… and allow the pipelines and customers to negotiate transportation rates across the entire pipeline</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Solvency---Eminent Domain---2NC== 

**Granting eminent domain authority solves---ensures adequate land**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C. Eminent Domain</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Regulatory legislation should grant the pipeline </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would promote settlement with landowners because landowners would be more likely to feel that they were receiving an adequate price for their property.</span>

==Solvency---FERC---2NC== 

**FERC solves best---experience**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cyrus </span>**Zarraby, 1AC Solvency Author, 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">J.D., expected May 2012, The George Washington University Law School; B.S., 2003, Clemson University, Chemical Engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network” The George Washington Law Review April, 2012 The George Washington Law Review 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">D. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as the Lead Agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because no federal agency currently has jurisdiction over CO<2> pipelines, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress …. it to lead in the area of CO<2> pipelines.</span>__