[[toc]]
=Nietzsche K (CPS RR)= 

==1NC== 

**The affirmative subscribes to the idea of the perfectible cosmos, which is no more than an illusion---it is impossible to end suffering, and even if it wasn’t we shouldn’t try to. Instead, we should recognize the inevitability of suffering to prevent it from dominating us**
**Kain 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phillip J. Professor of Philosophy @ Santa Clara University "Nietzsche and the Horror of Existence" The Journal of Nietzsche Studies Issue 33 Spring 2007 **We do not endorse the gendered language</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One might find all this unacceptable. After all, isn’t it just …. cannot be changed—it can only be concealed.</span>__


**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable because we live in a dangerous world. Efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions and the creation of WMDs---creates a self-fulfilling prophecy that turns the aff**
**Der Derian 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical …. **impossible guarantees**. It is a story of differences taking on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.</span>__


**And, there is no escape from the horror of existence. Therefore, we ask you to reject the affirmative’s idea of the “perfectible cosmos” to embrace the inevitability of what Nietzsche calls the “horrific cosmos.” Only then can we transform suffering into a productive force.** 
**Kain 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phillip J. Professor of Philosophy @ Santa Clara University "Nietzsche and the Horror of Existence" The Journal of Nietzsche Studies Issue 33 Spring 2007 **We do not endorse the gendered language</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At the center of Nietzsche’s vision lies his concept of the “terror and …. of man so far</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . . .” (BGE 225, 44; WP 957; GM II:7).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
=Jung K (CPS RR)= 
==1NC== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The aff’s attempt at enemy creation is an attempt to meld over what Jung calls the collective Shadow---this causes serial policy failure and turns the case </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hennelly 88</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Human Relations Institute, Santa Barbara “The Psychological Roots of Political and Ideological Violence: A Jungian Perspective” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 1988 13: 219 Sage</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Jung found that </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">it was through **psychological projection** </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> of your misfortune is outside, and not in your own attitude.”33 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The end result is __extinction__---it’s __try or die__---only voting neg to use Jungian psychoanalysis can solve the __root cause__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hennelly 88</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Human Relations Institute, Santa Barbara “The Psychological Roots of Political and Ideological Violence: A Jungian Perspective” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 1988 13: 219 Sage</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">One of the most threatening</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and seemingly intractable</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">….</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">political</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, social and economic </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">events</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">but in the inner world of image and symbol as well</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Intellectualization K (Pace RR)</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">1NC</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The intellectualization of the 1AC is no more than a projection of responsibility---the idea that they’ve come to a debate tournament and demanded political action is laughable and demonstrative of their delusions</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dodds 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Joseph, MPhil, Psychoanalytic Studies, Sheffield University, UK, MA, Psychoanalytic Studies, Sheffield University, UK BSc, Psychology and Neuroscience, Manchester University, UK, Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), and a member of several other professional organizations such as the International Neuropsychoanalysis Society, Psychoanalysis and Ecology at the Edge of Chaos p 48</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The split can</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> also </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">take … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">manageable and entertaining pseudo-environmentalism.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Every Symbolic order necessitates some forms of safe transgression, where the 1AC is no more than the fantasy that we’ve created to convince ourselves that we’re doing something good---a symbiotic relationship is created, with the 1AC’s criticism and the ideological order mutually reinforcing each other</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Stavrakakis 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Yannis Stavrakakis, Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, "SYMPOSIUM: FANTASY AND MARKETS: Beyond the Spirits of Capitalism? Prohibition, Enjoyment, and Social Change" Cardozo Law Review August, 2012 Cardozo Law Review 33 Cardozo L. Rev. 2289 </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, today, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the battle between … </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">-circuit present in such cases</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The affirmative functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the traditional patriarchal society, … precisely with the national thing</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">? </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The alternative is to psychoanalyze the 1AC---the fantasy will reveal itself as long as we continue asking questions to expose their concealment of the lack---in other words, it’s your job to confuse and frustrate them via a refusal to partake in their politics---this also crushes the permutation </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dean 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jodi, Prof of Political Science at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 2006, Zizek’s Politics. Xviii-xx</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Žižek emphasizes that Lacan conceptualized … </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">our experiences as ideological subjects</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>






==2NC McGowan== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The aff’s armchair activism is bad – it makes us complacent with the squo and makes us desire the problems of the 1ac to continue on</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">McGowan 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> PhD from Ohio State English Department (Todd, 2004, “Introduction: Psychoanalysis after Marx”, //End of Dissatisfaction? Jacques Lacan and the Emerging Society of Enjoyment//”, p. 192-4) MH</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The problem with the school uniform movement, as well as all of the other calls for a return to prohibition, is that, as the previous chapters have sought to demonstrate, widespread disobedience is not the problem. The problem with the society of commanded enjoyment—what constitutes its danger for us—is not ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> is, at the same time, the act of transcendence. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">To recognize one’s failure to enjoy is already to begin to enjoy. </span>

==2NC Alternative== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The alt is the ONLY way to overcome the phantasy---our framework uses the ballot to shock the aff into recognition---solves splitting </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fotaki 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Marianna Fotaki is Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) of health policy and organization studies in Manchester Business School "Maintaining the illusion of a free health care in post-socialism: A Lacanian analysis of transition from planned to market economy" Journal of Organizational Change Management22. 2 (2009): 141-158</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The framework I have proposed for this analysis has the lack of the divided ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the imaginary foundations of </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the ideology that intertwines with the symbolic.</span>__

==2NC Framework== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Unraveling the fantasy of the 1AC must be a prior question to the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Senior Researcher @ University of Ljubljana, __Contingency, Hegemony, Universality__ 124-127</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument to this ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> are not actually `doing the impossible', traversing the fantasy towards the Real. </span>__


==2NC Permutation== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The perm’s supplementing fails</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Stavrakakis 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Yannis Stavrakakis, Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, "SYMPOSIUM: FANTASY AND MARKETS: Beyond the Spirits of Capitalism? Prohibition, Enjoyment, and Social Change" Cardozo Law Review August, 2012 Cardozo Law Review 33 Cardozo L. Rev. 2289 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the current crisis seems to call for a renewed </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of jouissance and eventually [*2294] dealing directly with the type of social bond instituted by the "discourse of capitalism." n16</span>












=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Gender K (Emory)</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">1NC (vs GBN space elevators)</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative’s attempt at space exploration and development only reinforces patriarchy---their technostrategic discourse creates a gendered binary making conflict inevitable</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Griffin 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Department of Politics, University of Bristol, Panel on “Reading Outer Space” 3/25/2006, Penny Griffin, “The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space,” International Studies Association Conference in San Diego, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.bisa-ipeg.org/papers/19PennyGriffin.pdf|www.bisa-ipeg.org/papers/19PennyGriffin.pdf]]</span></span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is, of course, heavily … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">than on Earth?</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [emphasis added]’ (2004: 10).</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aff’s epistemological understanding of security is based on gendered threat construction—guarantees extinction </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tickner 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Ann professor at the School of International Relations USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">New issues and new definitions … beginning to undertake such reanalyses. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">That causes extinction---edited for language</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nhanenge 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Technology can be used to … these experts. (Kelly 1990: 112-114; Eisler 1990: 3233; Schumacher 1993: 20, 126, 128, 130). </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s gendered enframing of the world—simply the process of critique removes the ideological blinders inherent in policy-making. The permutation is doomed to failure b/c the starting point of the 1AC was profoundly militarized </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shepherd 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Laura J. Shepherd, Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies,” EBSCO</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As discussed above, ideas about … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">world</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalewski 1996, p. 352, emphasis in original).</span>



==2NC Overview== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This means everything they’ve said is wrong---epistemological issues come 1st---that’s Tickner and here’s </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tickner 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ann professor at the School of International Relations USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Does the fact that states’ </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">national-security policies ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> “scientific” is questionable. In other words, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">theories cannot be separated from political practice</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**



==2NC Framework== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First, beginning discussions at the intellectual level is more productive---it causes better social changes, takes the ideological blinders off of policy-makers, and </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">reclaims the political</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">---this is </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">empirically proven</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> by the end of the </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cold War</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">peace movements</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> in the 80s and the </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Intifada</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> in the Middle East that </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">can spillover globally</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">---this is also a reason why they don’t get their aff </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bilgin 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, __REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE__, p54-</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The point is that </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">a broader security agenda **requires students of security to ….**about security. Otherwise, they run the risk of **constituting ‘threats to the future’**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kubálková 1998: 193–201).</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The K comes first in the context of space---our investigation is key to education and policy formulation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Griffin 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Outer space is a conceptual, political and material space, a place for …. norms, 'may or may not be explicit'</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Butler 2004: 41).</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Their appeal to fiat is a link—it results in fetishization of the state that precludes interpersonal politics—this results in endless </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">structural violence</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> that </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">outweighs the</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">aff</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shepherd 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Laura J., Lecturer in IR and International Law @ U Birmingham, Gender, Violence and Security: Discourse as Practice, p 166-168</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fetishizing the state</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> as </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">a</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> form of </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">political authority</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">in this way </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">….</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of (international) **security and (gender) violence**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">under discussion here by institutionalizing efficiency, equality and empowerment. </span>





==2NC AT Perm== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The perm is the worst form of masculine violence—it simply “adds feminine criticism” as an afterthought—this naturalized the gendered parts of the plan as acceptable—that’s Shepherd—and,</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Peterson 4 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[V. SPIKE PETERSON is an associate professor in the Department of Political Science with courtesy appointments in Women’s Studies, Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies, and International Studies at the University of Arizona, “Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR,” Brown Journal of World Affairs WINTER / SPRING 2004 • VOLUME X, ISSUE 2]</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Attempts to rectify </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">the systematic exclusion of women and the ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to answer these questions, and in the process shed additional light on the questions posed by the editors. </span>



==2NC AT Essentialism== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t/ essentialism good</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Anderson 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Prof of women’s studies & philosoph @ Michigan, “Feminist Epistemology and Philosophy of Science”]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Criticisms of Feminist Postmodernism. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Both </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">key </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">features of feminist …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of social differentiation and embodiment**.**</span>





==2NC AT Experts== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Expertism and prediction are doomed---reject their scenario-planning</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jonah </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Goldberg 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> is a visiting fellow at AEI "Seduced by the Cult of Experts" Aug 30 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104068|www.aei.org/article/104068]]</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Seduced by the Cult of Experts It isn't surprising that</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …. so on--</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">are any better than</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> journalists or attentive readers</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of the New York Times in 'reading' emerging situations."</span>





==2NC AT Schmitt== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Kritik turns this impact—their evidence says lack of us/them dichotomy causes constant paranoia—the security state actively produces this paranoia to subjugate the population—this results in worse violence</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neocleous</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Prof of Gov, 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, //Critique of Security//, p117-]</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Eliding the distinction between military practice and </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">the everyday ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to be found: </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">one must never allow the system to‘run out of demons’</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.49</span>



==2NC AT Realism== 



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Realism wrong and adhering to it guarantees mass wars </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bilgin 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, __REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE__, p</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Presenting pictures of what a ‘desired’ future might look like, and …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> do not leave the world untouched</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">’</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>






=Psychoanalysis K= 

==**1NC**== 

**The aff’s call for transportation investment is not objective or neutral and is no more than a fantasy of control over the world in an attempt to provide ontological security---but the Symbolic creation and Imaginary representation of planning policies always fail because of the Lack---it is impossible to recapture the security of our lost primordial maternal fullness**
**Gunder & Hillier 9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Michael Gunder, Associate Professor, Associate Head Research & Postgraduate â€“ Planning at University of Auckland (New Zealand), and Jean Hillier, professor of Town and Country Planning at Newcastle University and Managing Editor of the international journal 'Planning Theory', __Planning in Ten Words or Less:__ A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning, p. 23-30</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To some degree most, or perhaps all, people</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">desire to be safe, secure and to have control</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…. between I995 and 2005 and subsequently played off against one another, in Sydney's case, primarily fot the attainment of success in the global economy (Gunder and Searle 2007; McGuirk 200-4, 2005, 2007).</span>


**And, the notion of security is a psychological construct---the aff’s scenarios for war and conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other and result in their extermination**
**Mack 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John E. Mack is a Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The **threat of**</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> nuclear annihilation</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … , contribute powerfully to the process. </span>

**Our alternative is to adopt the __role of the analyst__---transportation planning isn’t __objective__ or __neutral__---it is motivated by underlying structures of __ideology__ and __fantasy__ that can only be unraveled by the alternative**
**Gunder 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Gunder, a Senior planning lecturer in the School of Architecture and Planning at the University of Auckland, and is a past president of the New Zealand Planning Institute. He has a BA, MA and PhD in Planning. “Lacan, Planning and Urban Policy Formation.,” 22 Aug 2006 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0811114042000335287]]</span></span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The analyst’s discourse</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for Lacan </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">hegemonic American motorway cure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ARC, 2003).</span>

==1NC Security== 

**Security is a psychological construct—the aff’s scenarios for conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other**
**Mack 91**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University (John, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The threat of nuclear annihilation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … , contribute powerfully to the process.</span>

**Their paranoid projections guarantee extinction—it’s try or die**
**Hollander 3**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this sense, then, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">9-11</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">projective mechanisms and stimulates paranoia. </span>__

**Vote negative to interrogate cycles of enemy creation—this can create a fissure in dominant narratives that make war inevitable**
**Byles 3**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">—English, U Cyprus (Joanna, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification, http://www.clas.ufl.edu/ipsa/journal/articles/art_byles01.shtml</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is here of course … , most importantly, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a way of thinking</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>







==<span style="font-size: 11.111111640930176px; line-height: 17.77777862548828px;">Zizek---2NC</span>== 


**The leveraging of future catastrophes against present change allows massive ongoing violence in the present to stop a fantasy of violence in the future—staving off the apocalypse serves to create a coherent narrative that can explain the world while allowing its violence to continue unimpeded**

**Žižek 4**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Researcher at the Institute For Social Studies At Ljubljana, Winter 2004 Slavoj, “The Ongoing ‘Soft Revolution,’ Critical Inquiry 30.2, p. lion.chadwyck.com</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How to Live with Catastrophes </span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nowhere is today's resistance to … **, in a way, already took place.**</span>__


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shapiro---2NC</span>== 


**The affirmative’s conception of war as a policy of identification of enemies is flawed. They’re truly just attempting to determine their collective identity in contrast to a demonized Other. This perception is a flawed idea that simply leads to incomplete ideas of the self, which in turn spawns more ongoing conflict**

**Shapiro 97**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael Shapiro, 1997, Professor of International Relations, University of Hawaii, Violent Cartographies: Mapping Cultures of War</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet in his trinity passage, … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">order that defy this coherence</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>__


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accidents---2NC</span>== 


**Fear of accidents is based on the demarcation of an unruly outside to be disciplined and control---causes paranoia and war**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tan See </span>**Seng 2** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Head of Research for Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies, Singapore. PhD, What Fear Hath Wrought: Missile Hysteria and The Writing of “America”, July 2002, http://www.rsis.edu.sg/publications/WorkingPapers/WP28.PDF </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What the notion of the “… repetitive writing of political identity__.__ </span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China---2NC</span>== 


**The affirmative’s claims to how China will act and react to certain policies like the plan depends on a rationalization of China—this flawed positivist epistemology seeks to render all of the international arena knowable and predictable—the result is the inevitable emergence of a ‘China threat’ based on orientalization**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chengxin</span> **Pan 4**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prof school of international and political studies, Deakin U. PhD in pol sci and IR, “The "China threat" in American self-imagination: the discursive construction of other as power politics,” 1 June 2004, http://www.articlearchives.com/asia/northern-asia-china/796470-1.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having examined how the "China … States, with the "severe disproportion </span>


==China---2NC== 

**The affirmative’s claims to how China will act and react to certain policies like the plan depends on a rationalization of China—this flawed positivist epistemology seeks to render all of the international arena knowable and predictable—the result is the inevitable emergence of a ‘China threat’ based on orientalization**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chengxin</span> **Pan 4**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prof school of international and political studies, Deakin U. PhD in pol sci and IR, “The "China threat" in American self-imagination: the discursive construction of other as power politics,” 1 June 2004, http://www.articlearchives.com/asia/northern-asia-china/796470-1.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having examined how the "China threat" literature is enabled by and serves the …and exists mainly in and for the U.S. self. Little wonder that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">for</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">many U.S. China specialists, China becomes merely a </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"national</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">security concern</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" for the United States, with the "severe disproportion </span>

**If 1 person should be the basis for understanding a country’s motivations then they lose**
**Coonan 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clifford—writer for the Irish Times, 3/5/2011, “China says military build-up is no threat”, http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/world/2011/0305/1224291372866.html, accessed March 28, 2011, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CHINA IS planning to boost its defence spending by 12.7 per cent this….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> between national defence and economic development</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he told a news conference. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China tends to point to Washington’s massive annual military spend.</span>__

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disease---2NC</span>== 



**Disease = Link**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pereira 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—PhD candidate in International Politics and Conflict Resolution at the Centre for Social Studies, University of Coimbra, Portugal. (Ricardo, Processes of Securitization of Infectious Diseases and Western Hegemonic Power: A Historical-Political Analysis, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ghgj.org/Pereira_%20processes%20of%20securitization.doc|www.ghgj.org/Pereira_%20processes%20of%20securitization.doc]]</span>) </span>



<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Historically, public health intervention has</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Table 1 summarizes the main characteristics. </span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heg---2NC</span>== 


**Hegemony = self-fulfilling prophecy based on epistemologically tenuous assumptions and** **<span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span>** **war, genocide, collective suicide and extinction**

**Hoggett 4**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prof of politics and co-dir. of Center for Psycho-Social Studies, U West England. Degree in social psychology, U Sussex—AND—Dr. Simon Clarke—prof of psycho-social studies and co-dir. of the center The Empire of Fear: The American Political Psyche and the Culture of Paranoia, http://www.btinternet.com/~psycho_social/Vol5/JPSS5-PHSC1.htm</span>

__<span style="font-size: 3pt;">The image of Prometheus has often been used as a metaphor to describe the conjoining of capitalist and technological development,….</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">now</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">standsas the</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 3pt;">major</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">threat to </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">global society.</span>__**



**Your statistical data for heg/deterrence fails---too many complexities and varying interpretations---this evidence is so amazing that you should star it**

**<span style="color: #222222;">Bernstein</span>** **2k** **- et al****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">., </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Steven Richard Ned Lebow, Janice Gross Stein and Steven Weber</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">University of Toronto, The Ohio State University, University of Toronto </span>////<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and University of California at Berkeley</span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">European Journal of International Relations 2000; 6; 43.</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A deep irony is embedded … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in past or future time.5</span>

==Hollander---2NC== 

**Their projection of violence onto external scenarios for conflict absolve our responsibility in creating those threats---ensures their inevitability and causes extinction---try or die**
**Hollander 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nancy Hollander is a professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this sense, then, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">9-11 has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> symbolically </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">constituted a …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Segal believes that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">such denial only increases reliance on projective mechanisms and stimulates paranoia. </span>__

==Israel Strikes---2NC== 

**If we win our epistemology arguments, you have an obligation to refuse blackmail of Israeli strikes---this debate matters---they make a strike self-fulfilling prophecy**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chernus 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—prof of religious studies at UC Boulder (Ira, New York Times Hypes Israeli Attack On Iran, 1/29/12, www.huffingtonpost.com/ira-chernus/israel-iran-attack_b_1240510.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Bergman does cite some compelling arguments against an Israeli strike from former heads of Mossad (Israel's CIA). And …. not what the New York Times Magazine sees as its mission.</span>

==Iran---2NC== 

**Fear of Iran is based on externalization of threats that guarantees extinction**
**Zizek 5**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prof, Sociology, University of Ljubljana Give Iranian Nukes a Chance, http://www.lacan.com/zizekiranian.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">are nuclear arms in the hands of Iran's rulers ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> now plans to continue Saddam's work of toppling the Iranian government__.__ </span>

==Prolif---2NC== 

**Anti-proliferation discourse obscures Western violence and masks the dangers of nuclear possession—causes war and ignores the root cause of their impacts**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carol</span>**Cohn 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights, Felicity Hill, Peace and Security Adviser to the United Nations Development Fund for Women and is responsible for UNIFEM's Peace and Security Programme, and Sara Ruddick, prof at philosophy and women's studies at Eugene Lang College, “The Relevance of Gender for Eliminating Weapons of Mass Destruction”, The WMDC is an independent international commission initiated by the Swedish Government on a proposal from the United Nations. Its task is to present proposals aimed at the greatest possible reduction of the dangers of weapons of mass destruction, including both short-term and long-trm approaches and both non-proliferation and disarmament aspects. The Commission will issue its report in early 2006, http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No38.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Proliferation” is not a mere description or …. be difficult to justify on rational security grounds</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Soft Power---2NC== 

**Soft power is the velvet glove of hegemony’s iron fist- masks implicit racism and violence**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amy </span>**Kaplan**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof. of English @ Univ. of Pennslyvania, ‘</span>**3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American Quarterly 56.1, “Violent Belongings and the Question of Empire Today,” p. muse</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another dominant narrative</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> about empire today, told by liberal … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">have been made throughout history, from the treatment of Indians and slaves to the internment of Japanese Americans</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">during World War II</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**

==Space---2NC== 

**And, space fantasy is the culmination of the long western imperial project of organizing the world in its own image—space is merely the final frontier onto which the aff projects its fear of instability in an attempt at total control which creates the conditions for warfare and extinction**
**Brennan 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Teresa Brennan, 1993, Professor of at Cambridge, History After Lacan, 40-45</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the beginning, Lacan had asserted that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ‘lure of spatial … makes the ego fear (rightly) for its own</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">survival</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__
==Deterrence---2NC== 

**Deterrence is no more than an ideology based on a flawed methodology**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ron</span> **Hirschbein 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Peace Institute at California State University, Chico Amassing the Tropes p 104ff</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advocates of</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> automatic </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">deterrence are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> generally </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">….</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">attempts to liken the arsenal to a provocation can be neither confirmed nor disconfirmed.</span>__**


**<span style="background-color: white;">Deterrence fails to take into account psychological factors—only the alt solves </span>**
we don’t agree w/ gendered language
<span style="background-color: lime;">Kaplowitz 90</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">research associate in IR, institute of govt affairs, UC Davis, PhD pol sci, Columbia, Noel, National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations, Political Psychology, 11;1,. 39-82, JSTOR, Amiles</span>
__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Implicit in competitive and deterrent strategies are … and deterrent strategies, and will in any case add a sharp edge to them.</span>__


==Kagan---2NC== 

**<span style="color: #222222;">Kagan --> endless warfare</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Pringle, International Relations @ NYU, April 16</span>****<span style="color: #222222;">, 2012</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Joshua Pringle is a master's student of international relations at New York University as well as the senior editor of Worldpress.org. access 4/26/12 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.worldpress.org/Americas/3904.cfm]]</span></span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">In his article "Not Fade Away: ….</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> that the prosperity of all others relies on it is to egregiously misrepresent the hegemonic order.</span>__**


==Bilgin---2NC== 


**Appeals to short-term impacts fails---more important to vote for the neg’s structural changes**

**Bilgin 4**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Pinar IR @ Bilikent AND Adam David MORTON Senior Lecturer and Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice IR @ Nottingham“From ‘Rogue’ to ‘Failed’ States? The Fallacy of Short-termism” Politics 24 (3) p. Wiley Interscience</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Calls for alternative </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">approaches</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to … academy and policymaking communities alike. </span>


==Trade K---2NC== 

**Neoliberalism makes extinction inevitable—we control terminal impact uniqueness.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Korten 2</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">et al – David C. Korten, Nicanor Perlas, and Vandana Shiva, December 2002. BA in psychology from Stanford University, MBA and Ph.D. degrees from the Stanford Business School, former Associate Professor of the Harvard University Graduate School of Business, activists. “GLOBAL CIVIL SOCIETY: THE PATH AHEAD,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://davidkorten.org/CivilSocietyPathAhead]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">At the end of World War II, a series of national </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,,,,</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> hope that the conference might advance the cause of people and nature.</span>

**Prefer our evidence—historical and empirically analysis of the impact of free trade is more valuable than theoretical economics.**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Carmen </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gonzalez</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Spring </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. “Deconstructing the Mythology of Free Trade: Critical Reflections on Comparative Advantage,” Berkeley La Raza Law Journal 17.1, Ebsco.</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The critique </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">of comparative ,,,, and fertilizers, and depletion of local aquifers</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Our alternative is to rescript globalization to prioritize the poor above corporations. Globalization exists as a discourse circulating throughout political and academic circles—the alternative allows us to reshape the discourse of globalization and create beneficial outcomes.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kelly 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Philip F. , Fall 1999. Associate Professor of Geography at York University, Canada and previously with the Southeast Asian Studies Programme at the National University of Singapore. “The geographies and politics of globalization,” Progress in Human Geography 23.3, Ebsco.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To conclude this part of the discussion, four related points can ,,,</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of different outcomes</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Gibson-Graham, 1996: 145).</span>


==Nature K---2NC== 

**The unstable and constantly changing “nature” of the natural world produces anxiety for the perspective that seeks an eternal harmony and unchangable utopia – the response is to attempt to dominate and master that natural world by defining a single, immutable version of it**

**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Stavrakakis 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yannis Stavrakakis, Department of Gov’t at University of Essex, 2000, “On the Emergence of Green Ideology: the Dislocation Factor in Green Politics,” //Discourse Theory and Political Analysis,// eds: Howarth, Norbal and Stavrakais</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The field of </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">our relationship to nature is one</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">….</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;"> of normality are upheld</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">or even elevated, as if they remained intact</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**The affirmative’s premonitions of ecological Armageddon construct a fantasy of a natural world out of balance. This paranoic projection is only narcissism. The aff is sure that they must do something to save the world. In the meantime, they veil the radical complexity and chaotic processes of the external environment behind a façade of harmonious unity waiting to be realized. These fantasy formations have the deleterious consequence of making environmental politics seem a matter of grandiose political strategies, further distancing us from real changes in the socio-political fabric of society.**

**Swyngedouw 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dept of Geography, School of Environment and Development, Manchester University, 2006 Eirk, “Impossible “Sustainability” and the Post-Political Condition,” Forthcoming in: David Gibbs and Rob Krueger (Eds.) Sustainable Development, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.liv.ac.uk/geography/seminars/Sustainabilitypaper.doc]]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slavoj Žižek suggests in //Looking Awry// that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the current …. how can this be achieved, and what sort of natures do we wish to inhabit.</span>__





==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AT Permutation---2NC</span>== 


**The permutation’s attempt to reform and civilize security is doomed**

**Neocleous****, Prof of Gov, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, //Critique of Security//, 185-6]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The only way</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">out of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">enough to return the gift</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.143</span>

==AT Permutation (symb/real)---2NC== 

**The perm sustains the aff’s fantasy by preventing us from confronting the Real**
**Zizek 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversations with Zizek, 12-13</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> central issue is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of proximity; of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">maintaining a critical …. **supplement in** **today’s realpolitik**. </span>__
==AT Doesn't Apply to State---2NC== 

**Psychoanalysis does apply to groups such as the state**
**Kaplowitz 90**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Noel Kaplowitz is a research associate at the Institute of Governmental Affairs, University of California at Davis in International Relations National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations Political Psychology Vol. 11, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 39-82 JSTOR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How a People Sees Itself Robert Lane (1969, p. 1), in his work …. subsequently resisted in the social sciences. </span>

==AT Experts---2NC== 

**Expertism and prediction are doomed---reject their scenario-planning**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jonah </span>**Goldberg 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> is a visiting fellow at AEI "Seduced by the Cult of Experts" Aug 30 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104068|www.aei.org/article/104068]]</span></span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Seduced by the Cult of Experts It </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">….</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the New York Times in 'reading' emerging situations."</span>

==AT Cede the Political---2NC== 

**We solve---the alt leads to policy engagement**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Noel </span>**Kaplowitz 90**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a research associate at the Institute of Governmental Affairs, University of California at Davis in International Relations National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations Political Psychology Vol. 11, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 39-82 JSTOR</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conceptions of national interest comprise</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a third ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">knowledge can be used to **design policies more likely to make for constructive outcomes**.</span>__

==AT Owen/Pragmatism---2NC== 

**Owen concludes neg**
**Owen 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David, Reader in Political Theory at the University of Southampton “Reorienting International Relations: On Pragmatism, Pluralism and Practical Reasoning”, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 31, No. 3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first dimension concerns the relationship between … of the kind of challenge posed by postmodernists like Michael Shapiro and Rob Walker is to prevent us from becoming too readily bewitched.</span>

**Pragmatism looks at the world with rose-colored glasses---be skeptical of their invocation of problem solving at the expense of interrogating their security logic**
**McCormack, Lecturer in IR, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">TaraMcCormack is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster, Critique, Security and Power pp 42-46</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Problem-solving theory</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">then has two functions. It </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">serves as</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a … a distinction between facts and values. </span>


==AT Root Cause Focus Bad---2NC== 



**__This is a K of the aff__****---it says a confluence of factors make war inevitable---it proves the aff’s fantasy of stability can’t solve**

**Mythen & Walklate 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gabe Mythen is Principal Lecturer in Sociology at Manchester Metropolitan University, AND Sandra Walklate is Eleanor Rathbone Chair of Sociology at Liverpool University, Terrorism, Risk and International Security: The Perils of Asking 'What If?' 2008; 39; 221Security Dialogue, ESBSCO</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is extraordinarily dangerous to declare, as the Bush administration has …. of democracy are threatened. As Hudson (2003: 225) warns:</span>


==AT Falsifiability---2NC== 

**Falsification is an epistemically bankrupt standard---all theories of knowledge definitionally require axiomatic tautologies and then proceed with different methods of verification**
**Thiher 97**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Allen is Curator's Professor of French in the Department of Romance Languages, University of Missouri. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Power of Tautology: The Roots of Literary Theory</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> p 16</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is not</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> always easy to see if a statement</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> or series of …. adequacy of their results and recognize what the logician Willard Quine calls the possibility that multiple models may offer adequate explanations of the same empirical phenomena.1</span>

**And, our K is scientifically correct**
**Westen 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Drew, Department of Psychiatry Harvard Medical School, “The Scientific Legacy of Sigmund Freud Toward a Psychodynamically Informed Psychological Science,” Psychological Bulletin November 1998 Vol. 124, No. 3, 333-371s</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Although commentators</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> periodically </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">declare</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with the wrong kind of person (see Greenberg & Mitchell, 1983 ).</span>


==AT Framework---2NC== 

**__The judge should assume the position of an analyst__****---interrogating the aff’s psychological investment in the politics of the status quo should be a __prior question__ to their advantages and solvency claims---it’s not about what the neg does it’s about what the aff needs to do better**
**Žižek 2k**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Science (University of Ljubljana), 2000, Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, p. 124-127</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the fantasy towards the Real. </span>__


**Our framework is key to preventing __error replication__---examination of student’s personal values and motivations is __neglected__ in planning discussions---our K is key to better decision-making**
**Talvitie 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor emeritus, Chief Researcher, Aalto University School of Engineering, Finland</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Organization and institutions as creators of trust With a …. and a concept useful to the planning profession. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
==AT Framework (Dean)---2NC== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We don’t need an alternative besides our framework of analysis---the fantasy will reveal itself as long as we continue asking questions to expose their concealment of the lack---in other words, it’s your job to confuse and frustrate them via a refusal to partake in their politics---this crushes the permutation </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jodi, Prof of Political Science at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 2006, Zizek’s Politics. Xviii-xx</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Žižek emphasizes that Lacan conceptualized this excessive place, ….</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">our experiences as ideological subjects</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==AT Framework---1NR== 

**__The judge should assume the position of an analyst__****---interrogating the aff’s psychological investment in the politics of the status quo should be a __prior question__ to their advantages and solvency claims---it’s not about what the neg does it’s about what the aff needs to do better**
**Žižek 2k**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Science (University of Ljubljana), 2000, Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, p. 124-127</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument to this …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - that is to say; we are not actually `doing the impossible', traversing the fantasy towards the Real. </span>__

**Beginning discussions at the intellectual level is more productive---it causes better social changes, takes the ideological blinders off of policy-makers, and __reclaims the political__---this is __empirically proven__ by the end of the __Cold War__, __peace movements__ in the 80s and the __Intifada__ in the Middle East that __can spillover globally__---this is also a reason why they don’t get their aff**
**Bilgin 5**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, __REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE__, p54-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point is that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a broader security agenda **requires students of …** risk of **constituting ‘threats to the future’**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kubálková 1998: 193–201).</span>

**Our framework is key to preventing __error replication__---examination of student’s personal values and motivations is __neglected__ in planning discussions---our K is key to better decision-making**
**Talvitie 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor emeritus, Chief Researcher, Aalto University School of Engineering, Finland</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Organization and institutions as creators of trust With a degree of …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> phase in “re-educating” one’s ego ideal</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and how to evolve it to trust and a concept useful to the planning profession. </span>

**That’s key to preventing __serial policy failure__**
**Fotaki 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marianna Organization Studies Group, Manchester Business School, “Why do public policies fail so often? Exploring health policy-making as an imaginary and symbolic construction,” Organization 2010 17: 703, Sage, 713-716</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Towards an alternative conception of public policy-making So far, I have … being in organizations and society.</span>
=Subversive Ideology K (psycho module)= 

==1NC== 

**Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The affirmative functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate**
**Zizek 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925]</span>

__In the traditional patriarchal society, … precisely with the national thing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">? </span>


**Critiques uphold the existing system because they are a safe outlet for transgression, which is a necessary supplement to any system of power.**
**Zizek 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The proper way to approach "… , with a specific form of enjoyment).</span>


**Assume the position of the analyst to interrogate their libidinal desire to maintain the status quo**
**Žižek 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Researcher @ University of Ljubljana, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality 124-127</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I can also answer the … </span>__the fantasy towards the Real.__

==2NC Link== 
**Small acts of subversion (such as armchair ideological distance) make us more comfortable and therefor more invested in the political status quo.**
**McGowan 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> PhD from Ohio State English Department (Todd, 2004, “Introduction: Psychoanalysis after Marx”, //End of Dissatisfaction? Jacques Lacan and the Emerging Society of Enjoyment//”, p. 124-6) MH</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In response to the command to enjoy, </span>__…. the actual enjoyment that would break from the prevailing symbolic authority.__


==2NC Stavrakkakis== 
**<span style="color: #141413;">The affirmative’s utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be __impossible to realize__—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out. </span>**
**Stavrakakis, 99** (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).

__Our age is clearly an age of social fragmentation, …__<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">society as a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).</span>







=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environment K</span>= 
==1NC== 

**Environmental apocalypse rhetoric makes warming inevitable---creates apathy and denial that turn the case**

**Foust et al. 8** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Christina R. Foust, Assistant Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, et al., with William O. Murphy, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, and Chelsea Stow, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, 2008, “Global Warming and Apocalyptic Rhetoric: A Critical Frame Analysis of US Popular and Elite Press Coverage from 1997-2007,” Paper Submitted to the Environmental Communication Division of the National Communication Association Convention in San Diego, 11/20, p. 22-23</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elements of an apocalyptic frame … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">steps to resolve the issue. </span>__



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Quick-fix tech solutions fail and prioritizing climate change over other impacts creates a self-fulfilling prophecy that turns the case</span>**

**Crist 7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Eileen, Assistant Professor at the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Winter, “Beyond the Climate Crisis: A Critique of Climate Change Discourse,” Telos 141, Winter 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sts.vt.edu/faculty/crist/Beyond_the_Climate_Crisis.pdf|www.sts.vt.edu/faculty/crist/Beyond_the_Climate_Crisis.pdf]]</span></span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While the dangers of climate … **destruction of life on Earth**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**The alternative is to vote negative to reject an apocalyptic framing of climate change in favor of alternative frames that focus on human agency and responsibility---this is key to solvency**

**Foust et al. 8** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Christina R. Foust, Assistant Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, et al., with William O. Murphy, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, and Chelsea Stow, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, 2008, “Global Warming and Apocalyptic Rhetoric: A Critical Frame Analysis of US Popular and Elite Press Coverage from 1997-2007,” Paper Submitted to the Environmental Communication Division of the National Communication Association Convention in San Diego, 11/20, p. 22-23</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we hope to … **for dealing with climate change** </span>__
==__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**2NC Blame Game**</span>__== 


**__Blame game turn__****---environmental security causes the blame game—fear mongering means no one takes responsibility—we blame other countries and groups of people—this not only causes violence but prevents addressing the root cause and absolves individual responsibility**

**Trennel 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paul, Ph.D of the University of Wales, Department of International Politics, “The (Im)possibility of Environmental Security”</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most immediately striking mismatch … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">quest to address environmental issues</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Cooperation Turn</span>== 


**__Cooperation turn__****---securitizing the environment fails to address the root cause of the problem—the zero-sum mindset hinders transnational cooperation and causes conflict**



**Trennel 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paul, Ph.D of the University of Wales, Department of International Politics, “The (Im)possibility of Environmental Security”</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Secondly, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the zero-sum mindset … **likely to prove true solutions**</span>__

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Buell</span>== 


**The aff’s environmental apocalypticism causes the worst acts violence under the guise of security---turns the case and makes environmental collapse inevitable**

**Buell 3**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Frederick—cultural critic on the environmental crisis and a Professor of English at Queens College and the author of five books, From Apocalypse To Way of Life, pages 185-186</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looked at critically, then</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, crisis … ties to clearly</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">terminal “nature.”</span>__





=Affect K= 
<span class="foreign">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vote Negative to Affirm the Initial Interruption of the Other and Refuse their Rational Justifications for Action. </span>**</span>
<span class="foreign">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Forging an Ethical Bond to the Other First Depends on One’s Rupture of Our Previous Model of Thinking – The 1AC Only Continues the Logic of the Oppressor By Immediately Supplying Context and Political Prescriptions to Something that Otherwise Resists Context Altogether – At Issue Here is What Justifications Should We Use to Influence Policy. </span>**</span>
<span class="foreign">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zembylas, 2k8. </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Michalinos Zemylas, Assistant Professor of Education @ Open U. “Bearing Witness to the Ethics and Politics of Suffering” April Online @ SpringerLink) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">A critical approach to … their grounding in solidarity.</span>__**

<span class="foreign">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">What Makes their Affirmative a Radical Gesture toward the Status Quo is Not its Description or Rational Dissection of the Problem But Instead the Openness to “that Which Cannot Be Named” – We Call it the Obtuse Meaning - The Obtuse Meaning is that Which Resists Any Signification. We Ask You to Endorse the Cognitive Interruption of the Encounter with the Other. </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oxman, 2k10</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Elena Oxman, U of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. “Sensing the Image: Roland Barthes and the Affect of the Visual” Volume 39, Number 2, 2010. Issue 122. Project Muse. KC) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scientifically "disarmed," … **__produce a valuation?"__** (//RF// 284).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Affirmative Methodology is Faulty – We Can NOT Approach the Irrational through Pre-Defined Criteria – This Would Only Submit Experience to the Tyranny of Rationality – Instead We Need to Value the “Unknowable Encounter”</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gorelick</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Ph.D Candidate at SUNY Buffalo, **__2k8__**, [Nathaniel, “Imaginary Renditions: Terror, Torture and the Possibility of an Excessive Ethics in Literature,” //Theory & Event// 11:2 | Project Muse] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">On April 28, 2004, the popular …**__from a malevolent "them__**". </span>

=Econ K= 
==1NC== 

**Our first criticism is one of conflation---while economic growth might be good in the abstract, the way their impact evidence conflates economics with national security is bad---it causes mass violence under the guise of military subjugation---all who don’t conform to the economic order are slaughtered**
**Neocleous, Prof of Gov, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, //Critique of Security//, p95-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In other words, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">new … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">thus the politics of loyalty. </span>

**Our 2nd Links---their economic discourse serves to further the interests of the powerful---this causes structural violence and environmental destruction that turns the case**
**Nhanenge 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is today an increasing … for the present purpose. (Ekins 1992: 1). </span>


**Only our alternative can resolve this**
**Nhanenge 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These **premises are critically important**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">like environments</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and societies.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Norgaard 1994: 62, 70-73). </span>

**Also no impact**
**Miller 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Morris, Adjunct Professor of Administration at the University of Ottawa, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol 24 No 4]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of violence to abort another).</span>


**And, it disincentives military buildup**
**Bennett and Nordstrom 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [department of political science at Penn State, D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conflict settlement is also a distinct … </span>__economically with the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>


==Epistemology---2NC== 

**Be skeptical of their impact claims and assign their adv zero weight—western economic calculations actively exclude key epistemological questions, making their knowledge production meaningless**
**Nhanenge 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Schumacher (1993: 33) also found that economics … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic activities, are dismissed</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (Capra 1982: 196-198).</span>

==Democracy/VTL---2NC== 

**Fetishization of economic growth is based on an andocentric system of calculations that destroys VTL and makes true democracy impossible**
**Nhanenge 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The most meaningful elements in … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and natural values. (Des Jardins 2001: 56-60). </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">RC of War/Turns Coop---2NC</span>== 


**Fetisization of economic growth is the root cause of war---also turns cooperation**

**Nhanenge 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In spite of its ideological … drives men into conflict. (Schumacher 1993: 19-20, 25). </span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fear of Decline---2NC</span>== 


**Belief in economic growth generates constant fear of decline**—ensures war poverty environmental collapse extinction and loss of VTL

**Nhanenge 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Generation of wealth was an … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Others and nature, are presented</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

=**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate K v Bronx</span>**= 

==**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>**== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our first link is based off of their environmental representations---in the face of an ecological crisis, the affirmative has decided that the best way to respond is to bunker down, accept the inevitable, and try to make our infrastructure more resilient---this belief makes environmental destruction inevitable and abdicates our individual responsibility for the problem</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Crist 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Eileen, Assistant Professor at the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Winter, “Beyond the Climate Crisis: A Critique of Climate Change Discourse,” Telos 141, Winter 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.sts.vt.edu/faculty/crist/Beyond_the_Climate_Crisis.pdf|www.sts.vt.edu/faculty/crist/Beyond_the_Climate_Crisis.pdf]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Identifying climate change as the biggest threat</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to …. **ongoing destruction of life on Earth**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Judge should vote neg to reject those representations---instead of focusing solely on climate change, we should recognize our own individual responsibility for a litany of environmental problems</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust et al. 8</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Christina R. Foust, Assistant Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, et al., with William O. Murphy, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, and Chelsea Stow, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, 2008, “Global Warming and Apocalyptic Rhetoric: A Critical Frame Analysis of US Popular and Elite Press Coverage from 1997-2007,” Paper Submitted to the Environmental Communication Division of the National Communication Association Convention in San Diego, 11/20, p. 22-23</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we hope to inspire more …. **will for dealing with climate change** </span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, their claim that “trade solves every impact” abdicates our responsibility in contributing to the problem in the first place---governments can now let the “free market deal with it” and continue on with unsustainable practices </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Amitabh</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Tripathi 12** </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">CGA, Office of Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance, New Delhi, India “Globalization: Paradox, Apocalypse and Redemption-A Response to David Held” IUP Journal of International Relations; Apr2012, Vol. 6 Issue 2, p7-20, 14p</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The character of</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> this ‘global speak’is …. **with collective issues****, and use globalization as a proxy.**</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is specifically true in the context of the 1AC---they’ve advanced the claim that “trade solves every impact”---really? Yes, trade might have it’s benefits – but let’s all be clear here – trade isn’t perfect, and the ignorance of the structural inequalities created by trade leadership masks the suffering of millions </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Korten 2</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">et al – David C. Korten, Nicanor Perlas, and Vandana Shiva, December 2002. BA in psychology from Stanford University, MBA and Ph.D. degrees from the Stanford Business School, former Associate Professor of the Harvard University Graduate School of Business, activists. “GLOBAL CIVIL SOCIETY: THE PATH AHEAD,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://davidkorten.org/CivilSocietyPathAhead]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">At the end of World War II, a series of national </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">liberation movements freed the …, free trade, and privatization are the keys to growth</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">. They did not achieve all their aims in Johannesburg, but they dealt a serious blow to the hope that the conference might advance the cause of people and nature.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A negative ballot is key to rescripting globalization to prioritize the poor above corporations. Globalization exists as a discourse circulating throughout political and academic circles---the alternative allows us to reshape the discourse of globalization and create beneficial outcomes </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kelly 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Philip F. , Fall 1999. Associate Professor of Geography at York University, Canada and previously with the Southeast Asian Studies Programme at the National University of Singapore. “The geographies and politics of globalization,” Progress in Human Geography 23.3, Ebsco.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To conclude this part of the discussion, four related points can be made. First, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">globalization must be ….</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> invite many different actors to participate in the realization of different outcomes</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Gibson-Graham, 1996: 145).</span>


[insert some psycho cards here]

==2NC Conflation K== 

**The 1ac securitizes the poor---their attempt to emancipate through fear leads to calculus of necessity killing and endless warfare---turns the case**
**Dillon and Reid 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professors of Politics and International Relations[Michael—Prof of Politics @ Lancaster University and Julien Professor of International Relations, University of Lapland, __The Liberal Way of War: Killing to Make Life Live__, pg 88-89]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By such mechanisms, and according to such imperatives, liberal biopolitics …. Its global assay or audit of life is thus an emergency audit.</span>

==2NC Trade K== 

**Globalization discourse benefits the powerful --> global income inequality**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Amitabh</span> **Tripathi 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">CGA, Office of Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance, New Delhi, India “Globalization: Paradox, Apocalypse and Redemption-A Response to David Held” IUP Journal of International Relations; Apr2012, Vol. 6 Issue 2, p7-20, 14p</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disjunctures and Solutions These collective issues, Held argues, are being …. is only about competition from China and India? </span>

**Their globalization discourse is told from the standpoint of the dominant---it displaces agency and makes their impacts inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Amitabh</span> **Tripathi 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">CGA, Office of Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance, New Delhi, India “Globalization: Paradox, Apocalypse and Redemption-A Response to David Held” IUP Journal of International Relations; Apr2012, Vol. 6 Issue 2, p7-20, 14p</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conclusion It would be a truism to suggest that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">individuals, social … politics. To think otherwise is to disregard the political realities of our times. </span>__


==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Daly </span>== 

**The impact outweighs—you have an ethical obligation to reject their traditional utilitarian rationale in favor of stopping massive suffering that can’t be quantified within their framework**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Daly 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—and Zizek Professor at the University of Ljublijana and general badass; Zizek’s homeboy and senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, 2004 (Slavoj, Conversations with Zizek Polity Press, 14-16)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">For Zizek </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">it is imperative</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol and </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> not attempt to conceal this fact or reduce the status of the abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix. </span>


==2NC Turns Neolib/Katrina== 

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">T</span>he aff subordinates the state to the mechanisms of capital and growth: this ensures authoritarian politics will results in more disposable bodies, not less—Katrina is a symptom, not a cause.
**__Giroux 10__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Henry A. Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department.t r u t h o u t, Living in the Age of Imposed Amnesia: The Eclipse of Democratic Formative Culture, 11-16, http://archive.truthout.org/living-age-imposed-amnesia-the-eclipse-democratic-formative-culture65144</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The financial elite scorn the social costs of their actions; they focus … __as a collective aspiration.__</span>


==2NC Consumption 1st== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">You should prioritize the question of consumption over production---the focus on the latter obscures the former</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Princen 3</span>** Thomas Princen, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy in the School of Natural Resources and Environment at the University of Michigan, where he also co-directs the Workshop on Consumption and Environment, "Principles for Sustainability: From Cooperation and Efficiency to Sufficiency," Global Environmental Politics 3.1, 2003, p. 33-50
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Global timber harvesters are squeezing more and more fiber out of a hectare of forest and yet deforestation proceeds unabated. The automobile and petrochemical industries are creating more …</span>**__, using up__**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, diminishing regenerative capacity, engendering irreversibilities </span>**__and non-substitutabilities.__**<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> 3 Global water management illustrates the need for such a focus. </span>