= = 
[[toc]]
=Inland Waterways - Exports Leadership Advantage (Quarters @ Cal)= 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 2 is export leadership</span>**

**The plan is both __necessary__ … __network for the 21 st Century.__**

**Waterways are also key to overall power projection**
**Jackson 7** Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United …
__Contributions of … **the public radar.**__

**Hard … power most __effectively__ maintains dominance**
**Bremmer 10** Ian, president of Eurasia Group and author of “The End of the Free Market” (Portfolio), published in May, China vs America: fight of the century22nd March 2010 — Issue 169, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/
__It is__ also __important for … India a great deal of money.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Kagan, senior fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings. His most recent book is[[http://knopf.knopfdoubleday.com/2012/02/08/the-world-america-made-by-robert-kagan/|The World America Made]]. Dr. Kagan also serves as a member of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Foreign Affairs Policy Board and is co-chairman of the bipartisan Working Group on Egypt. He writes a monthly column on world affairs for the Washington Post, and is a contributing editor at both the Weekly Standard and The New Republic, “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN, 3-14-2012, Online</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(CNN)</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We take a lot … American order</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> came into being.</span>

**Aging waterway infrastructure decimates US competitiveness – modernization is key to export-based leadership**
**Martin 9** Cornel Martin, President of … **__a world leader is in jeopardy.__**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Economic Decline Increases the Risk of War—Strong Statistical Support. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span class="Underline">periods … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**An increase in global trade … and inadequate and __decimate__ exports**
**Gibbs, 4/18** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bob, Chairman of house committee on transportation and infrastructure, subcommittee on water resources and environment, Committee Hearing, Lexis) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this Committee hearing, </span>__we're …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">any comments you may have. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trade leadership solves conflict escalation</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Panitchpakdi, 4</span> (Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, 2/26/2004, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second point is that </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by the absence of rules.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Increasing exports is key to solve the trade deficit and sustain growth</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Istrate et al 10</span> (Emilia, Senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]] )
<span class="Underline">Exports Could Contribute to the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">its distance from trading partners. </span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Maintaining a trade balance also prevents protectionism</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hufbauer et. al. 2010</span> (Gary, Former Senior Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations, Author of multiple books on international trade, Peterson Institute for International Economics, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession”, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The U.S. unemployment rate more than … </span>//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">future new instances of U.S. protectionism8.</span>__**//

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That causes nuclear war </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Panzner 8</span> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
<span class="Underline">Continuing calls for curbs on … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">beginnings of a new world war.</span>







=J.A.R.C - Semis of Cal & Lexington= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan Text</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transit inequality Contention</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1 is Transit inequality</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Status Quo infrastructure investment focuses solely on profit maximization – current neoliberal practices make social exclusion inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Farmer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wogan 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama said … </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A lack of infrastructure severely damages low-income minority communities – the neoliberal city makes combating resource disparities impossible and masks militarism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grengs 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation apartheid also makes environmental justice unachievable – a focus on combating funding disparities couples environmental justice with race-based politics.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation – this allows for a more effective engagement with the political sphere. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chen 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That’s necessary for environmental justice – the alternative is mass suffering</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Collin & Collin 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, covert and institutionalized … of exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We have an obligation to end exclusion – it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Duarte 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ethics</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2 is ethics </span>**

**New transportation policies are necessary to break down the institutional and structural racism that pervades the status quo---only placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus can break-down inequality** 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JCPES 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic … </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">facilitate real</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and lasting equity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Providing millions access to jobs is good and ethical---the rejection of them reifies racism. The plan is the only way to begin to attempt inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gardner, Prof. @ DePaul, 2009 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Joby Gardner, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Leadership, Lan- guage, and Curriculum, School of Education, DePaul University. His research focuses on the transition to adulthood among marginalized youth, particularly incarcerated youth and high school returners, and the social roles created by and for these youth in postindustrial, democratic societies. //Urban Education// 2010 45: 75 DOI: 10.1177/0042085909352150, http://uex.sagepub.com/content/45/1/75]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">W**__hy should one make an … on young people’s positive inclinations.9__**</span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC’s highlighting of the fundamental racialized character of current transportation politicizes infrastructure policy, allowing us to redefine the meaning of urban space and the ideas of belonging and exclusion. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Douglas __Young, professor of political …__ , Cities Volume 27, Issue 2, April 2010, Pages 87–95)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Transit justice</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, i.e. overcoming the class–… of society as a whole”</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Cass, </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">2005, p. 553), we believe that </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">bringing … needs of mobility and access.</span>__








=J.A.R.C - Emory= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan Text</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transit Inequality Contention</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1 is Transit Inequality</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Status Quo infrastructure investment focuses solely on profit maximization – current neoliberal practices make social exclusion inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Farmer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wogan 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The program won't even exist soonno money is obligated to go that specific purposeprogram itself is gone 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – candidate, Barack Obama said he would double the money going to the federal Jobs Access and Reverse Commute program (July 21st, Initials)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a . What does the program do? … rate this a Promise Broken. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A lack of infrastructure severely damages low-income minority communities – the neoliberal city makes combating resource disparities impossible and masks militarism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grengs 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation inequality relegates millions to the periphery of society – current exclusion causes countless to die because of exposure to carcinogens and pollutants – a focus on combating funding disparities couples race-based politics with health issues</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan is key to coalitions to challenge transportation inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chen 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We have an obligation to end exclusion – it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Duarte 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Impact Framing Contention</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2 is Impact Assessment </span>**

**New transportation policies are necessary to break down the institutional and structural racism that pervades the status quo---only placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus can break-down inequality**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JCPES 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic … </span>//<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">facilitate real</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and lasting equity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Predictions of international actors fail – we can’t adequately map out actions or responses</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tetlock & Gardner 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Philip Tetlock is a professor of organizational behavior at the Haas Business School at the University of California-Berkeley, AND Dan Gardner is a columnist and senior writer for the Ottawa Citizen and the author of The Science of Fear, received numerous awards for his writing, including the Michener Award, M.A. History from York, "OVERCOMING OUR AVERSION TO ACKNOWLEDGING OUR IGNORANCE" July 11 [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Each December, The Economist forecasts the coming year in a special issue called The World in Whatever-The-Next-Year-Is. It’s avidly read around the world. …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The editors may regret that </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The risk of great power nuclear war is extremely low</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tepperman 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A growing and compelling body … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">suggests they have a death wish.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Subsequently, low probability should be no probability – try or die logic promotes serial policy failure</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sunstein 2</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Cass, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago, Law School and Department of Political Science, Probability Neglect: Emotions, Worst Cases, and Law, http://www.yalelawjournal.org/pdf/112-1/SunsteinFINAL.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">If someone is predisposed to … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">risk is taken in isolation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Obsession with short-time frame impacts obscures ongoing violence that doesn’t fit neatly within conventional temporal frames </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Nixon 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">When</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lawrence </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Summers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then president … </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">routinely ignore ongoing, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">belated casualties.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The fear of public backlash also dissuades conflict escalation – empirically proven</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wittner, 2k9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Lawrence S. Wittner, Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany, “What Has Prevented Nuclear War?” 7/6/09, Online)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">An alternative explanation for nuclear … that nuclear weapons have done so? </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Structural violence outweighs on magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hintjens 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neither natural nor inevitable</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span>







=J.A.R.C - MBA= 

==New 2AC T== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mass transit is transportation infrastructure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">American Jobs Act 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Submitted by Congressman Larson, H.R. 12, September 21, 2011, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr12ih/pdf/BILLS-112hr12ih.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Subtitle E—</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Immediate Transportation Infrastructure ….</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> project 15 conducted using funds provided under this subtitle.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This means that the aff is T </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">South Carolina General Assembly 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">General Bill Sponsors: Reps. McLeod, Herbkersman, Funderburk and Taylor introduced may 29, 2007 http://www.scstatehouse.gov/sess117_2007-2008/bills/4162.htm </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">TO AMEND THE CODE OF LAWS OF SOUTH CAROLINA, 1976, BY ADDING SECTION 57-3-45 SO AS TO ESTABLISH THE SOUTH CAROLINA MASS TRANSIT ADVISORY COMMISSION AND PROVIDE FOR ITS MEMBERSHIP, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES, AND TO PROVIDE THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SHALL PROVIDE STAFF AND OTHER SUPPORT FOR THE COMMISSION.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Whereas, transporting people in South Carolina is …. by the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Federal government concludes JARC is Topical</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">May 26, **FTA 11** *Federal Transit Administration, “FACT SHEET Job Access and Reverse Commute Program (JARC) Section 5316”, Department of Transportation, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.scirpdc.com/Downloads/jarc_Fact_Sheet.pdf]]</span>, DOA 10/26/12, RI</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Job Access grants</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> are intended to **develop transportation …. that use mass transportation services**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And---it’s only PUBLIC infrastructure---solves limits args</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Musick 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this …. Corps of Engineers following</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Hurricane </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Katrina</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in 2005).</span>

==<span class="Underline">Plan Text</span>== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.**

==Transit Inequality Contention== 
**Contention 1 is Transit Inequality**

**Status Quo infrastructure investment focuses solely on profit maximization – current neoliberal practices make social exclusion inevitable.**
**Farmer 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled**
**Wogan 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama said … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**A lack of infrastructure severely damages low-income minority communities – the neoliberal city makes combating resource disparities impossible and masks militarism.**
**Grengs 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Transportation apartheid also makes environmental justice unachievable – a focus on combating funding disparities couples environmental justice with race-based politics.**
**Hoang 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation – this allows for a more effective engagement with the political sphere.**
**Chen 7** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span>

**That’s necessary for environmental justice – the alternative is mass suffering**
**Collin & Collin 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, covert and institutionalized … of exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>**</span>

**We have an obligation to end exclusion – it causes the worst forms of state-based violence**
**Duarte 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**
**Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns**
**Hoang 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

==Impact Framing Contention== 
**Contention 2 is Impact Assessment**

**New transportation policies are necessary to break down the institutional and structural racism that pervades the status quo---only placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus can break-down inequality**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JCPES 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic … </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">trajectory to achieve racial equity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Design Lab 14 provides an important opportunity for peer networking and collaborative learning across PLACE MATTERS communities. Based on team progress, ongoing PLACE MATTERS work and the current national climate, CommonHealth ACTION and the Joint Center Health Policy Institute have developed plenary sessions and interactive exercises to explore and build strategies that address structural racism, particularly in the realm of policy. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Operational Definitions of Racism </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">One goal of this concept paper is to ground participants in a common language and the definitions that will support effective discussion of these challenging topics. While there are numerous definitions for each concept, we ask that you keep these definitions in mind when reading the concept paper and throughout your Design Lab conversations—even if they are different than your past learning, understanding, or current perceptions. This is not to say that one belief or understanding is more “correct” than another, but that these are the definitions that will frame this Place Matters dialogue on structural racism and support concepts within the Design Lab framework. In fact, it would be useful for you to think about the differences between the definitions we provide and your own beliefs. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">First, it is important to recognize that we are talking about racism, not race. Race is “a social construct that artificially divides people into distinct groups based on characteristics such as physical appearance (particularly color), ancestral heritage, cultural affiliation, cultural history, ethnic classification, and the social, economic, and political needs of a society at a given period of time” (Adams, Bell, & Griffin, 1997). Racism is a “ system of privilege based on race” (Wellman, 1977). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Working definitions for Design Lab 14: </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Racism (VISIONS): </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Personal Racism: individual attitudes, regarding the inferiority of people of color and the superiority of Whites, that have been learned or internalized either directly (e.g. negative experiences or explicit messages) or indirectly (e.g. imitation and modeling of significant others' reactions, emotional responses to the media; exposure to broad racial disparities). These attitudes may be conscious or unconscious and are learned from exposure to racism at primarily the institutional and cultural levels. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Interpersonal Racism: actions that perpetuate inequalities on the basis of race. Such behaviors may be intentional or unintentional. Unintentional acts may be racist in their consequence. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Institutional Racism: established laws, customs, traditions, and practices that systematically result in racial inequalities in a society -- the institutionalization of personal racism. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Cultural Racism: the individual and institutional expression of the superiority of one race's cultural heritage and values over that of another (Bryant, 2008). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Structural Racism describes the ways in which history, ideology, public policies, institutional practices, and culture interact to maintain a racial hierarchy that allows for the privileges associated with ”whiteness” and the disadvantages associated with color to endure and adapt over time. The structural racism framework takes a step back from institutional racism, and recognizes the racialized cultural and historical context in which institutions and individuals are unavoidably embedded (Lawrence, Sutton, Kubisch, Susi, & Fulbright-Anderson, 2004). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Four domains and systems of Privilege (Alan Johnson): </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Dominance: the default is for power to be held by the dominant group (whites, men, etc.); therefore, most power is held by privileged groups. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Obsession with control: control over dominant and subordinate groups is necessary to maintain systems of privilege. Dominant groups use the perception of their greater capacity for control to justify their superior position and related privilege. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Identification: the dominant group is “the standard” and superior; subordinate groups are “the other.” What is associated with the dominant group is positively valued in the culture, including control and power. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Centeredness: In media coverage, conversation, meetings, etc., members of the dominant group are placed at the center of attention (Johnson, 2006). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Privilege and Structural Racism </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Before addressing structural racism, we must discuss what allows it to persist throughout our ideology, our culture, and our public policy decisions: privilege. Privilege allows us to attribute positive outcomes solely to individual actions, and vice-versa with negative actions, without acknowledging the context in which a person grows up and lives their life. By focusing on individual attributes as the reason for success or failure, we are not having an honest conversation about what precedes those individual actions. Opportunities arise throughout an individual’s life, but it is in the unfair distribution of opportunity, and the preparedness to seize the opportunity, that we see the evidence of structural racism. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Structural Racism: A Systems Perspective </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Privilege allows structural racism to … progress through this first example. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Similar to today, the Great Depression created many challenges and opportunities. Many people needed help to secure capital to purchase a home and begin the process of creating generational wealth. However, the benefits of homeownership were not experienced by all segments of the population due to racially discriminatory practices. In a time when everyone needed help to purchase a home, people in certain areas were barred from obtaining loans. These discriminatory practices, adopted from individual property holders influenced commercial mortgage lenders and the Federal government. Property holders promoted segregation in housing through the use of racial covenants. Validated in 1926 by the Supreme Court, racial covenants were put into practice to keep specific blacks, Hispanics, Asians, and Jews out of white neighborhoods. Research of King County, WA in 2005 found 416 deeds that still contained racially restricting language (Lind). Many of these covenants confined minority populations to neighborhoods inside of central cities. Here we can see how privilege perpetuated structurally racist policies. Privilege allowed whites to make racial covenants, and allowed lenders to adopt the practice without questioning the validity or implications. This created a policy environment in which loans were not made available in areas with predominantly black or other minority populations. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">White privilege allowed discriminatory attitudes … </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">color were pushed into poverty</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">In addition to the aforementioned housing and transportation policies, what happens when a policy is introduced to fund public schools based on property taxes raised from local school districts? Districts receive money from the state, and then are able to exercise local control over additional funds for their schools. However, when this policy is implemented within a structurally racist context, the policy itself may result in harmful racial bias. This is a real world example that can be seen in the Supreme Court case, San Antonio v. Rodriguez. The plaintiffs used two neighborhoods in the San Antonio metro area to demonstrate the disparity in school funding. The Edgewood neighborhood had a population that was 90% Hispanic and 6% African American. It also had the highest property tax rate in the metro area, yet it generated only $356 per student ($26 coming from tax revenue). In contrast, Alamo Heights, a northern inner-ring suburb, whose population was 18% Hispanic and 1% African American, generated $594 per pupil, with $333 coming from tax revenue. The Supreme Court ruled in favor of the defendants, citing that the policy itself was not discriminatory in nature (Sutton, 2008). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Sometimes, we do not have to investigate the historical context of a policy to understand its racial implications. One such example is the practice of redlining. It is also an unfortunately useful example to show how disadvantage can accumulate across time. The presence of historically racist lending policies laid the foundation for the relatively recent phenomenon known as “reverse redlining”. Reverse redlining led communities of color to be some of the hardest hit by the economic and housing crises. In 1933, the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) was created to regulate the housing industry and increase homeownership. Areas were rated based on lending risk, with “high-risk” communities outlined in red. Areas that had a high proportion of black residents were labeled as “high-risk.” This practice was not based in any type of official mandate, but was adapted from commercial mortgage lenders that were influential in the policy creation process. This exemplifies that even when institutions do not explicitly discriminate, practices based on discrimination can work their way into policies, creating structural barriers to opportunity. Over time, other bills were passed that should have alleviated the disadvantage faced by blacks, such as the GI Bill, but because they were passed into a structurally racist environment they did not achieve their goal, and in fact helped to reinforce the two worlds of privilege for whites and disadvantage for people of color (Wessler, 2009). </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This foundation of structurally racist housing policy led to chronic disinvestment in areas that had a majority black population. It was in this environment that the Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed. The Act was a de-regulatory bill that allowed financial institutions to offer products and services within one company (e.g., savings and investments) that prior to that was not allowed. Industry advocates supported this policy because it allowed them to consolidate their services instead of needing to establish different companies to offer specific products and services. This bill virtually eliminated consumer protections by permitting collaborations between banks, securities firms, and insurance companies. These newly consolidated institutions were able to lend money, and were exempt from previous laws constructed to prevent discriminatory and predatory lending. Taking full advantage, banks and other entities began to sell subprime mortgages heavily targeted at communities of color that had been distressed by decades of disinvestment (Wessler, 2009). Here we can see the inequitable distribution of benefits and burdens. Blinded by white privilege, the authors of the Act saw the opportunity to accumulate vast amounts of wealth, at the expense of those already facing substantial burdens. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The Bush-era tax cuts, the dismantling of the estate tax, and the recent continuation of tax cuts for the wealthy, implicitly promote white advantage. Any policy in which the benefits are not equally distributed should raise a red flag for advocates and warrant further examination. When it comes to tax cuts such as these, the people receiving the benefits are overwhelmingly white. As a result, wealth becomes even more concentrated at the top, government revenues are reduced, leaving those who depend on government services, overwhelmingly people of color, struggling to survive. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Your Call to Action on Structural Racism </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Through these examples, we can … </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">facilitate real</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and lasting equity</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Predictions of international actors fail – we can’t adequately map out actions or responses**
**Tetlock & Gardner 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Philip Tetlock is a professor of organizational behavior at the Haas Business School at the University of California-Berkeley, AND Dan Gardner is a columnist and senior writer for the Ottawa Citizen and the author of The Science of Fear, received numerous awards for his writing, including the Michener Award, M.A. History from York, "OVERCOMING OUR AVERSION TO ACKNOWLEDGING OUR IGNORANCE" July 11 [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/]]]</span>

__Each December, The Economist forecasts the coming year in a special issue called The World in Whatever-The-Next-Year-Is. It’s avidly read around the world. But then, like most forecasts, it’s forgotten.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The editors may regret that … </span>__predicted more of the same.__

**Previously Note---deterrence also makes great power wars obsolete**
**Tepperman 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A growing and compelling body … </span>__suggests they have a death wish____.__

**Subsequently, low probability should be no probability – try or die logic promotes serial policy failure**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sunstein 2</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Cass, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago, Law School and Department of Political Science, Probability Neglect: Emotions, Worst Cases, and Law, http://www.yalelawjournal.org/pdf/112-1/SunsteinFINAL.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">If someone is predisposed to … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">risk is taken in isolation.</span>

**Obsession with short-time frame impacts obscures ongoing violence that doesn’t fit neatly within conventional temporal frames**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nixon 10</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">When</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lawrence </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Summers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then president … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">routinely ignore ongoing, belated casualties.</span>

**The fear of public backlash also dissuades conflict escalation – empirically proven**
**Wittner, 2k9** (Lawrence S. Wittner, Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany, “What Has Prevented Nuclear War?” 7/6/09, Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An alternative explanation for nuclear … that nuclear weapons have done so? </span>

**Structural violence outweighs on magnitude**
**Hintjens 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neither natural nor inevitable</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span>







=Inland Waterways Nuclear Power Advantage - Broken @ Quarters Glenbrooks= 

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Super-storms like Sandy are inevitable and our waterway infrastructure is unprepared for </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">high water levels</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">—the result is </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">mass flooding</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;"> of aging nuclear power plants </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">UPI 11/1/12 [[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2012/11/01/US-nuclear-energy-safety-questioned/UPI-95521351786427/|U.S. nuclear energy safety questioned]],[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2012/11/01/US-nuclear-energy-safety-questioned/UPI-95521351786427/]]nrbontha]</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">"__This is like the **…**, **which Mark I doesn't have**__."</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Risk of dam and lock __failure is too high__—resulting floods will devastate crucial back-up systems and cause __nuclear meltdowns__</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">UCS 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">[Union of Concerned Scientists, October 2012, Dam Failures and Flooding at U.S. Nuclear Plants, [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nuclear_power/floods-from-dam-failure-10-19-12.pdf]], nrbontha]</span>



__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear reactors … of large dams</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, with heights of 40 feet or more.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">TWO IMPACTS—</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">First, nuclear meltdowns cause __extinction__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lendman </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">.(Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13,</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">On March 12, … __parts of South America.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, meltdowns collapse the overall US nuclear industry—uncertainties with nuclear power make the impact __highly likely__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">USA TODAY 12/12/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants, [[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1]], nrbontha]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">There's never … __disaster serves as a reminder that,__ </span>[[@http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/story/2011-09-21/us-learns-from-fukushima-nuclear-plant/50501582/1|__in nuclear power__]]__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, there's **zero margin for major error**.</span>__

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Collapse of the nuclear power industry causes a shift to fossil fuels—the impact is warming</span>**
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Loudermilk 11</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Micah J., Research Associate for the Energy & Environmental Security Policy program with the Institute for National Strategic Studies at National Defense University, Contracted through ASE Inc, //Small Nuclear Reactors and US Energy Security: Concepts, Capabilities, and Costs//, May 31st, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.ensec.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=314:small-nuclear-reactors-and-us-energy-security-concepts-capabilities-and-costs&catid=116:content0411&Itemid=375]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear vs. Alternatives: a realistic picture When discussing the energy security … benefit from diversification and expansion of the nation’s nuclear energy portfolio.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Independently, expanded coal use causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies [James Hansen (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” __The Observer__, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal] </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">A year ago, I wrote to Gordon …if carbon dioxide rose another 100 ppm.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear power offers significant advantages over all alternative options. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Armond, Co-founder and Executive Director of the Clean Air Task Force, Actively involved in CATF projects focusing on Arctic stabilization, low carbon technology innovation and coal transition, Armond led the Conservation Law Foundation's Energy Project starting in 1983, Graduate of Brown University and Harvard Law School, Served as judicial clerk for the late Harlington Wood, Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 1982-1983, Published numerous articles on climate, energy, and air pollution, and speaks and testifies frequently on these topics, Member of the Keystone Energy Board and US EPA's Clean Air Act Advisory Committee, //Decarbonization: The Nuclear Option//, February 13th, http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/02/is-america-poised-for-nuclear.php)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Three years ago, __…__ despite its genuine challenges, cannot be left off the table.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Warming is real</span>****<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> and anthropogenic</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nuccitelli 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Dana Nuccitelli is an environmental scientist at a private environmental consulting firm in the Sacramento, California area. He has a Bachelor's Degree in astrophysics from the University of California at Berkeley, and a Master's Degree in physics from the University of California at Davis. He has been researching climate science, economics, and solutions as a hobby since 2006, and has contributed to Skeptical Science since September, 2010., Updated 2011, Originally Posted 9/24/2010, “The Big Picture”, [[http://www.skepticalscience.com/big-picture.html]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Earth is … so would be exceptionally foolish</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brandenberg 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (John & Monica Paxson, Visiting Prof. Researcher @ Florida Space Institute, Physicist Ph.D., Science Writer, Dead Mars Dying Earth, Pg 232-233)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ozone hole expands, driven by a monstrous synergy with __global warming__ that __puts more catalytic ice crystals into the stratosphere__, but … __a few__ hardy __microbes surviving__.</span>




=Transit Apartheid - St. Mark's= 
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan Text</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1 is Transit Apartheid</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Status Quo infrastructure investment focuses solely on profit maximization – current neoliberal practices make social exclusion inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Farmer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wogan 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama said … </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A lack of infrastructure severely damages low-income minority communities – the neoliberal city makes combating resource disparities impossible and masks militarism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grengs 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation apartheid also makes environmental justice unachievable – a focus on combating funding disparities couples environmental justice with race-based politics.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation – this allows for a more effective engagement with the political sphere. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chen 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That’s necessary for environmental justice – the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Collin & Collin 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, covert and institutionalized … of exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We have an obligation to end this exclusion – it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Duarte 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2 is Impact Assessment </span>**== 

**Purely conjoining together link claims only makes predictions less likely and misdirects resources – policy analysis suffers from conjunctive fallacy that relies on a flawed methodology**
**Berube, 2k**. (<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David M Berube, PhD, and Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the Univ of South Carolina. “Debunking Mini-Max Reasoning: The Limits of Extended Causal Chains in Contest Debating” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 21(2000). Online PDF.) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What was a knotty piece of … </span>**__begs the question of equivocation__**.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Previously note, predictions fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tetlock & Gardner 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Philip Tetlock is a professor of organizational behavior at the Haas Business School at the University of California-Berkeley, AND Dan Gardner is a columnist and senior writer for the Ottawa Citizen and the author of The Science of Fear, received numerous awards for his writing, including the Michener Award, M.A. History from York, "OVERCOMING OUR AVERSION TO ACKNOWLEDGING OUR IGNORANCE" July 11 [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/]]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Each December, The Economist forecasts the coming year in a special issue called The World in Whatever-The-Next-Year-Is. It’s avidly read around the world. But then, like most forecasts, it’s forgotten.</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The editors may regret that … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">predicted more of the same.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Structural Violence outweighs </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hintjens 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neither natural nor inevitable</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Focus on structural conditions first---conflict becomes inevitable otherwise </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sandy & Perkins 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Leo R. veteran of the U.S. Navy and an active member of Veterans for Peace, Inc., co-founder of Peace Studies at Plymouth State College, Ray; Teaches philosophy at Plymouth State College, The Nature of Peace and Its Implications for Peace Education”, Online journal of peace and conflict resolution, Issue 4.2, Spring 02, http://www.trinstitute.org/ojpcr/4_2natp.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The peace process additionally must … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to fester and erupt later</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Talvitie 12</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]] BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prediction is …</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> are being challenged. </span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Existential risk methodology authorizes Scholars to Jam Together Decontextualized Predictions Which makes calculation impossible </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kessler, 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. (Oliver Kessler, Prof Sociology @ Univ of Bielefield. “From Insecurity to Uncertainty: Risk and the Paradox of Security Politics” Alternatives. 33(2008).) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The problem of the second … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">be assessed with relative certainty</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>






==2AC: Process Over Product K== 
**their focus on process destroys the product**
**Oenen 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gijs van Oenen is senior lecturer in practical philosophy at the Department of Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Ph.D. from the University of Amsterdam in 1994. Next to the Erasmus University, he has been affiliated with the University of Amsterdam, Webster University Leiden, and the Rotterdam Academy of Architecture and Urban Design. A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political LIfe Gijs Van Oenen. Theory & Event. Baltimore: 2006. Vol. 9, Iss. 2;1 pgs 40. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">32. These employees thus had become ... product is taken over, or preempted, by the process of production, or 'provision'. </span>
==2AC: Federalism== 
**Plan is key to effective federalism**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dilger 10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert Jay </span>**</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dilger</span>//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior … </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">funding guarantees, and congressional earmarks.2</span>

**Federalism contributes to spatial inequality**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sukkoo, Associate Professor, Department of Economics UCLA, Economic History; Urban and Regional Economics; Trade and Development ,“Spatial Inequality and Economic Development: Theories, Facts and Policies” https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:wm0xC4ZyVu8J:www.growthcommission.org/storage/cgdev/documents/kim_final_draft.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjEtZgJt4maAQXU7At0qH_d6skw73SUk1JBRHjSLLFc1EQzvvJUahEmJkZaTfibs8Qq8BW4R346hQGNxlBWVmtBQ79ZOVylFk112mCYbC1ElO1EEmb5ugvpWMA-ZukxiWqkyGi2&sig=AHIEtbTf2vSCCjxg9M1XO5gWyBYFu19gJA&pli=1, March 2008)</span>
<span class="Underline">Federalism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or the balance of … </span><span class="Underline">spatial equality over time</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kim (2008)). </span>

**States and Federal power aren’t zero-sum --- concurrent regulation is the norm**
**Schapiro 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Prof Law – Emory, Fordham Law Review, March, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The jurisprudence of Justice John … Deal conceptions of dual sovereignty. </span>

**No international modeling**
**Moravcsik 5** (Andrew, “Dream On America”, Newsweek, 1/31, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/6857387/site/newsweek/]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not long ago, the American … </span>__the rest of the world__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thumper/link turn/plan is popular---federal leadership inevitable, states, public, businesses pushing for plan</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leckrone 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Wesley, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Widener University specializing in federalism and intergovernmental relations, "The 112 Congress, Federalism and Transportation Policy," http://theamericanpartnership.com/2011/01/05/the-112-congress-federalism-and-transportation-policy/ SL)</span>
**__Republicans__** in the 112th Congress **__… regions: increased federal transportation funding__**.
==2AC: Inflation DA== 
**Economy is weakening**
**AP 6/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“US economy grew at modest 1.9 percent rate”, Bloomberg BusinessWeek, 6/28/12, [[http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06-28/us-economy-grew-at-modest-1-dot-9-percent-rate]])//MC</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) — </span>__The U.S. economy expanded at a 1.9 … below the previous 2.7 percent estimate.__

<span class="Underline">Plan stimulates the economy and is extremely cheap</span>
**Frazer, Law @ Georgetown University, 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Monica Oui Frazer *, J.D. Candidate, Georgetown University Law Center, 2000, 7 Georgetown Journal on Poverty Law & Policy 1, p.lexis/nexis, access 8/17/12]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Communities share the goals of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">solutions must also be considered.</span>

**Employment reduces inflation – lagged effects of taxation and confused signals**
**Niskanen 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. in Economics from University of Chicago [William and Alan and Reynolds,, 5/5/2002, Alan Reynolds has a masters degree in economics from Cal State Sacramento, “New Evidence on the Old Phillips Curve”, Cato Institute, accessed 6/21/12, www.cato.org/pubs/tbb/tbb-0205-5.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The resulting estimate became known … inflation very close to zero.</span>

**Massive inflation by the end of the year – we printed too much money**
**Kirven 12 - Lubbock Invest,** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Romeyo, PR … </span> __June__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 21, 2012)</span>

__Voices across the country are … to balance the federal budget.__
==2AC: Privatization CP== 
**Federal government is key to solve militarism and neoliberalism---privatization fails**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mann 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eric Mann, Eric Mann is the director of the Labor/Community Strategy Center in Los Angeles and a co-founder of the Bus Riders Union. The Strategy Center is a “think tank/act tank” that trains organizers and initiates high visibility environmental justice, mass transportation, and civil rights campaigns, “A NEW VISION</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FOR URBAN TRANSPORTATION”, 1996, http://www.uchastings.edu/faculty-administration/faculty/piomelli/class-website/docs/Bus-Riders-Union-New-Vision.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Community economic conversion and development</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … built into the contract structure.</span>

**Private actors don’t solve – won’t help the most needy citizens**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CCGA 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– The Chicago Council on Global Affairs is a leading independent, nonpartisan organization committed to influencing the discourse on global issues through contributions to opinion and policy formation, leadership dialogue, and public learning [September 2010, “No Free Money: Is the Privatization of Infrastructure in the Public Interest?” [[http://www.thechicagocouncil.org/UserFiles/File/Emerging%20Leaders%20Program/ELReport2010_Privatization.pdf]], Page 29-30 ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. </span><span class="Underline">privatization may have social … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">have more time to shop.</span>

**The market continually disadvantages the poor---inevitable human and mkt error discourage private investment**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gannon and Liu 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Colin Gannon and Zhi Liu, Zhi Liu Lead is an infrastructure Specialist, East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank, Beijing; Colin Gannon is senior transport economist at the World Bank, “Poverty and Transport”, September, 1997, http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTURBANTRANSPORT/Resources/twu-30.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4.19 Other </span><span class="Underline">forms of market … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">with the high sunk costs).</span>


**Government oversight is inevitable**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CCGA 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– The Chicago Council on Global Affairs is a leading independent, nonpartisan organization committed to influencing the discourse on global issues through contributions to opinion and policy formation, leadership dialogue, and public learning [September 2010, “No Free Money: Is the Privatization of Infrastructure in the Public Interest?” [[http://www.thechicagocouncil.org/UserFiles/File/Emerging%20Leaders%20Program/ELReport2010_Privatization.pdf]], </span>Page 34 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. </span><span class="Underline">Private entities may fail to fulfill c...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not just the headline proceeds.</span>

==2AC: Government PIC== 
**the combination shatters discursive oppression**
**Kurtz** **3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Anna, Chris Oscarson, National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College, Composition and Communication "BookTalk: Revising the Discourse of Hate”]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, Butler also argues that … in which everyone feels safe.</span>


**Turn—masking—changing the words we use makes their discursive impacts worse**
**Meisner** **95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mark, Professor of environmental studies at York University, “Resourcist Language: The Symbolic Enslavement of Nature”]</span>

__Changing the language we use …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or that it is deterministic.</span>

**The PIC trades off with interrogation that is necessary**
**Schram 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sanford Schram, 1995 (teaches social theory and policy in the Graduate School of Social Work and Social Research at Bryn Mawr College Words of Welfare Chapter 2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The sounds of silence are … a politics out of sanitizing language. </span>
==2AC: Cap K== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Our focus on environmental injustice is able to challenge the root cause behind exploitation and create social change</span>
**Shekar and Nguyen 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Preeti Mangala, and Tram, Who Gains from the Green Economy?, March/April, [[http://www.colorlines.com/printerfriendly.php?ID=276]],</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In these efforts lay a hopeful … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">were the least invested in it.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Climate change is the 21st century’s wake-up call to not just rethink but radically redo our economies. Ninety percent of scientists agree that we are headed toward a climate crisis, and that, indeed, it has already started. With the urgent need to reduce carbon emissions, the clean energy economy is poised to grow enormously. This sector includes anything that meets our energy needs without contributing to carbon emissions or that reduces carbon emissions; it encompasses building retrofitting, horticulture infrastructure (tree pruning and urban gardening), food security, biofuels and other renewable energy sources, and more.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">It’s becoming clear that </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">investing … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">of that of white people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Pinderhughes defines green-collar jobs as manual labor jobs in businesses whose goods and services directly improve environmental quality. These jobs are typically located in large and small for-profit businesses, nonprofit organizations, social enterprises, and public and private institutions. Most importantly, these jobs offer training, an entry level that usually requires only a high school diploma, and decent wages and benefits, as well as a potential career path in a growing industry.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Yet,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> __though green economics present a …__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">private sources for related projects.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">In 2003, Sustainable South Bronx started Project BEST (Bronx Environmental Stewardship Training) to train local residents, largely young adults, in green collar jobs. The program has become one of the nation’s most successful, boasting a 90 percent job placement rate. Project BEST includes 10 weeks of training in a wide range of green activities, including riverbank and wetlands restoration, urban horticulture, green roof installation and maintenance and hazardous waste clean up. Graduates leave the program with six official certifications as well as what Sustainable South Bronx calls a “powerful environmental justice perspective.” “We wanted to make sure that people had both the personal and financial stake in the betterment of the environment,” said Carter. “They already knew the public health impacts, being a repository for the dirty economy. What they didn’t know was that they could also be direct beneficiaries.” The program helps people find work afterward, and tracks graduates for at least three years to measure their progress.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Thus, Sustainable South Bronx builds a constituency for the green economy by creating chances for people to live in it. These communities have to be prepared not just to become practitioners in the new economy, but also as political actors who propose and fight for legislative solutions. The organization has worked with other groups in New York to influence the City’s economic and environmental plans, using legislation to move development ideas that would save the public money as well as providing jobs and improving the environment. Their idea that building green roofs, for example, would prevent the city from having to maintain large water purification systems is slowly finding its way into the Bloomberg Administration’s PlaNYC. A recent City Council decision also beefs up the public participation requirements for particular elements of Plan NYC. </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Green development should give the … classes that are predominantly white.</span>__

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> “An authentic green economics … movement has not started yet.”</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A movement toward economic justice … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">make a push </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">to produce locally</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.”</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Green economics can create a … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">organizing a political base,” adds Clarke.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Green economics</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">then</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, is not … , of either money or material.”</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The $125 million promised through the … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">dollars for green economic stimulus.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">a community benefits agreement from the city to require that the new development include mass transit, green building and living wages for those jobs.</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“A big chunk of the … basically in economic free fall.”</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The challenge of making the green economy racially equitable means addressing the question of how to build an infrastructure that includes not just training programs but also the development of actual good jobs and the hiring policies that make them accessible. How can we guarantee that all these new green jobs will go to local residents? As one activist admitted, “There’s just no good answer to this so far.”</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Many of the answers will … don’t first replace gray capitalism.”</span>__


**Capitalism and wealth disparities are not the root cause of environmental racism**
**Bullard et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert D. Bullard is the Ware Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. He is the author of thirteen books that address sustainable development, environmental racism, urban land use, industrial facility siting, community reinvestment, housing, transportation and smart growth. His book, Dumping in Dixie: Race, Class and Environmental Quality (Westview Press, 2000), is a standard text in the environmental justice field. His most recent books include Just Sustainabilities: Development in an Unequal World (Earthscan/MIT Press, 2003), Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity (South End Press, 2004), The Quest for Environmental Justice: Human Rights and the Politics of Pollution (Sierra Club Books, 2005), Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice and Regional Equity (MIT Press, 2007) and The Black Metropolis in the Twenty­First Century: Race, Power and the Politics of Place (Rowman & Littlefield, forthcoming May 2007). Paul Mohai is Professor in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He was an early and major contributor to the growing body of quantitative research examining the disproportionate environmental burdens in low­income and people of color communities. A significant outcome of this early research was the organization of the historic 1990 “Michigan Conference on Race and the Incidence of Environmental Hazards” with colleague Dr. Bunyan Bryant. Dr. Mohai also has been a major contributor to research examining the environmental attitudes of African Americans and their influence on the environmental movement. His current research involves national­level studies examining cause and effect relationships in the distribution of environmental hazards by race and class, including examining the role environmental factors play in accounting for racial and socioeconomic disparities in health. He is the author of numerous articles on the subject of race and the environment. Robin Saha is Assistant Professor of Environmental Studies at the University of Montana and affiliated faculty with its School of Public and Community Health Sciences. He is among the leading scholars conducting quantitative studies of environmental inequality using Geographic Information Systems (GIS). His articles appear in leading social science journals including Demography and Social Problems. His teaching and research focuses on the intersection of environmental justice, health and policy with an emphasis on community engagement and empowerment. He is committed to providing assistance to contaminated communities and works actively on tribal environmental issues. One of his current community­based research projects focuses on substandard housing and environmental health on Montana Indian reservations. He also consults on environmental justice legal cases and conducts environmental justice analyses for a wide variety of nonprofit advocacy organizations. Beverly Wright is a sociologist and the founding director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice (DSCEJ) at Dillard University (formerly at Xavier University of Louisiana) in New Orleans. She is a leading scholar, advocate and activist in the environmental justice arena. She served on the U.S. Commission of Civil Rights for the state of Louisiana and on the city of New Orleans' Select Committee for the Sewerage and Water Board. She is co­chair of the National Black Environmental Justice Network and the Environmental Justice Climate Change (EJCC) Initiative. She is the co­author of In the Wake of the Storm: Environment, Disaster and Race after Katrina (Russell Sage Foundation, May 2006). She is a native of New Orleans and a survivor of Hurricane Katrina. “Toxic Wastes and Race at Twenty 1987—2007”, [[http://www.ucc.org/assets/pdfs/toxic20.pdf]], March 2007] SV</span>
Toxic Wastes and Race in … <span class="Underline">produces similar results</span> (see Appendix 4.10).

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Neoliberalism is an extreme form of capitalism </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux 4,</span><span class="Underline"> **Henry, Prof of Comm @ …** </span>as market research and advertising.

**The aff violates traditional capitalist rules---redrawing spatial lines breaks-down profit-driven politics**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gough et al 6</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, senior lecturer in town and regional planning at Sheffield university, Aram Eisenschitz, senior lecturer in the school of health and social science at Middlesex university, Andrew McCulloch, senior lecturer at northumbria university, Spaces of Social Exclusion, p. 65, JG)</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">Capitalist towns and cities separate … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of these fundamental capitalist relations.</span>

**Capitalism is inevitable—reform is the only option---revolutionary rhetoric cedes the political**
**Wilson 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- coordinator of the … __manual for pragmatic progressives__, 2000, pg. 15-16, DKP]</span>

__Capitalism is far too ingrained …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Worker to an uninterested public.</span>

**Market based approaches are inevitable and key to grass roots democracy and progressive social change**
**Roberston 9** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">January 4th, Dr. Morgan, Assistant Professor of Geography at the University of Kentucky worked at the headquarters of the US EPA on the development of the 2008 wetland compensation rule, [[http://ecosystemmarketplace.com/pages/article.opinion.php?component_id=6415&component_version_id=9661&language_id=12]],</span>
__Although academics are generally good … potential for surprise is enormous.__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Marginalized groups must appeal to the state, the alt creates violent backlash leading to nuclear war and genocide</span>
**Shaw 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Martin, Professor of International Relations at Sussex University, The unfinished glbal revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations,</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Since ‘worldwide’, ‘international’ and ‘global’ … conglomerate. Thesuccess of the global-</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">democratic revolutionary wave depends ﬁrst on how well it is consolidated in each national context—but second, on how thoroughly it is embedded in international networks of power, at the centre of which, inescapably, is the West. From these political fundamentals, strategic propositions can be derived. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">First, </span>__democratic movements cannot regard …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">worldwide. This will involve the </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">kind of ‘cosmopolitan democracy’argued for by David Held.85It will also require us to advance a global social-democratic agenda, to address the literally catastrophic scale of world social inequalities. This is not a separate problem: social and economic reform is an essential ingredient of alternatives to warlike and genocidal power; these feed off and reinforce corrupt and criminal political economies.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Fourth, if we need the global-Western state, if we want to democratize it and make its institutions friendlier to global peace and justice, we cannot be indifferent to its strategic debates. It matters to develop international political interventions, legal institutions and robust peacekeeping as strategic alternatives to bombing our way through zones of crisis. It matters that international intervention supports pluralist structures, rather than ratifying Bosnia-style apartheid.86 </span>
As political intellectuals in the West, we need to have our eyes on the ball at our feet, but we also need to raise them to the horizon. We need to grasp the historic
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">drama that is transforming worldwide … relations and politics, are intertwined. </span>

**Their totalizing representation of capitalism as the root cause of problems is a self-fulfilling prophecy—it overlooks the complexities and discontinuities within capitalism and destroys the possibility of non-capitalist thought**
**Gibson-Graham 96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Julie Graham, professor, U Massachusetts, and Katherine Gibson, professor, Monash U, The End of Capitalism (As We Know It), p 2-4, AG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The End of Capitalism (As … </span>__of conferring identity and meaning.__

**Capitalism is sustainable and self-correcting**
**Goklany 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Julia Simon Fellow @ the Political Economy Research Center [Indur, Reason.com, “Now for the Good News,” 3/23/2007, [[http://reason.com/archives/2007/03/23/now-for-the-good-news]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmentalists and </span>__globalization foes are … goods breed stagnation or regression__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">Transition from cap causes war</span>
<span class="Underline">Kothari 82 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of Political Science</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of political science at the University of Delhi, Towards a Just Social Order, p. 571</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Attempts at global economic reform … stage for eventual global holocaust.</span>
==2AC: Elections (Obama Good)== 
**Turn – Plan is Popular with Low-Income Minorities – Access to Transportation Creates Social Coalitions that Can Effectively Engage the Political – Hoang Evidence.**
**Key to the Election---Turn out is the Determining Factor**
**Brookings 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Why Minorities Will Decide the 2012 U.S. Election,” May 2012, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/05/01-race-elections-frey]], AJ</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For the Democratic president, it … enthusiasm of minority voting blocs. </span>__

**Turn – Plan Follows Through on Obama Promises – It’s a Huge Political Victory**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gelinas, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - a City Journal contributing editor and the Searle Freedom Trust Fellow at the Manhattan Institute (Nicole, “Nation-Building in Washington,” City Journal, Winter</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.city-journal.org/2011/21_1_snd-infrastructure.html%29/DH|http://www.city-journal.org/2011/21_1_snd-infrastructure.html)//DH]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There’s little risk to the … </span>//and then don’t follow through//<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Public Transportation is Popular**
**Laing 9/12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keith Laing writes for The Hill, “Enviro poll: 66 percent support more public transportation,” 2012, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/public-transit/249013-enviro-poll-66-percent-support-more-public-transportation-]], AJ</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sixty-six percent of Americans … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">version of the transportation bill. </span>

**Their deficits link is non-unique and has no impact---doesn’t determine the election**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Charles </span>**Babington 9/5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">writer for the associated press “Analysis: Record US debt hardly dents the campaign” http://finance.yahoo.com/news/analysis-record-us-debt-hardly-dents-campaign-201305610--election.html</span>
__A big question hanging over … their convention arena__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Tampa.</span>

**Non-Unique and Link Turn – Obama Will Lose Now Because of Jobs**
<span class="Underline">Kuhnenn 6/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (By JIM KUHNHENN Jobs report weakens Obama's election argument, Associated Press – Jun 1, 2012http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5gsaYFQdx2znAhPsfYTu8i0by1y9Q?docId=e6bff853b74e4e7a82d5e9795cb71284-BRW)</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The economy, struggling ...** **than to the economy long-term.** </span>

**Job Creation Key to Election**
**Galston 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/10, Walliam A., Ezra Zilkha Chair in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, where he serves as a senior fellow. A former policy advisor to President Clinton “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf)KY</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Every survey finds that economic … , and social issues barely registered</span>

**Florida supports the Plan**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3/14 </span>**HCTI 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, ““Improving and Reforming our Nation’s Surface Transportation Programs: Central Florida Hearing”, http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97c6d565-bb43-406d-a6d5-eca3bbf35af0%7D/FL%20TRANSPORTATION%20TESTIMONY%20FINAL.PDF, DOA 9/3/12, RI</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Floridians in areas far … car loan and purchase programs.</span>

**The plan is popular---perceived benefits**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David A. </span>**King 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colombia University “Remediating Inequity in Transportation Finance” Remediating Inequity in Transportation Finance, SPECIAL REPORT 303: EQUITY OF EVOLVING TRANSPORTATION FINANCE MECHANISMS, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr303King.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investing transportation revenues into transit … immediate benefits to the public. </span>__

**Alt cause---Europe instability**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Galt 6-10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-12,</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">political columnist for America’s Chronicle [John, America’s Chronicle, “US Election 2012 Moves To Europe” [[http://robbingamerica.blogspot.com/2011/12/us-election-2012-moves-to-europe.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is that in … </span><span class="Underline">Europe</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. Geithner goes to Europe!</span>
==2AC: T - Mass Transit== 
**Mass transit is transportation infrastructure**
**American Jobs Act 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Submitted by Congressman Larson, H.R. 12, September 21, 2011, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr12ih/pdf/BILLS-112hr12ih.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Subtitle E—</span>__Immediate Transportation Infrastructure Investments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 17 … funds provided under this subtitle. </span>

**Mass transit is transportation infrastructure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Puentes 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Fellow and Director, Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative Brookings Institution (Robert “Budget 2010: Signaling Changes in Federal Transportation Policy” 5/13/09 http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2009/05/13-obama-budget-puentes)//dm//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the most part, </span><span class="Underline">the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, passed earlier this year.</span>//

//**It’s the consensus**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Orr and Keever 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - is executive director at the Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects and teaches Global Project Finance to engineering, law school and MBA students also holds a PhD in Engineering from Stanford University Keever is a California admitted attorney in private practice. He has experience in private revenue bonds, foreign infrastructure planning with governmental participation in managed economies, and extensive corporate and joint venture experience, including joint ventures between foreign governmental agencies and private firms.. He holds an Ll.M (taxation) from George Washington University, a J.D. from the University of Virginia Law School, and a B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has served on the Collaboratory’s Executive Committee since 2002. (Ryan and Gregory “Enabling User-Fee Backed Transportation Finance in California” January 2008 http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers/Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf)</span>//dm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In arriving at these conclusions, </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">use, and needs periodic replacement.</span>

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">W/M and C/I---Mass Transit Is Capital Spending and Grants are Investment</span>**
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8pt;">November,</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">CBO 10</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8pt;">*Congressional Budget Office, “… from amounts appropriated by ARRA.</span>

**C/I---Infrastructure includes vehicles**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Export-Import Bank 11</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– program designed to give loans to businesses as an economic stimulus, key determinant in rise in exports (Export-Import Bank, “FY 2011 Highlights,” Ex-Im Bank 2011 Financial Report, http://www.exim.gov/about/reports/ar/2011/highlights.html)//RD</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">By 2030, five billion people — almost … U.S.-manufactured communications satellites. (See below.)</span>



=Transit Apartheid - Broken @ Greenhill Octas= 
==**CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY**== 

**Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled**
**Wogan 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama said … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**Transportation bill stunts JARC investment**
**APTA 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">American Public Transportation Association, 6/29, http://www.apta.com/gap/legupdatealert/2012/Documents/2012June29.pdf, “House and Senate Vote to Pass Surface Transportation Conference Report,” AJ</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The final conference agreement provides … under the Sec. 5307 formula program. </span>__

**No disads---funding now, but just not enough**
**Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">services for the working poor</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Lack of funding dooms** **70,000 annually**
**Bullard 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">per 10,000 population vs. 10.6 admissions per 10,000 population). </span>__

==**CONTENTION 2 IS TRANSPORTATION APARTEID**== 

**SCENARIO ONE IS ECONOMIC RATIONALITY**

**Lack of federal resources subjugates low-income communities to neo-liberal racism**
**Farmer 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**Access to transit is the lynchpin to RACIST neoliberalism**
**Grengs 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The impact is militarism and violence**
**Harvey 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]], 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">now actually seen to rule. </span>

**SCENARIO TWO IS POLITICAL EXCLUSION---**

**Low-income minorities are excluded from access to critical resources due to a lack of access to transportation**
**Fan 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the … **the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998). </span>

**Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment**
**Hoang 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**The aff is crucial for uniting coalitions for social change**
**Bullard 7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily … from expanding suburban job centers. </span>__

**Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---challenges injustice and exclusion**
**Chen 7** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span>

**That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization**
**Collin & Collin 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized … of exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence**
**Duarte 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.**

==**CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY**== 

**Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns**
**Hoang 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

<span class="Underline">**Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Talvitie 12</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]] BJM</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prediction is central to …</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">challenged.</span>**</span>
==2AC: States CP== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">States don’t cut it</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schank 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua Schank President & CEO Eno Center for Transportation, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and provides professional development opportunities across the career span of transportation professionals. http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement EG)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The role of the federal … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">data, analysis, and desired outcomes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">State MPOs fail</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Olson 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Benjamin K., J.D. from Georgetown University and B.A. from Tulane University, “The Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century: The Failure of Metropolitan Planning Organizations to Reform Federal Transportation Policy in Metropolitan Areas,” Transportation Journal, Volume 28, Issue 147, http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?collection=journals&handle=hein.journals/tportl28&div=12&id=&page=)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation planning decisions in metropolitan … TEA-21 are to become a reality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fed key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Klesh 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">*Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the parochial self-interests … goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Federal government is key to solve militarism and neoliberalism---privatization fails</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mann 96</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Eric Mann, Eric Mann is the director of the Labor/Community Strategy Center in Los Angeles and a co-founder of the Bus Riders Union. The Strategy Center is a “think tank/act tank” that trains organizers and initiates high visibility environmental justice, mass transportation, and civil rights campaigns, “A NEW VISION</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">FOR URBAN TRANSPORTATION”, 1996, http://www.uchastings.edu/faculty-administration/faculty/piomelli/class-website/docs/Bus-Riders-Union-New-Vision.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Community economic conversion and development</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … built into the contract structure.</span>
==2AC: Buddhism K== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our approach to existence is life affirming and prevents oppression. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Millicent **Lenz**, Assis. Prof Science and Policy @ SUNY, **1990**, Nuclear Age Literature for Youth, p. 9-10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A summary of Frank’s thought … fear, moreover, takes a psychic toll.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Case outweighs – peace is the __highest__ value – key to harmony</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Slabbert</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Taoist teacher and philosopher, **2001,** Jos, “Tao Te Ching: How to Deal With Suffering,” [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]] Warfare</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Weapons are the tools of violence; …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the peace has been shattered, how can he be content?</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Their rejection ethics make us complicit in suffering</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Slavoj **Zizek**, senior researcher for the institute of advanced studies in humanities essen, germany, “Revenge of Global Finance,” In These Times, 5-21, **2005**, pg. [[http://www.inthesetimes.com/site/main/article/2122/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ultimate postmodern … “truth” of his existence is the social involvment which he tends to dismiss as a mere game.)</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rejection of good/evil distinctions by humans destroys ethics – impact is warfare</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hector **Sabelli**, Chicago Center for Creative Development, **1998**, The Union of Opposites: From Taoism to Process Theory, Syst. Res. 15, 429–441</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Great Tao, it is said…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> also are different, so we must choose.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plan’s restraint’s only way to solve our offense</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Col. Dan **Smith**, USA, Retired, **2006**, Presentation to Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Fairfax: If War Is Not The Answer, Then What Is?, http://www.fcnl.org/issues/item.php?item_id=2186&issue_id=129</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">For millennia, individuals</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> … __by the new ideological terrorism.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Policy applications fails</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Holmes **Welch**, Member of the East Asian Research Center, **1965**, Taoism: The Parting of the Way</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Now __inaction cannot …__ away the granite of enemy ambition."</span>







=Inland Waterways - Greenhill= 
**Same aff as on the wiki**

==**2AC: T - Transportation Infrastructure**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Counter-Interpretation – </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Transportation Infrastructure Investment is Nine Distinct Areas – Inland Waterways are Included</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">N.I.D.B.A 11</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> National Infrastructure Development Bank Act 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> H.R. 402 http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/F?c112:1:./temp/~c112StL2nY:e4739:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For purposes of this Act, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the following definitions apply</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ports, airports, high speed rail and freight rail systems.</span>__**


==**2AC: Buy America's Bonds DA**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">States will be more protectionist</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rayner 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">May 8th -- Martin is an independent consultant with more than 27 years of experience working in customs brokerage and international trade logistics -- held executive-level positions with a number of leading trade service providers across Canada, International Trade Compliance Strategies, 5-8, http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Further complicating …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> subject to “Buy America” requirements.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No impact to Canada</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rayner 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">May 8th -- Martin is an independent consultant with more than 27 years of experience working in customs brokerage and international trade logistics -- held executive-level positions with a number of leading trade service providers across Canada, International Trade Compliance Strategies, 5-8, http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pressured by Canadian … the sub-federal level (i.e. states, provinces and cities).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Transit doesn’t cause the impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">lliance for American Manufacturing 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending, FEBRUAR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">International Trade Agreements … Code substantially limit its application.</span>

==**2AC: States CP**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Supreme Court Will Rule in Favor of the Aff – </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ONLY the Federal Government Has Jurisdiction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AAPA, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities—represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)]] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">competitiveness, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">be recognized and prioritized.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">**Federal Action is Key to Effective Coordination and Uniformity of Infrastructure**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DOT 20</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">**11** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(United States Department of Transportation, April 2011, “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress”, [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]”) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">External benefits of America’s Marine … contributions of Marine Highway services.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Counterplan Gets Struck Down – Courts … Rule Against Unconstitutional __State__ Policies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schutte, 92</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Stephen K. Schutte, University of Iowa Law Student, “Doctrinal Foundations of Section 1983 and the Resurgent Dormant Commerce Clause” 77 Iowa L. Rev. 1249 March 1992, L/N Legal)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Judicial determination of the impermissibility … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">limits of permissible state regulations).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No Net Benefit – Constitution Requires that ONLY The Federal Government Can Fund Waterway Development</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stern 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Charles V. Stern is a Analyst in Natural Resources Policy, 4/12, “Inland Waterways: Recent Proposals and Issues for Congress,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Inland waterways are a significant part … a **100% federal responsibility pursuant**</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> to WRDA 1986</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Empirically Proven – Courts Rule in Favor of the Plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">APTA, 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(American Public Transportation Association, “U.S. DOT Offers Model Legislation for Private Investments” American Public Transportation Association, 22 January 2007,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.apta.com/passengertransport/Documents/archive_3569.htm)]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is well established that __… **affirmed** by the U.S. Supreme Court.__</span>

=Inland Waterways - Greenhill RR= 
**Plan: The United States federal government should increase its investment in inland waterway infrastructure modernization projects in the United States.**

==**Advantage one is leadership**== 

**Heg solves global nuclear war**
**Khalilzad 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge …the kind of crisis that we face today</span>

**Empirics prove heg is good---your defense doesn’t apply**
**Kagan, 2012**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Kagan, senior fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings. His most recent book is</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://knopf.knopfdoubleday.com/2012/02/08/the-world-america-made-by-robert-kagan/|The World America Made]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Dr. Kagan also serves as a member of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Foreign Affairs Policy Board and is co-chairman of the bipartisan Working Group on Egypt. He writes a monthly column on world affairs for the Washington Post, and is a contributing editor at both the Weekly Standard and The New Republic, “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN, 3-14-2012, Online</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(CNN)</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We take a lot for granted … before the American order</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> came into being.</span>

**No risk of their offense – waning hegemony causes us lashout prior to multipolarity**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Goldstein 7</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, Volume</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064~tab=issueslist~branches=30#v30|30]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, Issue </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g780703608|4 & 5 ]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">August 2007, pages 639 – 682)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Two closely related, though distinct…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> period prior to the possible crossover</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">19 pg. 647-650</span>

**Competitiveness is key to heg --- and, no offense, pursuit of heg is inev**
**Tellis 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States, Global Asia, accessed on July 14, 2011, http://www.globalasia.org/Back_Issues/Volume_4_Number_1_Spring_2009/Preserving_Hegemony_The_Strategic_Tasks_Facing_the_United_States.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Precisely because </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the central tasks identified earlier as facing the new US administration.</span>

**Hard power key to dominance**
**Bremmer 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ian, president of Eurasia Group and author of “The End of the Free Market” (Portfolio), published in May, China vs America: fight of the century22nd March 2010 — Issue 169, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">important for the US</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … India a great deal of money.</span>__

**We solve---aging waterways infrastructure prevents effectiveness---destroys competitiveness**
**Martin 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cornel Martin, President of Waterways Council, Former President and CEO of the Canadian American Transportation System, Former member of the senior professional staff of the House of Representatives’ Coast Guard and Navigation Subcommittee and Legislative Assistant for Maritime Affairs for Congressman W.J. Tauzin, “Inland Waterways Investment is Critical to Economic Recovery and Future Growth” Maritime Executive Magazine OP-Ed, January/February 2009 Edition, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.waterwayscouncil.org/Media%20Center/articles/Page_%20from_Cornel_OPED_Marex.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The New Year brings much …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as a world leader is in jeopardy.</span>__**

**The plan is both __necessary__ and __sufficient__**
**Jackson 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army, Under Supervision of Professor John F. Troxell, USAWC Strategy Research Project, “LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM” Mar 30 2007, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">inland waterway …**network**</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for the 21 st Century.</span>__**

**Plan’s key to military mobility and overall power projection**
**Jackson 7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army, Under Supervision of Professor John F. Troxell, USAWC Strategy Research Project, “LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM” Mar 30 2007, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contributions of the … **public radar.**</span>__


==**Advantage two is agriculture**== 

**Ag collapse causes global nuclear war**
**Lugar 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – U.S. Senator – Indiana, Beta Theta Pi from Denison University, Rhodes Scholar at Pembroke College - Bachelor and Master's degrees, U.S. Navy Lieutenantn (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In a world confronted </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the health of our planet</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**

**Food price spikes independently cause collapse the global economy and cause global instability---the brink is now**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lester R. </span>**Brown 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">president of the Earth Policy Institute, author of World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse, “The New Geopolitics of Food,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_new_geopolitics_of_food</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the United States, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> shattered, **the global economy could have started to unravel.**</span>__

**Economic collapses causes nuclear war**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> debate and deserves more attention.</span>

**Growth eliminates incentives for war**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Gartzke 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Almost as informative …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> becomes a durable anachronism.</span>__

**Current waterway infrastructure in unsustainable – lack of funding ensures delays and lock failure**
**Boselovic 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/18/2012, Len, “Locked and Dammed: The region's 23 locks and dams are on the brink of failure,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/environment/locked-and-dammed-the-regions-23-locks-and-dams-are-on-the-brink-of-failure-517289/?print=1]]</span>, JMP)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While Pittsburgh … invest in themselves,"</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said.</span>

**By 2020, 80% of lock systems will fail**
**Heintz et al.****9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James Heintz Associate Research Professor & Associate Director Robert Pollin Professor of Economics & Co-Director Heidi Garrett-Peltier Research Assistant Political Economy Research Institute “How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy: Employment, Productivity and Growth,” http://americanmanufacturing.org/files/peri_aam_finaljan16_new.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Approximately 2.6 … is $125 billion</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Failures spillover**
**Meira 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kristin Meira, Executive Director @ Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, Political Transcript of a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, proquest</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Early in the last decade, …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for the entire system</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**

**Panama canal expansion means flows of soybeans will increase---failure to invest means we can’t reap the benefits**
**Steenhoek 4/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director of the Soy Transportation Coalition House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing; "How Reliability of the Inland Waterway System Impacts Economic Competitiveness."; Testimony by Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director, Soy Transportation Coalition, Congressional Documents and Publications, 2012, lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of …Funded by the soybean check off</span>


**Plan is uniquely key to preventing the collapse of ag competitiveness---key to econ and solves famine**
**Steenhoek 4/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director of the Soy Transportation Coalition House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing; "How Reliability of the Inland Waterway System Impacts Economic Competitiveness."; Testimony by Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director, Soy Transportation Coalition, Congressional Documents and Publications, 2012, lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the past few years, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> * Illinois River: 24 million tons</span>

**Independently solves an economic breakdown---reduces trade deficit, export resurgence, consumer demand, employment**
**Edmondson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, U.S. Agricultural Trade Boosts Overall Economy, USDA, FAU-124 Economic Research Service/USDA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the world becomes more integrated, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">11,800 American jobs</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see box, “Data Sources,” p. 6).</span>

**Waterways are uniquely key**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Witsanu </span>**Attavanich et. al 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Attavanich* Ph.D. Candidate Bruce A. McCarl Distinguished and Regents Professor Stephen W. Fuller Regents Professor Dmitry V. Vedenov Associate Professor Zafarbek Ahmedov Ph.D. Candidate Department of Agricultural Economics, Texas A&M University, College Station Selected Paper prepared for presentation at the Agricultural & Applied Economics Association’s 2011 AAEA & NAREA Joint Annual Meeting</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">July 24-26, “The Effect of Climate Change on Transportation Flows and Inland Waterways Due to Climate-Induced Shifts in Crop Production Patterns” http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/109241/2/AAEASelectedPaper_The%20Effect%20of%20Climate%20Change%20on%20Transportation%20Flows_13247.pdf</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Grain production plays a </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2010).</span>

**Plan’s key to preventing high food prices**
**UN Committee on Transport 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SUMMARY </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Recent increases </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> meat or fish at the domestic or international levels. </span>

**The plan is key to preventing the impact to food price __shocks__ and reversing the upward trend**
**WESP 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World Economic Situation and Prospects 2009, UN http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/policy/wesp/wesp_archive/2009wesp.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Next to this …, beyond the short-term swings, **food prices may remain on a longer-term upward trend**.</span>__


**Federal government is key**
NOTE: There are like 100 different versions of this article - the one on lexis has the paragraphs start at "**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">Our partnership involves the states of Vermont and New York, the Province of Quebec, and numerous federal agencies" and ends at "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">I look forward to answering your questions"</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. William G. </span>**Howland 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is the Basin Program Manager of Lake Champlain, Grand Isle, VT, “U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ROLE IN THE NATION'S WATER RESOURCE NEEDS IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Capital Hill Testimony, March 31, lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our partnership … look forward to answering your questions.</span>