[[toc]]
=Elections DA= 

==1NC== 

**More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney**
**Kraushaar 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If unemployment was the only … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">voter dissatisfaction still runs high.</span>__

**Romney kills relations**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Emmanuel </span>**Felton 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Emmanuel Felton is a Toni Stable Fellow at the Columbia School of Journalism. "Mitt Romney Russia Quotes Signal Big Problems For Future US-Russian Relations," March, http://www.policymic.com/articles/6202/mitt-romney-russia-quotes-signal-big-problems-for-future-us-russian-relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama was referring to a proposed U.S. … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">White House</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Capitol Hill.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The initial criticisms of Obama’s comments went something like this: “What plans are he formulating, that make his “last election” relevant? What is he planning to do that, if the American people were aware of it, would make him unelectable?” While the initial responses to Obama’s comments were purely motivated by November’s elections, Mitt Romney’s remarks went much further. </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Romney called Russia America’s “number … </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">by an increasingly hostile Kremlin. </span>__**

**Nuclear war and solves the case**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Graham </span>**Allison** **& Blackwill** **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs 10-30, "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that … , in advancing our national interests.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Overview---2NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama solves the case---he'll invest in transportation infrastructure in his second term</span>**
**Dolan 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Karen; February 14, 20**12** (Karen Dolan is a fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies and director of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://citiesforprogress.org/|Cities for Progress]]</span> and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://citiesforpeace.org/|Cities for Peace]]</span>projects based there. She holds an M.A. With Highest Distinction in Philosophy and Social Policy from the American University in Washington D.C. Karen joined IPS in 1996; Karen’s public <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ips-dc.org/staff/karen|scholarship]]</span> and activism at IPS have included organizing the Cities for Peace movement and the Cities for Progress project) <<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ips-dc.org/blog/populism_and_pain_in_obamas_2013_budget_proposal]]</span>>[Shah]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Both want to appeal to a … by buildings by 20 percent by 2020.</span>

**This is the only scenario for extinction**
**Bostrom 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Gannon Award winner, Prof at Oxford, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nick Bostrom, Professor of … encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Solves and turns case---(___) US-Russian relations contain escalation of regional conflicts --- prevents great power war.__**
__**Blank, 09****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has served as the Strategic Studies Institute’s expert on the Soviet bloc and the post- Soviet world since 1989. Prior to that he was Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base (Stephen, “PROSPECTS FOR RUSSO-AMERICAN COOPERATION IN HALTING NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION”, March, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB892.pdf) </span>__
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another reason for cooperation relates … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">upon Putin and his subordinates.</span>__

__**And, framing question – relations are a controlling impact – cooperation prevents escalation of all of the aff’s conflicts**__
__**Blank, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the Institute for Strategic Studies (Stephen, “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?” March, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/summary.cfm?q=908)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For these reasons, even if … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">situation as a whole deteriorates correspondingly</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





==Accidental War---2NC== 

**Relations solve __accidental__ nuclear war**
**Cohen 10** [*prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU, Prof emeritus, Princeton, Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cohen: The real concern I have … tanks, can connect these dots. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Turns Econ---2NC</span>== 

**US-Russian ties vital to their economy**
**Vershbow 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Ambassador to Russia (6-23-03, Nezavisimaya Gazeta, http://www.usembassy.ru/bilateral/print_statement.php?record_id=52)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span>__the greatest__ __area of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including protecting intellectual property rights.</span>

**Russian collapse kills global economy.**
**Australian Financial Review 00** [1/8/2000]
__As a big debtor nation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__Russia’s …__ __as the International Monetary Fund__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Turns Heg---2NC== 

**US-Russian relations are the lynchpin of US primacy – others will challenge us, realignment, enemies will be emboldened.**
**Simes 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dimitri, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, Nov/Dec 2007. “Losing Russia,” Foreign Affairs, Ebsco]</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">But</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">if</span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> the current U.S.-Russian … **Washington, with** **potentially catastrophic results**</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Turns Warming---2NC</span>== 

**Relations solve warming.**
**Taylor ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow (Jeffrey, The Atlantic, Medvedev Spoils the Party, November, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like it or not, </span>__the … a volatile future arm in arm__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




==Link Wall---2NC== 



**Obama is hinging the election on REDUCING spending – the plan causes independents to vote Republican**
**Kirchgaessner 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie, “Obama looks to independent voters,” April 15 2011, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/7dd54d5c-678c-11e0-9138-00144feab49a.html#axzz1T844vB9m</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barack </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama is betting that … the deficit required immediate action.</span>__

**Empirics show deficit spending unpopular—Plan will cause Obama to lose his 2012 reelection bid**
**Lowry 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Editor of the National Review and a syndicated columnist. Contributor to Real Clear Politics, 5/30/12 Richard, “Spending? What Spending?” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics .com/articles/2012/05/30/spendin g_what_ sp nding_114318.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Franklin Delano Roosevelt never denied … were something to be ashamed of. </span>

**New spending upsets key independents - they're okay now but on the brink**
**Gould and Walter ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Martin & Kathleen, Newsmax writers, 7-12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/Gillespie-Obama-economy-leadership/2011/07/12/id/403350]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Voters</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the focus groups … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">very frustrating to these voters.” </span>


**Florida voters hate deficit spending**
**Viewpoint Florida 2/16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Viewpoint Florida is a joint public opinion research effort with Data Targeting Inc. and Public Concepts, LLC. (“Florida voters divided on the urgency - and means - of dealing with deficit”, Viewpoint Florida, Feb 16, 2012, http://viewpointflorida.org/index.php/site/article/florida_voters_divided_on_the_urgency_-_and_means_-_of_dealing_with_deficit/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have a fascinating set of … focus more on raising revenue.</span>


**Florida alone determines the election**
**Stanage 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Niall, The Hill Writer, “Obama, Republicans prepare for 2012 Florida election showdown,” 6/20, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/homenews/news/167239-a-storm-brews-in-florida-ahead-of-2012-election]]</span>, EMM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the 17 months between now … years in </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the Oval Office</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Romney Kills Relations---2NC== 

**Romney destroys relations**
**The Economist 9/1**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Romney Could Screw Up US Relations With Russia” 2012 http://www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romneys-foreign-policy-chops-come-into-light-2012-9</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Romney</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the Republican candidate in the US presidential ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">by malevolent, interfering Western powers.</span>__


=**Oil DA**= 
==**1NC**== 

**Oil prices high and rising**
**Smith 9/11** [Grant. September 11, 2012. Oil Trades Near Three-Week High on Outlook for Economic Stimulus. Bloomberg. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/oil-trades-near-three-week-high-on-outlook-for-economic-stimulus.html]]</span>]
__Oil traded near the highest …__ was at $18.08, compared with $18.27 yesterday.

**That causes Saudi Arabia to flood the oil market and collapse prices**
**MORSE AND RICHARDS 2002** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Edward L. Morse is Executive Adviser at Hess Energy Trading Company and was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy in 1979-81. James Richard is a portfolio manager at Firebird Management, an investment fund active in eastern Europe, Russia, and Central Asia, Foreign Affairs, March/April)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A simple fact explains this … </span>__, mainly to non-OPEC countries.__

**And the plan hurts oil prices even without a flood**
**ZAKARIA 2004**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - PhD in political science from Harvard and former managing editor of Foreign Affairs (Fareed, “Don’t Blame the Saudis,” 9/6, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/090604.html]]</span>)</span>
__The largest ingredient in current …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to be classified as trucks.</span>

**That crushes the Russian economy and undermines support for the regime**
**KRAMER 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – New York Times writer and editor (ANDREW E. “Higher Oil Prices to Pay for Campaign Promises” New York Times March 16, 2012 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/17/business/global/vladimir-putins-big-promises-need-fueling-by-high-oil-prices.html?_r=2?pagewanted=print Putin Needs ajones)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">MOSCOW — In American presidential politics, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">part of Mr. Putin’s stump speech.</span>

**Nuclear war**
**FILGER 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
__In Russia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> historically, </span>__economic health …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">is its least dangerous consequence.</span>


=Steel DA= 

==1NC== 

**China’s steel industry will recover now---but it’s shaky**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rhiannon </span>**Hoyle & Clarke 8/20**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> writers for the Wall Street Journal “For Struggling Steel Industry, China Offers Hope” 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443855804577601403262749264.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Signs of a turnaround in the ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2012 are to be met," Macquarie said.</span>


**The aff revives the US steel industry**
**AAM 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alliance for American Manufacturing Feb 2010 “Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending”, http://www.mcwanebuyamerican.com/pdfs/buyamericanworks.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The deterioration of our industrial base, caused</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in …. successfully compete now and in the years to come.</span>

**That massively undercuts China’s market share---destroys Chinese economic growth**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">George</span>**Haley 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> slashed</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prices, cut U.S. based </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">capacity</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and shifted production and employment overseas to remain price competitive. </span>

**Chinese exports are uniquely key---collapse causes CCP instability, global economic collapse, and US-Sino war**
**Lewis 7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Research Director of the Economic Research Council (Dan, April 19, 2007, “The nightmare of a Chinese economic collapse,” World Finance, http://www.economicpolicycentre.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/The-nightmare-of-a-Chinese-economic-collapse.pdf</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A reduction in</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> demand for </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">imported …. America is pledged to defend</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**
==CCP Impact---2NC== 

**Collapse of the CCP control triggers a nuclear civil war and regional conflicts**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Herbert </span>**Yee & Storey 2**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, p. 5.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fourth factor …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and the world</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==Link Wall---2NC== 

**Buy American is already stipulated**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James</span>**Heintz & Pollin 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Associate Research Professor & Associate Director Robert Pollin Professor of Economics & Co-Director and Heidi Garrett-Peltier Research Assistant At the Political Economy Research Institute January 2009 “How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy: Employment, Productivity and Growth”</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To improve the </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of water treatment works.</span>

==Link Magnifier---2NC== 

**Even little moves matter**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Anthony </span>**David 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is a writer for the Market Oracle, “The Chinese Steel Production Paradox,” http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article36395.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Considering that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China has shown … **that China makes**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Zero-Sum---2NC== 

**Market is zero sum---Chinese increases come at the expense of the US**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Barry</span>**Solarz 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Vice President, Trade and Economic Policy, American Iron and Steel Institute October 6 2010, Oral testimony before the World Trade Organization, http://www.steel.org/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Testimony/2010/Barry_Solarz_Oral_Testimony_Submitted_to_USTR_for_China_WTO_Commitments_Hearing.ashx</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China’s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Massive </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steel </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for American steel producers.</span>
=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soybeans DA</span>= 

==1NC== 



**Transportation investment is key to US soybean competitiveness---Brazil is leading now but the plan guts their advantage**

**USB 11/1**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">United Soybean Board “Five ways U.S. transportation infrastructure could hurt soybean growers” 2012 http://southeastfarmpress.com/soybeans/five-ways-us-transportation-infrastructure-could-hurt-soybean-growers</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Just as </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. soyexports have increased, so has the … **profits** **for U.S. soybean farmers**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Brazilian soybean competitiveness key to US-Brazilian relations---forces them to move towards us instead of China**

**Kinsman 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sam Kinsman is an associate political editor for the Georgia Political Review, 2/28 “Why Brazilian Soybeans are Changing the World” http://www.georgiapoliticalreview.com/why-brazilian-soybeans-are-changing-the-world/</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ni Hao São Paulo. This Mandarin Chinese-Portuguese mixed …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">development inside Brazil, but </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">very dynamics of international relations around the world</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Relations key to preventing hegemonic struggles in Latin America---escalates**

**Meiman & Rothkopf 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kelly Meiman and David Rothkopf are writers for the Center for American Progress, “The United States and Brazil” March http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2009/03/pdf/brazil.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Security While the challenges of Afghanistan, India, Pakistan, the Middle East and the Korean peninsula will continue to monopolize center stage in U.S. national security policy, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we have reentered a time where **… writ large**</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**



**Nuclear war**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James Francis </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rochlin</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 19</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">94</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Professor of Political Science at Okanagan University College. “Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America,” p. 130-131</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While there were economic motivations for Canadian policy in … resolution, such as Contadora, as will be discussed in the next chapter.</span>



==2NC Link Wall== 



**The plan is key to US soybean competitiveness** 

**AASHTO 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials 8/24 “Investment in Transportation Infrastructure Vital to Nation's Farmers, Study Says” http://www.aashtojournal.org/Pages/082412soybean.aspx</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The lack of investment in the nation's</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **deteriorating transportation …** source of soy throughout the world."</span>__



**Investing in transportation is key to US soybean competitiveness**

**ASA 11/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Soybean Association, questions asked to President Obama/Gov. Romney, “American Soybean Association Seeks Presidential Candidate Stances” http://nationalhogfarmer.com/business/american-soybean-association-seeks-presidential-candidate-stances</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transportation and Infrastructure </span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Many **industries depend on our**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nation’s</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for soybean farmers who depend on it to receive inputs and move their product to market.</span>



==2NC Instability Impact== 



**Nuclear war**

**Manwaring 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, “Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare”, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Issue of State Failure. President Chávez also … more they and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity. 65 </span>



==2NC Trade Impact== 



**US-Brazilian relations key to success of multilateral trade**

**Meiman & Rothkopf 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kelly Meiman and David Rothkopf are writers for the Center for American Progress, “The United States and Brazil” March http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2009/03/pdf/brazil.pdf</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">G-8 reform is another potential avenue for U.S.-Brazil … collaboration on foreign policy</span>__**



**Trade and growth solve global nuclear war**

**Panzer 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael, Panzner -- faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of **a new world war**.</span>__