[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Inherency== 
**Freight has fallen into disrepair because of congestion and current policies can’t solve**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**CFAP, 12** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7/14; Center For American Progress; Written by Keith Miller, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/costa-kristina/bio/|Kristina Costa]], and [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/cooper-donna/bio/|Donna Cooper]]. Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and a student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant and Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress. Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the center. She used to be a (extremely successful) deputy mayor for policy for Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/technology/report/2012/08/14/11994/getting-americas-freight-back-on-the-move/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Investing in our ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">of pollution.</span>

**Congestion means that we can’t even grow by 25% -- and a failure on one side of the country will stop trains on the other side. And freight is the key link– other modes cannot pick up the slack.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Tarm, 08** --[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Tarm; Is an Associate Press Writer citing Mathew Rose, CEO of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., Paul Bingham is a transportation analyst at research firm Global Insight, Randy Mullett, an analyst for the nonprofit Transportation Research Board, and Scott Haas, a vice president for United Parcel Service. “AP Impact: US Freight Rail Congestion a Concern.” 5/30/2008.]</span>

Railway executive ... infrastructure."

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freight rail is becoming key, and alleviating congestion is a priority NOW</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamberger 08</span>** [Ed Hamberger, President, Association of American Railroads. “Statement of Ed Hamberger, President and CEO , Association of American Railroads.” Committee on House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. April 23, 2008. ProQuest Congressional.] AP
Looking ahead, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the United States ... in 2006.</span>

==<span style="color: #222222;">Chemicals</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>== 
**Rail key to chemical industry – evidence comes from the companies themselves**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ACC, 08 </span>**-[<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ACC represents the chemical industry of America – an almost trillion dollar industry that is attempting to solve our world problems, [[http://www.americanchemistry.com/Policy/Rail-Transportation|__http://www.americanchemistry.com/Policy/Rail-Transportation__]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Safe, reliable ... </span>drinking water.

**The chemical industry is key to solve extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Baum 99** – </span>Baum, Founder of Chemical and Engineering News Washington, 12-6-99 (Rudy, “MILLENNIUM SPECIAL REPORT,” C&EN Washington, Volume 77, Number 49, http://pubs.acs.org/cen/hotarticles/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Computers and ... </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">needs</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>//

**And it’s key to aerospace**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Delpy and Pike 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor David Delpy FRS, chief executive at Oxford Economics, AND*** Dr. Richard Pike, Ph.D. in chemical sciences, September 2010, “The economic benefits of chemistry research to the UK,” http://www.rsc.org/images/Economic_Benefits_of_Chemistry_Sep_2010_tcm18-191337.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace - </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span> __underestimated.__ 

**Aerospace solves cyberterrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deloitte 12</span>** | <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deloitte is a consulting and financial advisory service, Report Commissioned by the Aerospace Industries Association, " The Aerospace and Defense Industry in the U.S. A financial and economic impact study," March, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/deloitte_study_2012.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The world ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">future threats.</span>
**Great power nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritz 9</span>** | <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament [Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, [[http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">This paper will ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">centres directly.</span>__

**Aerospace is key to solve cruise missile prolif**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gardner 99</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lt Col Igor J.P., School of Advanced Airpower Studies, “THEATER LAND ATTACK CRUISE MISSILE DEFENSE: GUARDING THE BACK DOOR”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">While few ... training.</span>

**Global nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Telegraph 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Reinforced Point Of Contact (RPOC) Meeting, April 10, 2008, Wikileaks Transcript Classified by ISN/MTR Director Pam Durham, February 2, 2011, pg online @ Telegraph)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">21. (C) Additionally ... facilitation. </span>

**Aerospace is key to stability in Asia - the impact is nuclear and biological warfare**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad and Lesser 98</span>** | Counselor @ CSIS, President of Khalilzad Associates, and Former US Ambassador to the UN AND PhD Senior Transatlantic Fellow @ the German Marshall Fund (Zalmay and Ian, "Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century," p.164-165)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The first key ... American response. </span>
**Bioterrorism causes extinction and outweighs nuclear war—we access a higher probability of extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span>** | Past president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, Member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, and M of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons ... this slope?</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Economy</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Double-dip recession by 2013 in status quo </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Andrew Fieldhouse</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 9/19/12, Fieldhouse is an expert in Tax and Budget Policy • Public Economics/ he joined the Economic Policy Institute in June 2010 to work on fiscal policy and progressive budget reform- is an expert on the economy public investment, and macroeconomics- he has provided frequent commentary on the current budget debate for economic recovery, “Avoiding a double-dip recession doesn’t require extending the Bush tax cuts”, http://www.epi.org/publication/avoiding-double-dip-recession-doesnt-require/\ </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Politicians, pundits, ... </span><span class="1cardChar" style="font-size: 12pt;">over the coming year.</span>

**2 Internal Links**
**a) Jobs**
**1 Job created in Freight Rails creates 4.5 Jobs elsewhere** 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAR 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Association of American Railroads, “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” October 2011, http://aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Freight Railroads ... all U.S. exports.</span>

**Job creation is the biggest internal link to the economy—outweighs the deficit**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tyson 11</span>**-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]

__The immediate crisis ...__ <span class="1cardChar" style="font-size: 8pt;">next few years.</span>

**b) Economic Expansion**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Freights key to productive growth, which is uniquely key to economic expansion – ONLY freights can solve for the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Department of Transportation, 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jan 2002 http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The American economy ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">economic performance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Investing in freights is uniquely key to get us back to economic health – we have no other options</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**CFAP, 12** –</span> [7/14; Center For American Progress; Written by Keith Miller, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/costa-kristina/bio/|Kristina Costa]], and [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/cooper-donna/bio/|Donna Cooper]]. Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and a student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant and Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress. Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the center. She used to be a (extremely successful) deputy mayor for policy for Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2012/08/pdf/freight_infrastructure.pdf]
<span class="1underline">//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Concentrating on highway ... </span>//</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the country. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Freight railroads are key to every part of our economy – if it can’t keep up with demand that ensures collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TSA, 12</span>**[Transportation Security Administration, 23 December 2012; http://www.tsa.gov/freight-rail]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Freight railroads ... a whole.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newest studies prove the correlation between economic decline and war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is ... ancillary to those views.</span>
==Plan== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in freight rail with a focus on inter – program planning in the United States.**

==Solvency== 

**Fed is key-**
**a) Only the government has enough capital to improve freight** 
**Sandra <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosenbloom and</span> Martin <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wachs 12</span>**, RAND monographs present major research findings that address the challenges facing the public and private sectors. All RAND mono- graphs undergo rigorous peer review to ensure high standards for research quality and objectivity, “A Federal Role in Freight Planning and Finance”, RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1137.pdf, SA

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Provide Federal Assistance ... surface transpor- tation network.</span>

**b) Coordination**
**Sandra <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosenbloom and</span> Martin <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wachs 12</span>**, RAND monographs present major research findings that address the challenges facing the public and private sectors. All RAND mono- graphs undergo rigorous peer review to ensure high standards for research quality and objectivity, “A Federal Role in Freight Planning and Finance”, RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1137.pdf, SA

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Creating Mechanisms ... interstate I-95).</span>

**Investment should come in hand with inter-program planning**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**CFAP, 12** – </span><span class="1cardChar">[7/14; Center For American Progress; Written by Keith Miller, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/costa-kristina/bio/|Kristina Costa]], and [[http://www.americanprogress.org/about/staff/cooper-donna/bio/|Donna Cooper]]. Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and a student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant and Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress. Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the center. She used to be a (extremely successful) deputy mayor for policy for Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2012/08/pdf/freight_infrastructure.pdf]</span>
<span class="1underline">While many nations ... long term. </span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]