[[toc]]
=[[2012-2013 - Leland (CA) - Shreyas Kamat & Gary Lin|Main]]= 
=Affirmative= 
**The Prelim 1AC is the same thing as the Long Beach one.**
[[Leland KL - Long Beach (CA) - Affirmative|You can go to it by clicking here.]]
=1AC Doubles - Inland Waterways= 
**Doubles 1AC is the same we just added new scenario to the agriculture advantage.**

===Agriculture : Africa=== 


**<span style="font-size: 120%;">US exports heavily to Africa.</span>**
USDA 2010, Foreign Agriculture Services, “Sub-Saharan Africa: A Quietly Emerging Market for U.S. Agricultural Exports”, May 2010, [[http://www.fas.usda.gov/info/NEI/Sub-SaharanAfrica052010.pdf]]

Over the past .... population growth rates in the world


**<span style="font-size: 120%;">Absent plan, high food prices Africa will become unstable with riots and revolutions. The brink is now.</span>**
Bar-Yam et al 11,Yaneer Bar-Yam, Karla Z Bertrand, and Marco Lagi, Professor Yaneer Bar-Yam is Founding President of the New England Complex Systems Institute. His research focuses on developing complex systems concepts and applying them to diverse areas of scientific inquiry and to major social problems. Professor Bar-Yam has advised government agencies, non-governmental organizations and corporations about solving problems using principles and insights from complex systems science. These include The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, a wide variety of healthcare organizations, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the UN, the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, the US military (Navy, Air Force, Army and Department of Defense) and intelligence community (CIA, NSA, TSA) and military and civilian engineering corporations (Boeing, Lockheed-Martin, Raytheon, SAIC). He has advised Congressman Barney Frank as Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Michael Capuano on the financial crises. He is a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He is chairman of the International Conference on Complex Systems (ICCS), managing editor of InterJournal and Springer book series on complexity, and author of over 180 research papers in professional journals, including in Science, Nature, PNAS, American Naturalist, and Physical Review Letters. Professor Bar-Yam received his SB and PhD in physics from MIT in 1978 and 1984 respectively. “The Food Crises and Political Instability in North Africa and the Middle East”, September 28, 2011, [[http://necsi.edu/research/social/food_crises.pdf]]

In 2011 protest ... global food supply system



**<span style="font-size: 120%;">Instability leads to war, conflict, malnutrition, disease, terrorism, and destruction of global security.</span>**
Vincent 9, Brian-Vincent IKEJIAKU Research Institute for Law, Politics and Justice Keele University, “The Relationship between Poverty, Conflict and Development”, Journal of Sustainable Development Vol. 2, No. 1, March 2009, www.ccsenet.org/journal.html

In recent decades .... international terrorist organisations...



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]