[[toc]]
=[[2012-2013 - Leland (CA) - Shreyas Kamat & Gary Lin|Main]]= 
=Negative= 
==Disadvantages== 
===Elections DA=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**It’s Obama’s election to lose**
Bruce <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bartlett, 9/7</span>/12, a columnist and blogger for The Fiscal Times, he was previously a columnist for Forbes Magazine and Creators Syndicate., ”Why Barack Obama Will Win the Election Easily”, The Fiscal Times, http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#Xp7WW6aoxkwQXYMS.99, SA

In short,while it is not impossible ... pull the election out for Romney.

**More deficit spending opens criticism to Obama from Romney**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraushaar, ’12</span>(Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php, JD)

If unemployment was the only factor ... voter dissatisfaction still runs high.


**Romney kills US-Russia relations**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Larison 6/27</span>(Daniel Larison, contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Weekonline, Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago, “U.S.-Russian Relations Would Get Much Worse Under Romney”, http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/u-s-russian-relations-would-get-much-worse-under-romney/)

<span class="1underline">Putin might share some ... than they have in the last year.</span>


**Relations solve accidental nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span> (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409, EMM)

1. Russia's nukes are still an ... do that by working together.

===Status Gap DA=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**The status quo is enabling the “Rise of the Rest”; the U.S. is integrating others in the status quo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berliner 10</span>, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">director at the NDN, 10 – Jake Berliner, Deputy Policy Director of the New Democratic Network’s Globalization Initiative, April 23, 2010, “The Rise of the Rest: How New Economic Powers are Reshaping the Globe,” online: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ndn.org/essay/2010/04/rise-rest-how-new-economic-powers-are-reshaping-globe]]</span>

The structure of the global economy ... representative of the new global economy.

**The plan’s increase of the material power gap collapses hegemony—causes global backlash against U.S. power that makes effective solutions impossible**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maher, Ph.D. in pol sci, 11</span> – Richard Maher, Ph.D. in Political Science from Brown University, Winter 2011, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68

Since the disintegration of the Soviet Union ... position itself in the ‘‘post-unipolar’’ world.
**U.S. acceptance of China’s and Russia’s rising status is key to solving prolif, terrorism, failed states, and the economy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Larson, pol sci prof, 10</span>—Larson & Shevchenko 10 – Deborah Welch Larson, Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Alexei Shevchenko, Assistant Professor of Political Science at California State University, Fullerton, Spring 2010, “Status Seekers: Chinese and Russian Responses to U.S. Primacy,” International Security, Vol. 34, No. 4, p. 63-95

Since the end of the Cold War, scholars and ... otherwise puzzling Chinese and Russian behavior.

===Equity DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**Status quo transportation decisions are based __solely__ on efficiency and costs—this ignores issues of equity and maintains status quo <span style="font-size: 11pt;">hierarchies</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanchez et al, ’03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2003, The Civil RightsProject at Harvard University. Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard., “MOVING TO EQUITY: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before examining the specific ...</span> understood in this broader context<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus is critical to break-down racial inequality—necessary to challenge institutional and structural racism that pervades the status quo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JCPES 11</span> – The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]
Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a ... that willfacilitate real and lasting equity.

**And racism is the root cause of all violence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault in'76</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Michel, Society Must be Defended: Lectures at the College de France, 1975-1976, p. 254-257 Trans. David Macey] </span>

What in fact is racism? It is primarily ... which we belong will become all the purer.

===Aircraft Tradeoff DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**Funding carriers is an opportunity cost to the navy’s strike fighter program- turns the case**
<span class="Underline">**Petersen 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009 http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf)#SPS </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Issue 1: </span><span class="Underline">The Navy is substantially ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of aircraft for one additional squadron.</span>

===Mayport Biodiversity DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**Plan Kills Whales**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peterson 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gordon, Capt. Gordon I. Peterson, U.S. Navy (Ret.) has served as the military legislative assistant for Senator Jim Webb of Virginia since January 2007. He is responsible for liaison to the Senate Armed Services Committee and oversight of military issues relating to all branches of the U.S. armed forces, the senior editor of Sea Power magazine since 1998, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: A Critical Assessment”, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]], Hemanth)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Issue 2: </span>The Navy 's ... <span class="Underline">nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Mayport</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**They’re a keystone species – bigger internal link to biodiversity.**
Zimmer et al 2007 (Richard, Ryan Ferrer, Professors of Biology at UCLA, “Neuroecology, Chemical Defense, and the Keystone Species Concept”, [[http://www.biolbull.org/content/213/3/208.full]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consumption of STX-laden ... </span>communities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carpenter et al., 1985; Myers and Worm, 2003; Bruno and O'Connor, 2005).</span>


**Spills over to cascading biodiversity loss**
McKinney 2003 (Michael, Director of Environmental Studies, University of Texas, PHD from Yale, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false]], Hemanth)

<span class="Underline">Are All Species Equally Important</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? With so ...</span> //should be a priority.//


**Environment collapse Increases risk of extinction- Cross Apply AFF Impact Evidence**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Major David N. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Diner</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , JAG – US Army, MILITARY LAW REVIEW, Winter </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">1994</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.stormingmedia.us/14/1456/A145654.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> By causing widespread </span>extinctions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, humans </span>... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

=== === 

==Counterplans== 
===Delay CP=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**Text: The United States federal government will increase funding to the Defense Access Roads program for transportation infrastructure projects in the United States on November 9, 2012.**

The CP solves 100% of the AFF- non of the affirmatives evidence draws a distinction of time


**And, Our argument is predictable. Congress delays legislation all the time, especially when its an election year**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montogmery</span> **and Bimbaum 2K8**
(Lori and Jeffery, “Political Manuevers delay bill after bill in senate”, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article%20/2008/06/27/AR2008062703409.html?hp%20id=topnews|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article /2008/06/27/AR2008062703409.html?hp id=topnews]]</span>)

The Senate went home ... said [[http://projects.washingtonpost.com/congress/members/g000445/|Sen. Judd Gregg]] (R-N.H.).

===SCS CP=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should build and operate a fleet of SCS aircraft carriers dispersed throughout the US coasts.**


**1. Supercarriers are obsolete—spreading the fleet into a number of small SCS solves the aff better we need to have a “High-Low” strategy to solve for any conflict.**
**Axe 2011** (David, an independent military correspondent based in South Carolina. He has reported from Iraq, Afghanistan, East Timor, Lebanon, Somalia, Chad and other conflict zones, “Are Aircraft Carriers Slowly Becoming Obsolete?”, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/06/are-aircraft-carriers-slowly-becoming-obsolete/]], Hemanth)

For seven decades, they’ve ... according to Hendrix.

===Title VI CP=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**Text:**
**The United States federal government should offer invest funds in the development, deployment, and usage of a Safeguards Transporters for the purpose of transporting type B fissile material if, and only if, the recipient of the investment adopts a decision-making process that evaluates potential disparate impacts of the Safeguards Transporters and implements the plan in accordance with the findings. The United States federal government should withhold funding for Safeguards Transporters if, and only if, the result of the investment violates disparate impact regulations as set forth in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.**


**Solves the whole aff and is key to prevent discrimination—evaluating potential disparate impacts before the implementation and making funding contingent is key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harvard Law Review, ’03</span>[April, 2003, 116 Harv. L. Rev. 1774, “After Sandoval: Judicial Challenges and Administrative Possibilities in Title VI Enforcement”, lexis nexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Federal agencies must adopt alternative </span>... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">effectuate the purposes of Title VI.</span>



**That’s key – an equity impact statement must precede planning and implementation to make transportation infrastructure less racist and more accessible**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levinson '02</span>[David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesoata, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]
Environmental justice is a good beginning ... issue addressed by examining income equity


==Kritiks== 
===Terror Talk K=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**Characterization of terrorists hating freedom and democracy is only to justify colonial expansion. With out the “evil threat” the great power of a state is revealed to what it really is: a discursive characterization to increase biopower.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">L.A. Crowe (York University The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in) Security-Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the 'West' <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span> 2007)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">These elements of oppositional binaries ... of control and coercion.92</span>

**The construction of terror ensures a constant state of emergency, ending in a world wide civil war and extinction**
Diane <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Enns</span>, Philosophy @ Univ. of Toronto, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘4</span> [//Theory and Event// 7.4, “Bare Life and the Occupied Body,” muse-html]

In 1940 Walter <span class="DebateUnderline">Benjamin wrote: "The tradition of the ...</span> maintaining a state of emergency.


**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s representations of “terrorism” which creates an us/them dichotomy, otherwise there will be a self fulfilling prophecy of racism, dehumanization, and war.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">L.A. Crowe (York University The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in) Security-Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the 'West' <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span> 2007)</span>

Discourses of Danger Several problematic ... leitmotiv for universal safety.

===Fear of Death K=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**The affirmatives anxiety towards death is only intelligible from a position of ontological anxiety. Their impact scenarios prevent an authentic relationship to death which makes the fear their 1ac inspires inevitable; we turn case; only by acknowledging the inevitability of death and accepting our fate can we experience “Existential freedom.”**
James<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, </span>University of Minnesota and activist in Unitarian Church,<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">01</span>__</span>Our existential predicament; loneliness, depression, anxiety & death pg. 183-184

<span style="color: black;">The 'fear of death' is a composite ... inner state-of-being "Existential Freedom". </span>

**Their hyperbolized fear creates an endless politics of war and fear thus creating self-fulfilling prophecies and it risks tyranny**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon and Reed 09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(IR professor @ Lancaster University; Lecturer @ King’s College London, “The Liberal Way of Killing: Killing to Make Live”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">There is, third, the additional critical ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">he transactional freedoms of contingency</span>

**<span class="Underline">Alternative: </span>A vote for the alt is a rejection of the affirmatives unaccepting despair of death. We must accept death as inevitable and know; not think; but know that someday we are going to die; only if we do so can we laugh in the face of their death claims and live a meaningful life.**
**Accepting death is key to a meaningful life; we need not despair in the face of death, something the affirmative fails to realize, but rather accept it and live our remaining days as meaningfully as possible.**
**__<span style="font-family: Code2000;">Perrett</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: Code2000;">85</span>__** <span style="font-family: Code2000;">Roy W “Tolstoy, Death and the Meaning of Life;” Philosophy, Vol. 60, No. 232 (Apr.1985,), pp. 231-245</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cambridge University Press </span><span style="font-family: Code2000;">on behalf of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Royal Institute of Philosophy http://www.jstor.org/stable/3751001 </span><span style="font-family: Code2000;">Accessed: 09/01/2011 </span>

The prefiguring of The Death of ... someone will do the same for him.

==Strategy== 
===Round 1: Negative vs. Notre Dame (Mayport)=== 
====1NC==== 
T-Vehicles
Terror Talk K
SCS CP
Aircraft Tradeoff DA
Mayport Biodiversity DA
Case

====2NR==== 
SCS CP
Aircraft Tradeoff DA
Biodiversity DA
Case

===Round 4: Negative vs. La Quinta (Nuclear Material Transport)=== 
====1NC==== 
T-Vehicles
Extra T
Vagueness DA
Terror Talk K
Elections DA
Delay CP
Title VI CP
Equity DA
Case

====2NR==== 
Extra T

===Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)=== 
====1NC==== 
T-Military
Fear of Death K
Delay CP
Elections DA
Status Gap DA
Case

====2NR==== 
Elections DA
Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]