[[toc]]
=[[2012-2013 - Leland (CA) - Shreyas Kamat & Gary Lin|Main]]= 
=Negative= 
**Most of the stuff read at Fullerton was put on the Long Beach page of our wiki, you can get to it by clicking [[Leland KL - Long Beach (CA) - Negative|here]].**

**If you want cites for case stuff just email me at shreyas.kamat95@gmail.com. It would help if you told me what arguments specifically you want me to send you.**
==Counterplans== 
===Sunshades/Startup 2.0 CP=== 
====1NC==== 

**Text: The United States federal government should develop and deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere and should pass the Startup Act 2.0**


**Solves warming**
Victor et al 2009 – a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University (David G., March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf )

Each year, the effects of climate .... late 1940s and 1950s dreamed of doing.


**Counterplan solves economy and leadership**
Hoover 5/25- Washington Bureau Chief <Kent. “Bipartisan Startup Act 2.0 aims to aid entrepreneurs” Business Courier. May 25, 2012. http://www.bizjournals.com/cincinnati/print-edition/2012/05/25/bipartisan-startup-act-20-aims-to-aid.html>//CS

It’s a relaunch, so Startup Act 2.0 is ... jobs,” said Sen. Jerry Moran, R-Kan.

===<span style="text-decoration: none;">Mars Colonization CP </span>=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text:**
**Gary and I ask you to imagine that the United States federal government increases its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States in order to complete a mission to Mars.**

**A mission to Mars solves the Aff better by solving not only Russia otherization, but otherization of all nations—their own 1AC solvency evidence advocates EITHER a Bering Straight or a conquest to Mars, so at worst we solve 100% of the aff, at best we solve better.**
GERLICZ 2009 (By Dr. Claude Gaudeau de Gerlicz, Chair, Bioespas, Bioinformatic and Biotechnology Laboratory, France, “Great Projects as Potential Peace Engines,” March 19, [[http://www.upf.org/bering-strait-project/193-bering-strait-research/1682-great-projects-as-potential-peace-engines]])

Humanity has always sought to gather .... and images we have of nature.

==Kritiks== 
===Lacan K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The modern society of enjoyment perpetuates the idea that, through constant motion, we can eliminate the gap inherent to subjectivity**
McGowan 04 [Todd McGowan. “The End of Dissatisfaction?” State University of New York Press. 2004.] AP

For Kushner, our failure to address .... a state of complete enjoyment.


**The impact is violence – as the fantasy fails the only option is to find an external enemy to blame in order to sustain our internal conception of totality**
Stavrakakis 99 [Yannis Stavrakakis, member of the Essex School of Discourse Analysis. “Lacan & the Political.” Routledge.] AP

In the light of our theoretical framework, .... freedom and social cohesion, it brought totalitarian coercion. (Talmon, 1971:95)


**The alternative is to engage in the Act – in the face of the decision of action presented by the 1AC, we instead make the impossible Third choice to disengage from the moment and reorient ourselves in terms of the problem – only then can we disengage from fantasy**
Zizek 06 [Slavoj Zizek. “The Parallax View.” MIT Press. February 17, 2006.] AP

The universe of cartoons obeys.... of inserting a new possibility into it).


==Strategy== 
===[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 1: Negative vs. Notre Dame (Mayport)]]Round 1: Negative vs. Downtown Magnets (Hybrid Vehicles)=== 
====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 1: Negative vs. Notre Dame (Mayport)-1NC]]1NC==== 
T-Fuel Cells
Delay CP
Elections DA
Sunshades/Startup 2.0 CP
Fear of Death K
Case

====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 1: Negative vs. Notre Dame (Mayport)-2NR]]2NR==== 
Sunshades/Startup 2.0 CP
Case

===[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 4: Negative vs. La Quinta (Nuclear Material Transport)]]Round 3: Negative vs. Downtown Magnets (Hybrid Vehicles)=== 
====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 4: Negative vs. La Quinta (Nuclear Material Transport)-1NC]]1NC==== 
T-Fuel Cells
Delay CP
Elections DA
Sunshades/Startup 2.0 CP
Fear of Death K
EIS CP
Equity DA
Case

====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 4: Negative vs. La Quinta (Nuclear Material Transport)-2NR]]2NR==== 
Elections DA
Case

===[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)]]Round 6: Negative vs. Torry Pines (CCS)=== 
====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)-1NC]]1NC==== 
T-Pipelines
Elections DA
Sunshade/Startup 2.0 CP
Fear of Death K
Case

====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)-2NR]]2NR==== 
Case


===[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)]]Quarterfinals: Negative vs. St. Vincent De Paul (Bearing Strait)=== 
====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)-1NC]]1NC==== 
T-Investment
T-It's
Extra T
Political Action DA
Mars Colonization CP
Lacan K
Case

====[[#Negative-Strategy-Round 5: Negative vs. Juan Diego (Defense Access Roads)-2NR]]2NR==== 
Lacan K
Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]