[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Infrastructure Bank 1AC
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States federal government should establish and capitalize a national transportation infrastructure bank.</span>
Advantage 1
Contention 1 is Growth
<span style="font-size: 16px;">It’s on the brink of collapse: </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Double-dip recession by 2013</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Andrew Fieldhouse, 9/19/12, Fieldhouse is an expert in Tax and Budget Policy • Public Economics/ he joined the Economic Policy Institute in June 2010 to work on fiscal policy and progressive budget reform- is an expert on the economy public investment, and macroeconomics- he has provided frequent commentary on the current budget debate for economic recovery, “Avoiding a double-dip recession doesn’t require extending the Bush tax cuts”, http://www.epi.org/publication/avoiding-double-dip-recession-doesnt-require/\</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Politicians, pundits, and … growth over the coming year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Austerity triggers collapse- only investment can ensure steady growth </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mark Thoma 1/9/13, MARK THOMA is a macroeconomist and time-series econometrician at the University of Oregon. His research focuses on how monetary policy affects the economy, and he has also worked on political business cycle models. Mark is currently a fellow at The Century Foundation, “What can Washington do to boost the U.S. economy?”, CBS News, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-57562935/what-can-washington-do-to-boost-the-u.s-economy/, SA</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(MoneyWatch) As we enter … are another story.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Infrastructure failure undermines the economy- only increased investment can solve </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">William A. Galston and Korin Davis December 2012,12/13/12, “Setting Priorities, Meeting Needs: The Case for a National Infrastructure Bank, Brookings Institute”, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/12/13%20infrastructure%20galston%20davis/1213_infrastructure_galston_davis.pdf, SA</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inadequacies in infrastructure … even five years ago. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">3 Internal Links: </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">First is Jobs</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">ChristopherAlessi 11, 9/8/11, Associate writer for the Council of Foreign Relationship, “Banking on U.S. Infrastructure Revival”, http://www.cfr.org/economics/banking-us-infrastructure-revival/p25782</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S. President Barack … economic growth.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Job creation is the biggest internal link to the economy </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tyson 11-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, DKP]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">T</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">he immediate crisis </span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> next few years.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Second is the private sector, </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Austerity destroys the private sector</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jillian Berman, 7/31/12, “American Enterprise Institute: U.S. Austerity Measures Hurting Broader Economy”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/30/cutting-government-spending_n_1719675.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Austerity lovers of … high unemployment.</span>
Third is Competitiveness

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Status quo infrastructure hamstrings economic competitiveness- the NIB is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Puentes 11(Robert, Senior Fellow at the Brookings institution “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Most experts agree … __in the United States.__</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Economic collapse causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf, AM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Increased Potential for … more dog-eat-dog world.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Newest studies prove the correlation between economic decline and war </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Less intuitive is … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 16px;"> ancillary to those views.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Economic strength prevents __great power war__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">SanjayaBaru 2009is a Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 163 - 168</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hence, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 16px;">economic policies …</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> the current context. </span>


Advantage 2
Contention 2 is Manufacturing

Highway investment is failing and it wrecks the economy- most recent studies prove
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reuters</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, a News agency, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">1/15/13</span>, Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, “Study: Infrastructure Troubles Could Cost U.S. 3.5M Jobs by 2020?”, http://www.foxbusiness.com/economy/2013/01/15/study-infrastructure-troubles-could-cost-us-35m-jobs-by-2020/, SA

A study released<span class="1underline"> on … automobile fuel efficiency rises.</span>


Inefficiency is the root cause of failure
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cooper et. al 12</span>, Keith Miller, Kristina Costa, and Donna Cooper, September 2012, Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, Kristina Costa is Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress- she also conducts research and writes on Social Impact Bonds and other topics in government reform. She has presented on Social Impact Bonds domestically and internationally, Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center, “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness”, American Progress, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf, SA

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Despite inadequate funding … formula from 83 percent to 92.6 percent. 19</span>

**Highway Trust Fund is set to run out – no plans to renew it**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Latta 12 </span>8/31 - Editor-in-Chief of Better Roads magazine (John, 8/31/12, “How much life does the Highway Trust Fund have left?,” http://www.equipmentworld.com/how-much-life-does-the-highway-trust-fund-have-left/)
__We know the simplicity …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> these accounts up until 2015.</span>


Only the NIB can leverage sufficient capital
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Department of the Treasure and The Council of Economic Advisors 10</span> (October 21st, “AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic policy/Documents/infrastructure_investment_report.pdf)//

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Not all infrastructure … up-front investments.</span>


Highway investment is vital to U.S. manufacturing
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hermann 11</span>– President American Society of Civil Engineers, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE (Andrew, 2011, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector,” lexis//um-ef)

<span class="1underline">ASCE commends the Joint …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> federal leadership in infrastructure;</span>


Manufacturing decline triggers unchecked Chinese rise- that triggers Taiwan and South China Sea conflict
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mosher 6</span> Steven is the President of the Population Research Institute. “CHINESE INFLUENCE ON U.S. FOREIGN POLICY THROUGH U.S. EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, MULTILATERAL ORGANIZATIONS AND CORPORATE AMERICA: HEARING BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,” Feb 14, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/intlrel/hfa26076.000/hfa26076_0f.htm
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ruthless mercantilism … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">presence in the region.</span>
Taiwan conflict causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Straits Times 2k</span>, June 25, 2000 (Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan. Straits Times. Lexis | SWON)

THE high-intensity scenario … see the destruction of civilisation<span class="1underline">.</span>


South China Sea Conflict triggers war that causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wittner 11</span> (Lawrence S. Wittner, Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany, Wittner is the author of eight books, the editor or co-editor of another four, and the author of over 250 published articles and book reviews. From 1984 to 1987, he edited Peace %26 Change, a journal of peace research., 11/28/2011, "Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?", www.huntingtonnews.net/14446-http://www.huntingtonnews.net/14446)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While nuclear weapons … working to encourage these policies.</span>


Manufacturing is critical to US defense industrial base
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thompson, ’11</span> [2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, “Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Last week, the federal …</span><span class="1underline"> decline in manufacturing.</span>


That’s key to military effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Eaglen and Sayer 09</span> [May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, “Maintaining the Superiority of America’s Defense Industrial Base,” pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Foundation of American … of potential operations.</span>


Deterrence de-escalates all conflicts
Paul <span style="font-size: 16px;">Robinson 1</span>, president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” 3/22/2001, http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I served as an … choice would be in our hands.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bioterror attack coming by 2013—high probability</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sharoff 2011</span>[“Bioterrorism: Growing Threat, Inadequate Budget.” November 14, 2011. http://gppreview.com/2011/11/14/bioterrorism-growing-threat-inadequate-budget/]
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Many officials who … out several attacks). </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">That spreads globally in six weeks—multiple warrants </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Levy 7 </span>[Janet Ellen, The American Thinker. “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html] BW
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Immediately following 9-11, … disease is able to spread. </span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">US will respond to bioterror with nuclear weapons- that goes global </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">IRC 01</span>(11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC, http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nuclear deterrence is a … the U.S. a pariah state. </span>


Manufacturing prevents bioterror
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan et al 03</span> – (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson Organic Materials Department, Ramona L. Myers Nuclear Safety Assessment Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review “September 2003, http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf)

<span class="1underline">Perhaps </span>the <span class="1underline">most unique …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to any one of these fields.</span>

Solvency
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 3 is Solvency </span>

Only the NIB can solve- federal investment is key to attract investment and effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cooper et. al 12</span>, Keith Miller, Kristina Costa, and Donna Cooper, September 2012, Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, Kristina Costa is Speechwriter to the Chair and Counselor at American Progress- she also conducts research and writes on Social Impact Bonds and other topics in government reform. She has presented on Social Impact Bonds domestically and internationally, Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center, “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness”, American Progress, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf, SA

[An] <span class="1underline">national infrastructure …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to policymakers. (see box on following page)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The NIB is the most effective solution to US infrastructure crisis—European Investment Bank proves </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lind 9-Policy Director of the Economic Growth Program at the </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_America_Foundation|New America Foundation]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">B.A. in English and History, University of Austin, Texas, M.A. in International Relations from Yale University, J.D., University of Texas Law School, Assistant to the Director of the U.S. State Department’s </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Center_for_the_Study_of_Foreign_Affairs&action=edit&redlink=1|Center for the Study of Foreign Affairs]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,Editor of New American Contract, and a columnist for </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salon_magazine|Salon magazine]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">. Lind was a guest lecturer at Harvard Law School and has taught at </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johns_Hopkins|Johns Hopkins]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Tech|Virginia Tech]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">. He has been an editor or staff writer at The New Yorker, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harper%27s_Magazine|Harper's Magazine]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_Republic|The New Republic]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> and </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_National_Interest|The National Interest]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">. Lind has published a number of books on U.S. history, political economy, foreign policy and politics[Michael, McKinsey Quarterly, “The right way to invest in infrastructure,” December 2009, http://mkqpreview1.qdweb.net/The_right_way_to_invest_in_infrastructure_2484, DKP]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Along with advanced … __theworst hit by unemployment.__</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">There are no prior questions to problem oriented IR- empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Owen 2(David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium, Vol 31, No 3)</span>
Commenting on the ‘philosophical …<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> vicious circle arises.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]