[[toc]]
=Critiques= 
==Security== 
===1NC=== 
**The affirmative’s representation of security is inaccurate and causes action-reaction cycles, which are the root of violence and make extinction inevitable.**
**Der Derian 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch, nor </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">commands the</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">disciplinary </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.


**Vote negative to reject the dominant framing of security. A renewed focus on the epistemological, discursive, and representational security lens is a prerequisite to effective policy solutions**
**Bruce ‘96**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Associate Professor in Social Science – Curtin University and Graeme Cheeseman, Senior Lecturer – University of New South Wales, Discourses of Danger and Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>
==Competitiveness== 
===1NC=== 

**The affirmative’s discourse of competitiveness perpetuates a hegemonic framing of economic debates that allows for the economic determination of who lives and who dies.**
**SCHOENBERGER 98**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Erica, Geography and Envt’l Engineering @ Johns Hopkins “Discourse and practice in human geography” Progress in Human Geography 22 (1)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second theme I want to draw on has to do with the ways in </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__is accepted and even imitated by people in other spheres entirely is remarkable.__

**Makes extinction inevitable – economic competition simply for competition’s sake causes a never-ending drive for annihilation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schandorf 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - B.A. in English, 1999. M.A. in English (Rhetoric & Composition), 2008. (Michael, A RHETORIC OF RESOLUTION: THE LIMITS OF COMPETITION, May 2008, p. 1-3, https://www.mhsl.uab.edu/dt/2008m/schandorf.pdf)</span>
__An overreliance on__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a foundational conceptual model of </span>__competition__ **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">exacerbates</span>__** __and, all too often__
__AND__
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">scale ecosystems</span>__** __through the excesses of economic globalization, this is a problem.__


**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s discourse of economic nationalism and re-conceptualize it within a cooperative framework.**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schandorf 8</span> - B.A. in English, 1999. M.A. in English (Rhetoric & Composition), 2008. (Michael, A RHETORIC OF RESOLUTION: THE LIMITS OF COMPETITION, May 2008, p. 98-100, https://www.mhsl.uab.edu/dt/2008m/schandorf.pdf)

__Epistemology and ethics are functions of the conceptual frames generated through and constituted by metaphor__
__AND__
__) is actively limited, at best – and denied where it exists__.
==Virilio== 
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**1NC**</span>=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics**</span>
**Virilio, 1997**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 81-83) //BZ//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But let us get back to Europe’s great engineering projects and the political significance of </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to enable messages instantaneously trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction— Our alternative is a rejection of speed to create a new frame for politics** </span>//
//**Sykes, 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) </span>//BZ
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In Virlio’s view, </span>the war machine<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is the </span>demiurge of technological development<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and an </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
We must politicize speed<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>
==Give Back the Land <3 DSchexy== 
===1NC=== 

**Their silence is strategic. The affirmative fails to consider Native America because doing so would force a confrontation with a colonial history that undermines their ostensibly progressive agenda. To the extent that the affirmative invests in transportation infrastructure, they do so on stolen land. The aff relies on a distribution of wealth that derives from the continuing genocide of indigenous peoples. This means that the plan can only ever amount to colonialism in another form.**

**__Churchill 96__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ward, Codirector of The Colorado Chapter of The American Indian Movement, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at The University of Colorado/Boulder, “I Am Indigenist, from a Native Son Pgs 520-30”, DS) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I’ll debunk some of this nonsense in a moment, but first I want to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__, sexist, classist, homophobic, militaristic order on non-Indians.__

**Any attempts to effect change for Native Americans within a statist framework will ultimately serve to further mask the cultural genocide they endure.**

**__Churchill 4__ -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WARD CHURCHILL, NATIVE AMERICAN ACTIVIST AND PROLIFIC AUTHOR, APRIL 2004 [“DISMANTLING THE POLITICS OF COMFORT” //SATYA MAGAZINE//]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That's looking for a painless fix again. </span>__Power and leverage in the traditional sense__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ability to project power on a global basis has no historical precedent.</span>

**And independently, the affirmatives representation of an end-all nuclear holocaust that will happen “out-there” and “by them” is violent. It allows for the omission of nuclear violence and extermination through the use of nuclear testing and war maintained by the 1st world to the 4th world—that’s inclusive of natives.**

**__Kato 93__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Masahide, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze”, Alternatives, 18:3 [1993: Summer], pg. 347-349, IWren/JT)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let us recall our earlier discussion about the critical historical conjuncture where the notion of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">happening in the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations almost on a daily basis.</span>

**Genocide is not a top-down administered atrocity but is instead culturally cultivated through grass-roots movements and representations. Individual complicity with genocidal movements is critical to their success.**

**__Levene 0__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark, University of Warwick, 11 2 20 00, “Why is the Twentieth Century the Century of Genocide?”, DS)</span>

__An obvious conclusion one might wish to draw from this picture is that perpetrators of__
__AND__
__programs for a radical reshaping of society, were critical to these outcomes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The continuing genocide of Native America puts all life on earth at risk.**
**__Friedberg 0__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lilian, Author and Political Activist with a Master's Degree in The Humanities from The University of Chicago and is Currently a Doctoral Candidate in Germanic Studies at The University of Illinois at Chicago, 2000, “Dare to Compare: Americanizing The Holocaust”, The American Indian Quarterly . 24 3 2000 ( 353-380), DS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is not to deny or diminish the clear and present danger in the ominous </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and sealed its own fate on this continent as that of //homo sacer//:</span>

**Thus, our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s proposal for the extension of state power in favor of a politics aimed at the decolonization of North America. Politics invariably requires the establishment of priorities – ours should be this: First Priority to First Americans. Recognizing this imperative demonstrates that a simple reformation of U.S. colonialism is an insufficient remedy to centuries of genocidal affairs. Only dismantling the United States all together liberates Native America and us all from the grip of its imperial chokehold.**

**__Churchill 96__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ward, Codirector of The Colorado Chapter of The American Indian Movement, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at The University of Colorado/Boulder, “I Am Indigenist, from a Native Son Pgs -89-94”, DS) </span>

__The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenous land claims__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially </span>__in the__
__AND__
__realism.” Isn’t it time we all went to work on attaining it?__

**We should embrace our alternatives call for impossible realism of the United States off the planet as a first priority. In order to call for liberation from the colonial yoke of imperialist thought we must start with the decolonization of our own mind. To challenge imperialism abroad we must start by challenging imperialism here at home. It is the call to return the land, which will be echoed by the endorsement of our vision. Change is impossible if we allow the oppressor to tell us what is realistic. You are with genocide or against it - there is no middle ground and you must make the choice now are you for or against genocide.**

**__Churchill 3__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ward, Codirector of The Colorado Chapter of The American Indian Movement, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at The University of Colorado/Boulder, “Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader 263-5”, DS) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now, by way of closing, </span>__I’d like to take up the question of__
__AND__
__of history.” If so, the possibilities which present themselves are limitless.__

===__Framework__=== 

**Discourse shapes the way we frame problems and policies—we control the uniqueness to their roleplaying good arguments—this is a disad to their framework**
**__Adams 11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *Lecturer in Education and Program Director, Centre for Educational Studies, Univ. of Hull</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With such concerns, and many others in mind, it has become fashionable to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__frame of predetermined potentialities, the subject is said to exercise agentic action__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===__Link- Economy__=== 
**The relationship between Native Americans and the federal government is one of economic and cultural colonialism that is empirically entrenched in a system that keeps Natives content rather than self-sufficient—the affirmative’s attempt at helping those in need will inevitably keep Indians on reservations and strengthen colonial dominance**

**__Bee and Gingerich 77__ -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ROBERT BEE AND RONALD GINGERICH. “COLONIALISM, CLASSES, AND ETHNIC IDENTITY: NATIVE AMERICANS AND THENATIONAL POLITICAL ECONOMY”. 1977. UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (STORRS). PP.72 </span>

__The structural relationship that has emerged between American Indian reservation communities and the national political__
__AND__
__the dependency relationships of the emerging internal-colonial structure were becoming stronger.__

==Capitalism== 
===1NC Generic Skeleton=== 
**Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported**
**Giddens and Held 82** (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)//RSW

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">7. </span>Policies which pursue the goal of reorganizing, maintaining and generalizing exchange relationships
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the capitalist state against the obstructive resistance of the capitalist class itself.</span>

**Capitalism is imperialism—it fuels a genocidal foreign policy that threatens global destruction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, co-editor of Monthly Review, professor of sociology at the University of Oregon, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John, “The new Age of Imperialism,” Monthly Review 55.3] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, it is clear that </span>in the present period of global
AND
will prove to be its own<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--we hope not</span> the world's—undoing
===1NC Alt- Johnston=== 
**Our alternative is to withdrawal from the ideology of capital. Our refusing belief in the system short circuits the way capitalism functions.**
**__Johnston 4__** (Department of Philosophy University of New Mexico, December, “The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Zizek and the Dynamics of Belief, International Journal of Zizek Studies,” http://www.zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/8/24, DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the basis of Lacanian theory, </span>__one could argue that an act is something__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">comforting fiction (“Capitalist commodity fetishism or the truth? I choose fetishism.”). </span>
===1NC Alt- Badiou=== 
**Thus our alternative is an affirmation of the Communist Hypothesis. Every ethical decision – up to the ballot itself – should be infused with all of the significance of humanity’s destiny. The question regarding the plan is “does it confirm or contradict the communist hypothesis.” If we win a link argument, you should reject the affirmative because they reduce life to a barbaric ratrace and stand opposed to universal emancipation.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alain </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Badiou</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former Chair of Philosophy at École normale supérieure, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [The Meaning of Sarkozy, pp. 97-103] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I would like to situate the Sarkozy episode, which is not an impressive page </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the moment at which we find ourselves in the history of this hypothesis.</span>
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC Alt- Carroll</span>=== 
**Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.**

**The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy**
**Carroll 10 –** *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the question </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

===2NC Overview=== 
**The alternative does not abandon capitalism but demands that any attempt o is preceded by a new discursive framing.** **This opens up new ways of interacting with transportation planning and is**<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a prior question to sustaining economic productivity.</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Wilson ‘08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Wilson, Senior Researcher, Orkestra-Basque Institute of Competitiveness and Lecturer, Deusto Business School, “Territorial Competitiveness and Development Policy,” May 2008, [[http://www.tips.org.za/files/Wilson_James_Paper.pdf]], pp. 25-27, online, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Viewing competitiveness measures as a subset of the broad range of measures of economic progress </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of economic progress more appropriate for today and tomorrow’s territorial development policy challenges.</span>

**Kritik turns the case— The focus on constructing transportation infrastructure is embedded in a hegemonic capitalist ideology that ignores maintenance efforts, gutting solvency and resulting in serial policy failure**
**Doel and Hubbard ‘02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marcus Doel, Professor of Human Geography at University of Wales, and Phil Hubbard, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Geography at the University of Loughborough, “Taking world cities literally: Marketing the city in a global space of flows,” CITY, Vol. 6, No. 3, 2002, pp. 362-364, Taylor and Francis, online, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What we are suggesting here—that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the city can attend to its own position </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">economy, urban politics need to become both truly transnational and fully intransitive.</span>
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AT: Framework</span>=== 
**Knowledge itself is an instrumental commodity. Their interpretation would turn us all into technocrats incapable of autonomous thought, facilitating the functioning of capital.**
<span class="BoldUnderliningChar">**Fotopoulos**,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">political philosopher and economist, 20</span>**<span class="BoldUnderliningChar">08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Takis, The International Journal of INCLUSIVE DEMOCRACY, Vol. 4, No. 4 (October 2008), http://www.inclusivedemocracy.org/journal/vol4/vol4_no4_takis_academic_rep_PRINTABLE.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The transnational elite</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in neoliberal modernity, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">works on a pilot scheme on education</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">or indirect privatization of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> European </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">universities is making such schizophrenic identities increasingly frequent.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link- Roads</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Roads are arranged based on class distinctions – only those on the lower spectrum experiences ecological damage</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Parenti 11** (Michael, PhD in political science from Yale, one of the nations’ leading political analysts, “Profit Pathology and Disposable Planet”, Michael Parenti political archive, http://www.michaelparenti.org/capitalism%20apocalypse.html)</span>

Isn't ecological disaster a threat to the health and survival of corporate plutocrats just as
AND
society needs the timber; lumberjacks need the jobs, and so on.

===Link- Hegemony=== 

**Hegemony is a means of spreading global capitalism.**
**Ferguson '04** (Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, 2004, "Colossus: The Rise and Fall of the American Empire, pg. 10)
To the majority of Americans<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it would appear, </span>there is not contradiction between
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Yet </span>the very act of imposing "freedom" simultaneously subverts it.

===Link- Environment=== 

**The affirmative’s strategy of environmental protection is a campaign of global capital, their ecological reform simply shifts consumerist ideology into the environment which renders everything into capital to be consumed.**

**Luke**, Department of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, **1997** Timothy W., The (Un)Wise (Ab)Use of Nature: Environmentalism as Globalized Consumerism? http://www.cddc.vt.edu/tim/tims/Tim528.htm

All of these environmentalizing initiatives reveal different aspects of Nature's infrastructuralization in the disorganized and
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in their (un)wise (ab)use of environmentalized resources.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link- Rail</span>=== 

**The rail system is rooted in capitalist exploitation**
**Marrs 8** (Aaron W., on the editorial staff at the Office of the Historian, United States Department of State, Ph.D. from the University of South Carolina, “Roads and Time Consciousness in the Antebellum South”, Enterprise and Society, Muse)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Business and economic historians have contributed substantially to our understanding of "clock consciousness."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
with a wide range of partners in order for the railroad to function.

===Link- Race=== 
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A focus on whiteness trades off with the material oppression that capitalism has caused to produce racism.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Koshy 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [assistant professor in the Asian American Studies Department at the University of California, 1 , “Morphing Race into Ethnicity: Asian Americans and Critical Transformations of Whiteness”, Duke University Press, Project Muse //liam]</span>
Whiteness studies has focused primarily on the historical emergence of liminal European groups (the
AND
of agency that account for complicity and resistance within this intermediary racial group.

===Link- Discourse=== 
**The post-al left’s insistence on discourse as the determining factor in revolution obscures the motion of capital: we are so busy self identifying and theorizing that we ignore the elites seizing power and resources.**
**__Zavarzadeh 94__** – Syracuse University Department of English (Mas’ud, editor of Transformation: Marxist Boudary Work in theory, economics, politics and culture—a biquarterly published by the not for-profit Maisonneuve Press, College Literature Vol 21 Issue 3, “The Stupidity That Consumption is Just as Productive as Production: In the Shopping Mall of the Post-Al Left,” DS)

__The task__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this text </span>__is to lay bare the structure of assumptions and its__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not get a political or philosophical argument but a tropological description.[6] </span>
=== === 
===**Link- Narratives**=== 
**The affirmative is a prime example of the multicultural politics that is driving force of capital today. It is the left’s insistence on understanding individual narratives of oppression that forecloses a politics of truth necessary to undermine the workings of modern capitalism.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean 5</span> (Jodi, Professor of Poly Sci at Hobbert and Williams Smith Colleges, Zizek against Democracy, available online, DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This right-wing detour, then, emphasizes Zizek’s notion of universal partisan Truth</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">transformed rather than merely the moment when rage combusted into violence and looting. </span>
===Link- Trade=== 
**Their attempt to simplify trade with far away places ‘virtualizes’ relationships of commodity – this turns people into goods and gears the economy up for inevitable collapse**
**Hart 01** Faculty of University of Aberdeen, Scotland(Keith, “Money in an unequal world”, 9/1/01, Anthropological Theory 1:307, Sage SW)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Virtual means ‘as good as’. All communication, whether the exchange of words </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">categories developed by classical political economy at the beginning of the machine revolution.</span>
[We do not endorse the gendered language of this evidence]
===Link- Space=== 
**The exploration and development of space is smoke screen for the expansion of capitalism, a short-term solution to economic and societal crisis on Earth. The militarization of space leading to space wars over resources and the development of markets in the cosmos is an inevitable consequence of the aff.**
**__Dickens 10__** -- teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead of indulging in over-optimistic and fantastic visions, we should take a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">space between nations and companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”</span>

===Link- Get Off the Rock=== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Their calls to leave Earth only advance the agendas of private corporations’ development of space. Even if we did leave the rock it would only be the elite that would be able to.** </span>
**__Dickens and Ormrod__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton** </span>__7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter and James, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe pg 156-7, DS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This kind of crisis in supply is not usually, however, one in which </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__particular societies, particular sectors of the population and particular species and ecological systems__
===Link- ISS Coop=== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Capitalism makes transformative co-operation impossible—privatization and militarism will prefigure the terms of cooperation.** </span>
Patrick **__Salin, 2001__**, Doctor of civil law at McGill University, “Privatization and militarization in the space business environment”, McGill University, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964600000503

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have tried to underline </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the close connection</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that exists </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">between privatization and militarization</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">explored further and given much more attention than they are now</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [48]. </span>
===Link- Competitiveness=== 
**The pursuit of competitiveness is over-determined by economic rationality that increases in inequality**
**__Brown 2__** – Professor of Sociology at the University of Maryland (Richard Harvey, “Rhetoric and Public Affairs,” project muse)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The intrusion of market rationality into formerly autonomous social spheres, like nonprofit hospitals, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">these factors narrow public space and the possibilities of informed, active citizenship.</span>
===Impact- Ethics=== 
**Resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible.**
**Zizek and Daly 2k4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.

===Impact- Root Cause=== 
**Capitalism is the cause of every single war in the modern era.**
**__Bordiga 91__** (Amadeo, writer for an Italian newspaper and economics founder of Italy’s communist party, “appeared in 1991 but was written in the 60’s”, http://www.sinistra.net/lib/upt/intpap/piso/pisohbiboe.html)

__According to marxism, not only it is true that in the capitalist era wars__
__AND__
__being the crucial point) common to friends and enemies, winners and losers__

===Impact- V2L=== 
**Capitalism kills value to life.**
**Sancho, ’11** __–__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">chair of the Annual World Conferences on the Science of Duality</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Louis Sancho; “Fukyshima: Dying for Japan Inc.;” published 3/29/2011; http://www.cerntruth.com/?p=257 ] Jay</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I know you don’t believe me. I know you think and believe the ‘</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">top), we can interpret the world as it is, including Fukushima.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Impact- Warming</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The capitalist drive towards profits is the root cause of global warming.**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster </span>0<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>** (John Bellamy, Professor of Sociology at University of Oregon, Ecology Against Capitalism - Statistical Data Included)

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Capitalist economies are geared first and foremost to the growth of profits, and hence</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">problem, which mainly has to do with the emission of fossil fuels</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Corporate control of the environment means that capitalism assures extinction</span>**
**Zizek** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana </span>**1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 350-351</span>

__This__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">already</span>__brings us to the second aspect of our critical distance towards risk society__
__AND__
__accepted by all parties and, as such, more and more depoliticized.__

**Capitalism is the root cause of global warming and propels multiple scenarios for environmental catastrophe- ends in extinction- technology is irrelevant- only social transformation can solve.**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yixian ‘6</span>__</span>__,__ (Writer for Guerilla News Network, __Our Greatest Gift, Our Most Terrible Curse__, http://yixian.gnn.tv/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But its application has been found to be rather grander than this. </span>__The Second__
__AND__
__history; down one path, destruction, down the other, survival.__

===**Impact- Imperialism/Root Cause**=== 
**Capitalism is inherently violent and imperialistic. Their refusal to question to system drives the wars they are trying to prevent.**
**Callicinos, 03** (Alex, BA and DPhil from the University of Oxford, and was Professor of Politics at the University of York before being appointed Professor of European Studies at King's College London, “An Anti-Capitalist Manifesto”, p.51-53)

__The view____,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> put forward by Third Way ideologues such as Anthony Giddens and Ulrich</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__vis the rest of the world, in other words, of imperialism.__

===AT: Perm=== 
**The politics of communism is incompatible with the state. Any such attempt inevitably leads to the corruption of revolutionary politics. The time for looking to the state to implement change has passed; it is now the time for the proletariat to shape the world**
**Balso**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Poetry at the European Graduate School, </span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Judith, “The Idea of Communism,” edited by Slavoj Zizek and Costas Douzinas, pgs 25-26, AU)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politics proceeds on its own: I want to unpack that statement -with reference </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to conjure war away, and when no State desires peace any longer?</span>
===AT: Cede the Political=== 
**Their “cede the political” argument would only make sense if it were possible to survive in a capitalist world. Reform contributes to the illusion that only quick fixes are needed. We need to admit that rejecting capitalism is our only hope means there’s only a risk the alternative solves better.**
**Duchrow, 95** (Ulrich Duchrow, professor of systematic theology at the University of Heidelberg specialising in ecumenical theology and theology-economy issues. “Alternatives to Global Capitalism,” p. 230-234)

__If one affirms life__ __and life-bringing economic systems, then one must reject__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">spiritual side is not one of many dimensions but decisive for the whole. </span>
===AT: Reform/Engage State=== 
**The state forces a politics of defeatism that plagues the left at the “end of history.” that settles for third way democratic politics, in hopes of modestly reducing status quo inequality. The barbaric violence of late capitalism obligates us to devote ourselves to lost causes.**
**Zizek 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In Defense of Lost Causes page 2</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with regard to the old distinction between doxa (accidental/empirical opmion, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">speaks from within this Leap of Faith —but why? of course,</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AT: Gibson Graham</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gibson-Graham’s argument is nothing more than an appeal to liberal reforms within capitalism—this short circuits the necessity of revolutions and is mere apologist for capitalism</span>**
**Poitevin, PhD Cand Sociol @ UC-Davis, 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rene Francisco, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, The Socialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But by far the most anticlimactic and disappointing outcome of the postmodern Marxist approach is </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">all, but rather, as the exact fulfillment of that commitment.50</span>


===**AT: Cap Inevitable**=== 
**Capitalism is only inevitable if we support it – rejection solves**
**Carroll 10** – founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at <span style="line-height: 1.5;">the University of Victoria</span>
(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Interface 2:2, SW)</span>

__Counter-hegemony__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as distinct from defensive forms of subaltern resistance, </span>__strives to__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a great variety of morbid symptoms appear (1971: 275-6).</span>


**The alternative is try or die – capitalism will inevitably collapse – only a transition now prevents extinction.**
**Monbiot, 04** (George Monbiot, Professor of Philosophy at Bristol and Professor of Politics at Keele. Author, columnist, and political activist. “Manifesto for a New World Order.” p. 238)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">None of the measures proposed in this book are sufficient, however, to address</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__paid only by generating value, capitalism seems destined to destroy the planet.__

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The choice is revolution or nuclear war, capitalism must be destroyed to preserve humanity.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Callinicos 4</span>** [Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Capitalism has not changed its spots. It is still based on the exploitation of</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If Marxism is correct, then we must act on it.</span>

===AT: Cap Sustainable=== 
**Cap unsustainable in the long term—propping it up in the short term leads to military repression, environmental degradation, poverty, and lower living standards**
**Harvey 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - David, Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York (CUNY), Director of The Center for Place, Culture and Politics, PhD in geography from Cambridge</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Organizing for the Anti-Capitalist Transition”, Talk given at the World Social Forum 2010, http://globalization.gc.cuny.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/OrganizingtheAnti.pdf, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The historical geography of capitalist development is at a key inflexion point in which the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">system ought, therefore, to be in the forefront of current debate. </span>