[[toc]]
=NFL Districts= 
==Round 2 vs. Fayetteville EG (Bering Strait)== 
**Advantages: Integration, RFE**

**1NC:** Security K, T- In = Throughout, Immigration Reform DA, Russia War Good, Case
**2NC:** T, Case
**1NR:** DA
**2NR:** DA + Case

==Round 4 vs. Bentonville BM (Quantum Teleportation)== 
**Advantages: Food (water wars, food shortages), Coop (SciDip), Quantum Security (cyber attacks)**

**1NC:** Capitalism K, T-TI=Physical Transportation, T- Sub=556 bil, Immigration Reform DA, Wheat Rust CP, Case
**2NC:** K, T, CP
**1NR:** DA, Case
**2NR:** CP + DA


=State TOC= 
==Round 1 vs. Cabot CH (Icebreakers)== 
**Advantages: Shipping, Science, Smuggling. idek.. there weren't really any impacts.**

**1NC:** Virilio K, Immigration Reform DA, ATS CP, T-Vehicles, T- Subs ($556 bil), Dedev, Terrorism Good, Case D
**2NC:** T (both), CP, Dedev, Terrorism Good
**1NR:** DA
**2NR:** CP, DA, Case Turns
==Round 3 vs. Cabot CL (NIB- BUILD Act)== 
**Advantages: Economy, Competitiveness**

**1NC:** Competitiveness K, Immigration Reform DA, Privatization CP, T-Sub ($556 bil), Case
**2NC:** K, T, Case
**1NR:** DA, CP
**2NR:** DA, CP, Case

==Quarters vs. Fayetteville DW (Inland Waterways)== 
**Advantages: Economy (Trade, Econ), Agriculture (Ethics), Soybeans (Amazon Deforestation, China War)**

**1NC:** Capitalism K, T-Sub ($556 Bil), T-Maintenance, Immigration Reform DA, Wheat Rust CP, States CP, China War Good, Trade Bad, Case
**2NC:** CP, CP, Case
**1NR:** DA
**2NR:** Wheat Rust CP, DA, Case turns

=Searcy (Note: It's Alex debatin' w/ Sam Bennett)= 
==Round 1 vs. Fayetteville GX (Port Security)== 
**Advantages: Terrorism, Economy, Drug Trafficking (Amazon), Human Trafficking (Prostitution/Rape)**

**1NC:** Give Back The Land K, Case
**2NC**: K
**1NR:** Case
**2NR:** Case n' K

=Berkeley= 
==Round 1 vs. BAUDL AH (Whiteness)== 
**Advantage: Racism**

**1NC:** Extra T, Capitalism K, Tam Lun Asian-American Counteradvocacy, Banquets CP, Immigration Reform DA, Schools CP, Exclusion Turn
**2NC:** Extra T, Counteradvocacy, Banquets CP, Schools CP, Exclusion Turn
**1NR:** K
**2NR:** Banquets CP

==Round 3 vs. UC Lab KZ (Space Ports)== 
**Advantages: ISS and Leadership**

**1NC:** T-Substantial = 556 bil, T- TI≠Space, China Internal Politics DA, ITAR CP, Capitalism K, Case
**2NC:** T-Sub, T-Space, DA, CP, Case
**1NR:** K
**2NR:** K

==Round 5 vs. Rowland Hall AK (Hillman)== 
**Advantage: Hillman Psyche/Efficiency**

**1NC:** Framework, Capitalism K, State PIC, Case
**2NC:** Framework, Case
**1NR:** K
**2NR:** Framework

=Heritage Hall= 
==Round 1 vs. Edmond North KF (Freight Rail)== 
**Advantages: Econ, Ethanol, Warming**

**1NC**: T-Substantial = 556 Bil, Capitalism K, Immigration Reform DA, Privates CP, Case
**2NC**: T, K
**1NR**: CP, DA, Case
**2NR**: K
==Round 3 vs. Charles Page HR (Beneath the Neon)== 

**1NC:** Role of Ballot PIC, Capitalism K, Framework, Personal Politics Bad, Lying Disclosure Bad
**2NC:** Framework + Lying Disclosure Bad, PIC
**1NR:** K
**2NR:** Framework + Disclosure Bad, Role of Ballot Bad

==Round 6 vs. Edmond North CC (Inland Waterways)== 
**Advantages: Economy, Hegemony**

**1NC:** T- Substantial = 556 Bil, T- TI≠ Maintenance, Capitalism K, Immigration Reform DA, States CP, Trade Bad, Hegemony Bad
**2NC:** T, DA, Heg Bad, Trade Bad
**1NR:** K
**2NR:** DA + Case turns
==Round 7 vs. Moore HN (Dredging)== 
**Advantages: Trade and then more trade and then some more trade and econ**

**1NC:** T- Substantial = 556 Bil, T- TI≠Maintenance, Capitalism K, Immigration Reform DA, States CP, Trade Bad
**2NC:** K
**1NR:** T, DA, Trade Bad
**2NR**: K
=Bentonville= 
==Round 1 vs. Greenwood CL (MagLev)== 
**Advantages: China (CCP), Brain Drain (Heg), Warming**

**1NC:** Privates CP (Innovation and Productivity NB's), China CCS CP, China Steel DA, Case
**Block:** Everything (forgot specific division, but y'know, whatever)
**2NR:** (lulz... this was in-state debate...so...) everything. yes, everything.
==Round 3 vs. Rogers KX (Space Elevators)== 
**"Advantages": Warming, Air Pollution, Debris-ish thing?**

**1NC:** Weaponization DA, Geoengineering CP, T- TI≠Space, Elections DA (Obama Good), Case
**Block:** Everything (forgot specific division, but y'know, whatever)
**2NR:** Weaponization DA, Elections DA, CP, Case