[[toc]]
=Gay Rights Aff= 
==1AC State TOC Semis== 
===Act I=== 

**Act I:**

**I do.**
**But the mothers say we can’t,**
**‘cause you’re a girl and I’m a girl**
**so the most we can hope for is an uncivil union in Vermont**
**but I want church bells – I want rosary beads;**
**I want Jesus on his knees.**
**I want to walk down the aisle while all the patriarchy smiles –**
**well, I guess that’s not true.**
**But I do want to spend my life with you.**
**And I want to know that fifty years from now when you’re in a hospital room**
**and getting ready to die, when visiting hours are for family members only,**
**I want to know they’ll let me in to say goodbye.**

**[…]**

**‘Cause fifty years I’ve watched you grow with me –**
**fifty years of you never letting go of me,**
**through nightmares and dreams and**
**everything in between from the day**
**I said “Buy me a ring.”**

**[…]**

**You said, “Fear is only a verb if you let it be.**
**Don’t you dare let go of my hand.” That was my favorite line.**
**That and the time we saw two boys kissing on the streets of Kansas,**
**and we both broke down crying,**
**because it was Kansas and what are the chances of seeing anything but corn in Kansas?**
**We were born again that day.**
**I cut your cord and you cut mine,**
**and the chords of time played like a concerto of hope**
**so we could feel the rope unwind,**
**feel the noose of hate loosening,**
**loosing from the years of “People like you aren’t welcome here.**
**People like you can’t work here.**
**People like you cannot adopt”**

**[…]**

**When visiting hours are for family members only,**
**I want to know they’ll let me in.**
**I want to know they’ll let me hold you while I sing,**
**“ba be de bop de ba ba, baby I’m so in love with you.**
**I’m so in love with you. Ba be de bop de ba bop be be da bop ba – goodbye.”1**




<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrea Gibson, spoken word artist and activist in the LGBTQ community, “I do,”]</span>

**Goodbye, Goodbye, Goodbye.**
**Goodbye to the ones you love, you can’t visit them in the hospitals,**
**Goodbye to the ones you love, you can’t marry them,**
**Goodbye to the ones you love, you can’t have the same rights as everyone else,**
**Goodbye to your personal liberty, your freedom of choice,**
**Goodbye to your happiness because of some false societal construct made by homophobic policymakers,**
**Goodbye to the separation of Church and State,**
**Goodbye to your sanity, the lifeblood that keeps you warm at night because some congressman thinks your love isn’t real,**
**Goodbye to everything that made America great,**
**Goodbye to equality,**
**Goodbye, Goodbye, Goodbye,**

**Hello.**

**We’d like to use this debate today to challenge the institutional homophobia that has pervaded our culture, our government, and our lives.**

**Sexual orientation is decided by genes, prenatal hormones and brain structure, not always by choice.2 To deny homosexuals the same rights that others have is equivalent to denying African-Americans the rights that whites had throughout almost all of American history. Even if it is a choice, that choice should still be guaranteed by the Constitutional ideals of freedom and equality, and the Declaration of Independence’s call for the “pursuit of happiness.”**

**When The Daily Show sent a reporter to the Republican National Convention to ask what the most important aspect of America is, the answer was “freedom” and “personal liberty,” so where is the freedom?3 In eighty-five countries homosexuality is a crime and in seven it’s subject to the death penalty, but I’d like to think we’re better than that. 4, 5 I’d like to think we’re a bit more progressive.**

**The problem is, people are never going to be able to prevent gay marriage. It’s been happening since marriage has been happening. 6 Marriage is just a daily, private commitment to another person. But preventing them from having healthcare/employment/loan benefits or from being able to see their loved one in the hospital is just discrimination plain and simple. We’ve taken important first steps by repealing Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, a military policy that excluded homosexuals from serving our country, but more has to be done. Otherwise, what will these soldiers say? So now they’ll say “I’m gay and I’m going to die for your freedoms, the very same ones that are denied to me back home, where I’m fighting a different kind of war for equality”?**



<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[16 June 2008, Alexis Madrigal, Wired Science, “Scientists Link Brain Symmetry, Sexual Orientation,” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2008/06/scientists-link/]</span>

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas Szasz, 1999, the Columbia Reader on Lesbians and Gay Men in Media, Society, and Politics, Edited by Larry Gross and James D. Woods, Columbia University Press,“The Product Conversion-From Heresy to Illness”, pg.157]</span>

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">4 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[29 August 2012, The Daily Show, video, “RNC 2012 - The Road to Jeb Bush 2016 - Abortion Law & The Republican Platform,” http://www.thedailyshow.com/watch/wed-august-29-2012/rnc-2012---the-road-to-jeb-bush-2016---the-republican-platform]</span>

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Riki Wilchins, 2008, “An Invisible War,” http://connection.ebscohost.com/c/articles/31336096/invisible-war]</span>

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">6 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[3 June, 2010, Rex Wockner “ILGA: 76 countries ban gay sex, 7 have death penalty,” http://www.pridesource.com/article.html?article=41711]</span>
===Act II=== 
**Act II:**

**On my honor I will do my best**
**To do my duty to God and my country**
**and to obey the Scout Law;**
**To help other people at all times;**
**To keep myself physically strong,**
**mentally awake, and morally straight.**
**—Scout Oath of the Boy Scouts of America**

**Ryan [Andresen] joined the Boy Scouts when he was just six years old, and since then, he's dreamed of earning his Eagle award -- the highest rank in the Boy Scouts.**

**Ryan is now a senior in high school, and just completed the final requirements to earn his Eagle Award. He's an honor student with great SAT scores, who's hoping to attend the University of San Francisco. But because he recently came out to his friends and family as gay, leaders from our local Boy Scout troop say they won't approve his Eagle award.**

**A Boy Scout gets his Eagle by earning many badges, completing all lower Scout rank requirements, and carrying out an approved final project. So Ryan decided to build a "Tolerance Wall" for his school, to show bully victims -- like Ryan -- that they are not alone. Ryan worked countless hours with elementary students to amass a wall of 288 unique tiles, all illustrating acts of kindness.**

**But when local Boy Scout leaders found out that Ryan was gay, the Scoutmaster refused to sign the official paperwork designating Ryan as an Eagle Scout, despite the fact that Ryan completed all of the requirements.**

**Many troops and councils around the country are standing up, choosing to reject the Boy Scouts' discriminatory policy.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I sincerely hope that Ryan's council will become one of them. And with your help, they just might.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It hurts me so much to watch Ryan suffer for being who he is, because to me, he's perfect. </span>**Ryan has worked for nearly 12 years to become an Eagle Scout, and nothing would make him more proud than earning that well-deserved distinction.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I hope that if enough people come together, we can convince my son's troop leaders to help him feel proud of who he is and all he's accomplished.</span>

**"Citizenship in the Community," a merit badge earned, means standing up for what is right**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and I am proud of Ryan for doing just that. Will you </span>**stand with him too, and join this campaign**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? 7</span>

**This is Karen Andresen’s petition for her son’s exclusion from the Boy Scouts of America. With over 450,000 signees online including Ellen DeGeneres, her call for change is as relevant as ever to today’s debate.**

**On February 7, 2013, The Boy Scouts of America avoided rescinding their century-long policy banning homosexuals from their organization.**

**But why? Why not just include everyone who wants to learn the leadership skills and outdoorsman-ship that Boy Scouts teaches? Is it because of the line in the Scout Oath that says, “I will do my best […] to keep myself […] morally straight”? Does the Scout Oath’s appeal to a duty to God HAVE to mean the exclusion of homosexuals? Or is it even for practical matters like homosexual boy scouts sharing tents?**

**J. Bryan Lowder, an Eagle Scout, best answers all of these arguments in his 2013 article, “What Does it Take to Be ‘Morally Straight’?” 8**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And really, that’s the question—a question of reverence, of what is </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I can recall. Perhaps those policies would be better used for tinder. </span>

**The question is not whether homosexuality is good or bad. The question is one of equality, equal access to a program that teaches teenagers to embody the life skills outlined in the Scout Law:**

**A scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent.**
**Surely, a scout can be all of those regardless of his sexual orientation.**

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">7 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Karen Andresen, Petition, (Ellen DeGeneres has signed this petition) “Boy Scouts: Don't let your anti-gay policy deny my son his Eagle award,” http://www.change.org/petitions/boy-scouts-don-t-let-your-anti-gay-policy-deny-my-son-his-eagle-award, AZhang]</span>

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">8 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[5 February 2013, J. Bryan Lowder, Slate editorial assistant for culture, “What Does It Take To Be ‘Morally Straight?’” http://www.slate.com/articles/life/culturebox/2013/02/boy_scouts_gay_policy_sexuality_is_irrelevant_to_being_morally_straight.html, AZhang]</span>

===Act III=== 
**Act III:**

**The resolution this year calls for an increase in transportation infrastructure investment. What the resolution also calls for is a further subjugation of oppressed people who don’t fall within the heteronormative framework set by the resolution. Instead of promoting equality, the resolution silences the voices of those who lack the power to overcome the hegemonic discourses of patriarchy and homophobia in legislative bodies. Professor Marian Duggar argues that the transportation system is an exclusionary one that only condones homophobia, putting gays in a constant state of fear as she writes:**

**“Gay people weren’t going to get on a heterosexual bus service like Ulsterbus to get beaten up and nothing be done about it. Their security is paramount and they’re years of experience of clamming up, not speaking, keeping themselves safe, so they’re not going to put themselves through that.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, 32, gay male)”</span> **9**

**This homophobia destroys value to life and treats queers as inhuman**
David A.J. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richards</span>, prof. of Law at NYU, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span> (Women, Gays and the Constitution, pg. 348-349)
A way of making this point is to observe thathomophobic prejudice, like racism
AND
<span class="underline">moral persons, </span>for enduring personal and ethical meaning and value in living.

**We’re here before you today to challenge current debate practices that marginalize those who don’t fit within the societal definition of heterosexual. Our performance is not one that merely critiques the resolution, but it is also a calculated blip in the system of heteronormativity. These 8 minutes of the 1AC are 8 minutes of action against oppression.**

**The role of the ballot is to vote for the team that best challenges the institutional oppression that occurs within the debate space because of homophobia. A vote for the affirmative pushes us one step closer to those ideals upon which the country was founded— equality, liberty, freedom. Draw the line in the sand here. A vote for the negative is morally equivalent to putting another blockade in the path to equal rights. Yes, we know we can’t change how everyone in the world thinks, but by using this debate round as a stasis point for community discussion, we can infuse a new mode of thinking into the Arkansas debate community that will ripple through every future debate.**

<span class="SmallText"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">9 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marian Duggan, PhD, MA, and BA. Sheffield Hallam University, Law, Criminology and Community Justice, Faculty Member, “Queering Conflict: Examining Lesbian and Gay Experiences of Homophobia In Northern Ireland,” p. 61, 2012, AZhang]</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2AC AT: Framework</span>**== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resolved is to reduce through mental analysis </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Random House Unabridged Dictionary 2006**</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved)</span>
Resolve<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: 1.To come to a definite or earnest decision about; determine</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5.</span>to reduce by mental analysis<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (often fol. by into).</span>

**The context of the resolution is determined before the colon**
**Peck 96** (U of Ottawa; http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/colon.html)

The colon focuses <span class="underline">the reader’s attention </span>on what to follow<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and as a result, </span><span class="underline">you should use it </span>to introduce an idea <span class="underline">that somehow completes the introductory idea.</span>

**We advocate a queer analytic framework which interrogates normalizaed approaches to sexuality undermining the heteronormativity of the status**
**Roseneil 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sasha 'Queer Frameworks and Queer Tendencies: Towards an Understanding of Postmodern Transformations of Sexuality' Sociological Research Online, vol. 5, no. 3, <http://www.socresonline.org.uk/5/3/roseneil.html> )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Initially queer theory developed within the humanities largely without reference to the thirty years of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__ambiguous,__** **__identifications are fluctuating,__** strategically performed, yet sometimes also ascribed.

**Enforcing conformity through procedural framework rules leads to genocide—listening to others arguments is anti-authoritarian—excluding arguments is authoritarian**
**Roberts-Miller 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Patricia Roberts-Miller 2 is Associate Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Texas Fighting Without Hatred: Hannah Arendt's Agonistic Rhetoric [[http://www.jaconlinejournal.com/archives/vol22.3/miller-fighting.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yet, </span>__there are__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> important </span>__positive political consequences of agonism__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Arendt's own promotion of </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">is, </span>__engage in rhetoric__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-then </span>__they are engaging in antitotalitarian action.__

**Only through reform of debate can we become true liberal citizens and debate about issues on a neutral basis. This is an internal link turn to their Switch Side Good arguments**
**Hicks 07** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Darrin Hicks is Associate Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver. (Darrin Hicks, (2007): “The New Citizen”, Quarterly Journal of Speech, 93:3, 358-360, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00335630701463499) RaPa</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ron Greene and I recently published a genealogy of switch-side debating. 3 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__that through the calculated reshaping of speech we all could become virtuous citizens.__

==2AC AT: Capitalism K== 
**Marxism refuses to recognize the importance of heterosexual institutes on capitalisms progress and identity production.**
**<span class="cite">Hennesy 00 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Rosemary, “Profit and Pleasure”, Ph.D. Syracuse University, Professor of English Rice University. Pg. 4-5)</span>
One of the most remarkable features of the history of sexual identities is the lack
AND
**__too immediate- material concerns in the lives of both Engel and Marx.__**


**PERM: We must combine the global and the local in order to effectively solve for capitalism**
**<span class="cite">Hennesy 00 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Rosemary, “Profit and Pleasure”, Ph.D. Syracuse University, Professor of English Rice University. Pg. 4-5)</span>
By the same token, the organization of group identity, including sexual identities,
AND
**__immediately experience and the social structures they are shaped by and help support.__**
==**2AC AT: Open Forums CP**== 
**Our queering of this debate space is a historical moment of individual resistance to heteronormativity that forms the foundation of social change**
**Steyaert 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen (January 2010, Chris, //Gender, Work and Organization.,// “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1, [NZR])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Foucault, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">resistance is focused on ‘the forms within which individuals are </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
only relations possible are extremely few, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">extremely </span>simplified, and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">extremely </span>poor<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our narrative doesn’t seek to just change, but also to open up the debate space to allow the voices of queer youth who are denied self-representation.**
**Driver 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susan, Assistant professor of Social Sciences at New York Univ. and the author of Queer girls and popular culture, “Queer Youth Cultures”, State university of New York Press in Albany, Pg.70)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">When given the freedom, queer youth have the ability to create their </span>__****__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">own cultural </span>__**
**__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">existing models of sexuality, gender, desire, politicism, and conformity.</span>

=2014 Aff= 
==1AC Searcy Round 2== 
**By the way, we won this round.**

**This should prove a point about the Arkansas debate circuit— how judges and teams both need to be more open to topicality debates.**

**Topicality in the state of Arkansas has become some moot off-case position that neither judges nor teams view as important to the educational value of the activity. We as a community have to be more open to arguments (like topicality) and not just view it as some time suck (even if it is more often than not, though the reason it is, is because judges are unwilling to vote on it). Topicality debates in Arkansas currently consist of blippy extensions throughout both constructives and rebuttals. Negative teams will spend a minute on topicality in the block and 30 seconds on topicality in the 2nr and expect that to do something. That's not a strategy. Topicality debates should be much more warranted than just "extend ground, we provide the best ground. extend limits, we provide the best limits. We Meet."** **<span style="line-height: 1.5;">If we can read an aff on next year's resolution, and win that round, there's something wrong. </span>****<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Let's change for the better. </span>**

===1AC Cuba=== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Contention One is Cuba**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**US-Cuban economic engagement is hampered by the embargo, undermining freedom and relations**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**NY Times 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Damien Cave, November 19th, 2012, Easing of Restraints in Cuba Renews Debate on U.S. Embargo, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/20/world/americas/changes-in-cuba-create-support-for-easing-embargo.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0, SCB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HAVANA — “If I could just get a lift,” said Francisco López, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 1950s. “There is a lot of work to be done.”</span>

**Cuban embargo prevents effective US-Latin American relations:**
**Shifter 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, [[http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf]], Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another chronic irritant is US drug policy, which most Latin Americans now believe makes </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__has set Washington against the consensus view of the hemisphere’s other 34 governments__**.

**US-Latin American relations solve a host of existential scenarios:**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shifter 12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, [[http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf]], Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)</span>
**__There are compelling reasons for the United States and Latin America to pursue more robust__**
**__AND__**
**__proceedingat an accelerating pace, setting a firmer basis for__** **__hemispheric partnership.__**

**Returning Guantanamo Bay to Cuba is critical to spur that economic engagement and removing the embargo**
**Sabin 2/4**<span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">[4 February 2013, Murray Sabin, Economic Policy Journal, “Murray Sabrin: Return Guantanamo Bay to Cuba,” http://www.economicpolicyjournal.com/2013/02/murray-sabrin-return-guantanamo-bay-to.html, AZhang] </span>

The stumbling blocks to ending the American embargo are obvious<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">:</span> <span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">the political clout of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">northeast regions of America? To ask the question is to answer it.</span>

**AND, Guantanamo detainment is the primary impediment to effective Middle East democracy promotion**
**Zogby ’05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James J. Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute, 6-22-2005, The Baltimore Sune]</span>

What damages the U.S. image<span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">and endangers us is not comments by </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they are dismissed</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">by their countrymen when they point to the American experience.</span>

**AND, Middle East democracy promotion is essential to prevent war and terrorism**
**Sharansky ’01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Natan Sharansky, deputy prime minister of Israel, 10/10/2001, The Wall Street Journal]</span>

The democratic world must export freedom throughout the Middle East not only for the sake
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is why war is always the last option for democratic states.</span>

**AND, Middle East Conflict risks Nuclear Escalation**
**Steinbach ‘02**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John Steinbach, Center for Research on Globalization, 2002 (“Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace” – CRG) http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction in such an unstable </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span>deepening Middle East conflict could trigger a world conflagration<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">." (44</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>


===1AC Mexico=== 

**Contention Two is Mexico**

**Increasing comprehensive immigration reform as an economic engagement generates a massive economic multiplier effect**
**Ojeda ’12**<span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">[Raúl Hinojosa-Ojeda, Founding Director of the North American Integration and Development Center at the University of California, “The Economic Benefits of Comprehensive Immigration Reform,” 189-191, http://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/files/serials/files/cato-journal/2012/1/cj32n1-12.pdf, AZhang] </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The results of our modeling suggest that comprehensive immigration </span>reform would increase <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">middle-class growth, and a stronger, more equitable national economy.</span>

**Economic decline increases conflict**
**Royal, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2010, Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic decline may increase</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the likelihood of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">external conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>

**AND, Immigration reform solves illegal immigration preventing terrorism**
**Price, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Price—North Carolina Representative—Chairman of Homeland Security Appropriations sub-committee, “Price Delivers Major Speech On Homeland Security,” 23 June 2008, http://price.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2723&Itemid=100260, MH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Today I will suggest five principal homeland security priorities on which I would advise </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">over efforts to combat smuggling, prevent terrorism, and deport criminal aliens.</span>

**AND, US reaction to terrorist attacks leads to global nuclear war**
**Corsi, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jerome Corsi—PhD in political science from Harvard, excerpt from “Atomic Iran,” “The United States retaliates: ‘End of the world’ scenarios,” WND Books, 20 April 2005, http://www.wnd.com/2005/04/29862/, MH) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The combination of </span>horror and outrage<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that will surge upon the nation </span>will demand that
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fan the diplomatic fire beginning to burn under the Russians and the Chinese. </span>
**AND, Illegal Immigrants introduce dangerous diseases to the United States**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dave </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gibson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, freelance writer and political consultant, May 12, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="articletitle" style="font-size: 8pt;">Illegal Immigrants Are Spreading Dangerous Diseases Across This Nation, http://www.americandaily.com/article/7751</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is often said that the flood of illegal immigrants true--it is just </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">left unchecked, illegal immigration will destroy this nation one way or another.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND, That causes extinction</span>**
**Bio-Medicine 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">one of the Internet’s leading online Organizations devoted to biology and medicine, [[http://www.bio-medicine.org/medicine-news/The-Dreaded-Disease-Tuberculosis-Raises-Its-Ugly-Head-20674-1/]]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Dreaded Disease Tuberculosis Raises Its Ugly Head</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When Mr. Andrew Speaker and his </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">more difficult and expensive to treat, the highly lethal XDR-TB.</span>


===1AC Venezuela=== 

**Contention Three is Venezuela**

**US engagement in Venezuela’s oil economy is key to Venezuelan economy**
**Alvarez and Hanson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cesar J. Alvarez – Council on Foreign Relations and Stephanie Hanson – covers economic and political development in Africa and Latin America for the Council on Foreign Relations, “Venezuela's Oil-Based Economy,” 2/9/09, http://www.cfr.org/economics/venezuelas-oil-based-economy/p12089)//PC// </span>

//__Though Venezuela has repeatedly threatened to cut off its oil exports to the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">raise world oil prices and slow the economic growth of the United States. </span>//

//**AND, Drop in oil profit causes political instability**//
//**Painter 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, James Painter, senior correspondent for BBC News, “Is Venezuela’s Oil Boom Set to Burst?”, October 28th, 2008, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7694757.stm MC</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The dizzying collapse in oil prices has started a heated debate in Venezuela about the </span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">term", he says, "sooner or later the bomb will explode."</span>//

//**AND, Destabilization in Venezuela will spill over into a laundry list of impacts**//
//**Manwaring 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Max Manwaring, Chair of the General Douglas MacArthur Foundation and is a Professor of Military Strategy at the U.S. Army War College, “Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, And Asymmetric Warfare,” October 2005, from the Strategic Studies Institute, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf MC</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>Chávez<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>understands that the process leading to state failure is the most dangerous//
//AND//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spill over into regional syndromes of poverty, destabilization, and conflict.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">62</span>//

//**AND, Also causes Venezuelan adventurism into Colombia triggering instability and US intervention**//
//**Litle 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Justice Litle, editor of Outstanding Investments, “South America and the Petrocrat Problem,” March 8th, 2008, From the Taipan Publishing Team, http://www.taipanpublishinggroup.com/TPG/archives/Daily_030408a.html. MC</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> obvious </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reasons, tied to political ideology and the war on drugs, the </span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(Like touching off a small-scale hot war, for example.)</span>//

//**AND, Even small conflicts in Latin America draw in great powers**//
//**Rochlin 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, James Francis Rochlin, professor of Political Science at Okanagan University, </span>//Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America//, p. 130-131, published in 1994//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While there were economic motivations for Canadian policy in Central America, security considerations were </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as Contadora, as will be discussed in the next chapter.</span>//

//**The plan is also key to solve poverty**//
//**Orhangazi 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Özgür, Assistant Professor of Economics at the Roosevelt University Chicago, Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, “Contours of Alternative Policy Making in Venezuela,” November 2011, Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts Amherst, http://www.peri.umass.edu/fileadmin/pdf/working_papers/working_papers_251-300/WP275.pdf)</span>//PC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the dominant role of the oil production in the economy, it is not </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This guarantees supply for countries with small economies” (PDVSA 2010). 9 </span>

===1AC Plan=== 

**We are Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its economic engagement toward Cuba, Mexico or Venezuela.**
==**2AC Util Debate**== 
**All lives are infinitely valuable. The only ethical option is to maximize the number saved.**
David <span style="font-size: 16pt;">Cummisky</span>, Professor of Philosophy @ Bates College. <span style="font-size: 16pt;">1996</span>. “__Kantian Consequentialism.__” Pg. 131.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, even if one grants that saving two persons with dignity cannot outweigh and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__conclusion that the more persons with dignity who are saved, the better.__

**Extinction comes first. Role of the ballot is to maximize the number of lives saved— Ethics are a constructed falsity.**
**Bok, 1988**
[Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
even__killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.__


==**2AC Race/Bias K (Narrative)**== 

**If there is anyone in the audience in the entertainment industry watching me perform, I want you to keep in mind that if you are casting any films and need a Korean grocery store owner, a computer expert or the random thug of a yakuza gang, i’m your man.**

**If you’re making Jackie Chan knock-off films and need a stunt double, that stunt double is me. if you need a Chinese jay-z, a Japanese eminem, or a Vietnamese backstreet boy, please consider me, because I am all those things and more. i come from the house that step n’ fetchit built and i will broken English my way to sidekick status if that’s what’s expected of me make an Asian different strokes. I’ll walk around on my knees yelling, ahso, what you talk about wirris?!**

**i cannot stress how ready i am to sell out, wear jiggy clothes, and yell from the top of my lungs any hook i am told to sing. if you want the caricature of a caricature, then i am that caricature. if you need a voice-over artist, just tell me where you want the, hi-ya's! to go and i will be there, because i am all that more, i am a pop culture whore, i an a co-sponsored world tour, an i am an appropriated culture at my core. i've been noticed, acclaimed, and funny and now all i want is a beach front house to paint in and a range rover to listen to my music in, cuz struggling fucking sucks hard after the ninth package of ramen noodle soup. give me a chance, and i'll change the world.**

**Beau Sia’s poem Give Me a Chance shows the false racial identity of Asian Americans that has been constructed by external modalities which reinforce oppressive stereotypes. Our performance empowers other voices to explore an identity politics that deconstructs these examples of white supremacy.**
**Keith ’09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Anthony Keith received his Master of Education degree in college student affairs from The Pennsylvania State University, where he currently serves as assistant director of the Paul Robeson Cultural Center. “Read, Listen, And Watch: Media Resources For Conversing About Race,” About Campus Journal, Jan-Feb 2009, online, Wiley, DOI: 10.1002/abc.274, AZhang]</span>

I often hear students discuss individuals who do not exemplify what they perceive to be
AND
va r ious cons t ruc t ions should be welcomed and encouraged.

**The exclusion of Latinos, Asian Americans and Native Americans in the Black/White paradigm plays into white domination**
**Bowman 1- prof of law @MSU, JD from Duke**
(Kristi, Duke Law Journal “The New Face of School Desegregation,” http://www.law.duke.edu/shell/cite.pl?50+Duke+L.+J.+1751)
__White privilege is reinforced when racial and ethnic groups are conceptualized not as White,__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as distinct groups that continue to suffer different harms is easily within reach. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Transportation infrastructure can be used to help alleviate racism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Morse 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Racial discrimination in transportation extended to pedestrian traffic</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">as well. Four days after the </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">America agreed that the storm pointed out persistent problems of racial inequality. 214 </span>__



=MTS Aff= 
==NFL Districts Round 3== 
===1AC Nuclear Fleet=== 

**Contention 1 is the Nuclear Fleet**

**First, the sequester will crush our shipbuilding industrial base—investment NOW is key to prevent an irreversible collapse**
**Greenert 2/13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan Greenert, Admiral and Chief of Naval Operations, “Statement Of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Admiral Jonathan Greenert Chief Of Naval Operations Before The</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> House Armed Services Committee</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Impacts Of A Continuing Resolution And Sequestration On Defense,” p. 40, www.hsdl.org/?view&did=731200, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Chairman McKeon, Ranking Member Smith, and distinguished members of the Committee, ¶ </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sometimes impossible, at a </span>later<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> date </span>when<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our national </span>security demands it<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**AND, that guts our readiness— budget cuts in shipbuilding cause delays and lead to order cancellations**
**Shalal-Esa 4/16** (Andrea Shalal-Esa, journalist for Reuters, “US Navy, Marine Corps Acquisition Plans Hit by Sequester”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/04/16/us-usa-budget-navy-idUSBRE93F12020130416]], TBhattacharyya)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Reuters) - </span>__Top officials from the U.S. Navy and Marine__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">of our very best programs", meeting cost, schedule and weapons requirements.</span>


**AND, Steady federal funding solves this by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating a strong labor force, and leveraging private investment**
**AMO ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies devel</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Title XI program in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.</span>

**AND, investment in the shipbuilding industry is key to expanding the nuclear fleet**
**Spencer and Spring ’07** <span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 November 2007, Jack Spencer, Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, and Baker Spring, F.M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy for the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, “The Advantages of Expanding the Nuclear Navy,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2007/11/the-advantages-of-expanding-the-nuclear-navy, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America's Nuclear Shipbuilding Industrial Base</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some have erroneously argued that America's industrial base is </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">industrial base consists of more than 4,000 companies in 47 states.</span>

**AND, nuclear-powered ships are critical to naval power— current ships are terrible**
**Spencer and Spring ’07** <span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 November 2007, Jack Spencer, Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, and Baker Spring, F.M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy for the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, “The Advantages of Expanding the Nuclear Navy,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2007/11/the-advantages-of-expanding-the-nuclear-navy, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress is debating whether future naval ships should include nuclear propulsion. The House version </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pollutants into the atmosphere, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a nuclear ship is largely emissions-free.</span>

**AND, naval power key to prevent great power wars**
**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war**.**</span>__No other disruption is as potentially disastrous to global stability__
__AND__
__and sustain forces, sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**AND, No offense— Reliance on the Navy is inevitable— it’s just a matter of effectiveness**
**Whiteneck ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis & Solutions, “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” March,http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)</span>

In the future, the demand for the Navy will continue to be part of
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
diplomacy <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to support administration priorities and to support security cooperation activities by COCOMs.</span>

**We’ll isolate 2 scenarios**

**Scenario 1 is North Korea**

**Increasing naval capability would deter North Korean aggression and nuclear use—the mere PERCEPTION of shipbuilding investment is key— star this card, it’s pretty sick.**
**Talent 4/8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [8 April 2013, Jim Talent, served on the Senate Armed Services Committee and is currently a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation and co-chair of the American Freedom and Enterprise Foundation, “Strength Will Deter Provocations by North Korea,” http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2013/4/strength-will-deter-provocations-by-north-korea, AZhang]</span>

There’s a reason<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> rogue regimes such as </span>North Korea try so hard to acquire nuclear
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">may yet have cause to regret that they decided to rattle their sabers.</span>


**North Korea nuclear use causes extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">*Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>**

**AND, North Korea has the capability to launch apocalyptic super-EMP’s and nuclear weapons now**
**Pry 12/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[19 December 2012, Peter Vincent Pry, executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security, and served on the Congressional EMP Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. “PRY: North Korea EMP attack could destroy U.S. — now,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/dec/19/north-korea-emp-attack-could-destroy-us-now/?page=all, AZhang]</span>

No<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rth </span>Ko<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rea </span>now has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an intercontinental ballistic missile (</span>ICBM<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">) </span>capable of delivering a 
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dictators, will they want to take America with them down into darkness?</span>

**Scenario 2 is oil dependence**

**Nuclear powered navy drastically cuts US oil dependence**
**Fabey ’07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[11 January 2007, Michael Fabey, Aerospace Daily & Defense Report, “Lawmaker calls for more nuclear-powered Navy ships,” lexisnexis, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Congress and the </span>Navyneed to make<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the service's carrier escort </span>ships nuclear powered<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
generators,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the impact of such </span>attackswould be minimized<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">he said.</span>

**Specifically, ships wouldn’t need to refuel for decades**
**Tiron ’08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[11 June 2008, Roxana Tiron, The Hill, “Rep. Taylor pushes nuclear power for more Navy ships,” </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/4556-rep-taylor-pushes-nuclear-power-for-more-navy-ships, AZhang] </span>

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">He believes that skyrocketing oil prices help make his case. If oil stays at </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">only cruiser fleet would have on the U.S. industrial base.</span>

**Oil dependence creates multiple scenarios for war – increases the __incentive__ to go to war while __short-circuiting barriers__ to conflict**
**GLASER 2011**** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University, “ Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security,” August 2011, http://depts.washington.edu/polsadvc/Blog%20Links/Glaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx, Sawyer)</span>
__Oil dependence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> could reduce a state’s security if its access to oil is vulnerable to </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">import oil will be uninterrupted and will pursue policies to ensure secure access. </span>



===1AC Nuclear Industry=== 
**Contention 2 is the Nuclear Industry**

**The nuclear industry is declining now—this kills our ability to exert leadership.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wallace and Williams, 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Senior Adviser, U.S. Nuclear Energy Project, Sarah, CSIS, “Nuclear Energy in America: Preventing It’s Early Demise,” http://csis.org/files/publication/120417_gf_wallace_williams.pdf]</span>

America’s<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> nuclear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> energy </span>industry is in //decline//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Low natural gas prices, financing hurdles</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.S. nuclear industryand </span>//take action//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to prevent its early demise.</span>

**A nuclear-powered navy would solve this by catalyzing massive private investment in the nuclear energy industry**
**Spencer ’07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[15 November 2007, Jack Spencer, Senior Research Fellow, Nuclear Energy Policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “Competitive Nuclear Energy Investment: Avoiding Past Policy Mistakes,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2007/11/competitive-nuclear-energy-investment-avoiding-past-policy-mistakes, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The peaceful use of the atom, it was claimed, was the answer to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">capital to opportunities that were perceived as less threatened by increasing regulatory volatility.</span>


**2 Scenarios**

**First is Proliferation**

**It’s coming now and risks un-deterrable nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Heisbourg 12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">—chairman of the council of the Geneva Centre for Security Policy and of the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies (Francois, 3/4/12, “NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION – LOOKING BACK, THINKING AHEAD: HOW BAD WOULD THE FURTHER SPREAD OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS BE?,” http://www.npolicy.org/article_file/Nuclear_Proliferation_-_Looking_Back_Thinking_Ahead_How_Bad_Would_the_Further_Spread_of_Nuclear_Weapons_Be.pdf, RBatra)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given their disproportionate power, nuclear weapons cannot</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> serve to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">achieve limited policy goals</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">two countries is substantial, above and beyond the intentions of government officials.</span>


**AND, an expanding nuclear industry solves it— it’s key to the perception of technological leadership which solves.**
**Bengelsdorf and McGoldrick,<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [currently a Principal with the consulting firm of Bengelsdorf, McGoldrick, and Associates, held numerous senior positions in the U.S. government, including the Energy Department and its predecessor agencies, the State Department, and the U.S. Mission to the IAEA. Among his appointments, he served as the director of both key State and Energy Department offices that are concerned with international nuclear and nonproliferation affairs. Throughout his career, Mr. Bengelsdorf contributed significantly to the development and implementation of U.S. international fuel cycle and nonproliferation policies, having participated in several White House and National Security Council studies. He was involved in the negotiation of numerous bilateral and multilateral nuclear and nonproliferation agreements, including the development of full-scope IAEA safeguards (INFCIRC/153) to implement the Nuclear, THE U.S. DOMESTIC CIVIL NUCLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE AND U.S. NONPROLIFERATION POLICY A White Paper Presented by the American Council on Global Nuclear Competitiveness May 2007, [[http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf]]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The health of the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">civil nuclear infrastructure can have an important</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">initiatives designed to discourage the spread of sensitive nuclear facilities to other countries.</span>

**AND, cascading prolif ensures extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kroenig, 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [May 26th, Matthew Kroenig: Assistant Professor of Government, Georgetown University and Stanton Nuclear Security Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations, The History of Proliferation Optimism: Does It Have A Future? Prepared for the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, [[http://www.npolicy.org/article.php?aid=1182&tid=30]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 2pt;"> Proliferation Optimism: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 2pt;">Proliferation optimism was revived</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> in the academy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 2pt;">in</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> Kenneth </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 2pt;">Waltz’s</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> 1979 </span>
<span style="font-size: 2pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that a future Middle East crisis could result in a devastating nuclear exchange.</span>


**Scenario 2 is Water Shortages**

**Nuclear power expansion reduces global water stress and results in effective desalination**
<span class="Heading4Char">Hargraves, 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[July, Robert, Robert Hargraves has written articles and made presentations about the liquid fluoride thorium reactor and energy cheaper than from coal – the only realistic way to dissuade nations from burning fossil fuels. His presentation “Aim High” about the technology and social benefits of the liquid fluoride thorium reactor has been presented to audiences at Dartmouth ILEAD, Thayer School of Engineering, Brown University, Columbia Earth Institute, Williams College, Royal Institution, the Thorium Energy Alliance, the International Thorium Energy Association, Google, the American Nuclear Society, and the Presidents Blue Ribbon Commission of America’s Nuclear Future. With coauthor Ralph Moir he has written articles for the American Physical Society Forum on Physics and Society: Liquid Fuel Nuclear Reactors (Jan 2011) and American Scientist: Liquid Fluoride Thorium Reactors (July 2010). Robert Hargraves is a study leader for energy policy at Dartmouth ILEAD. He was chief information officer at Boston Scientific Corporation and previously a senior consultant with Arthur D. Little. He founded a computer software firm, DTSS Incorporated while at Dartmouth College where he was assistant professor of mathematics and associate director of the computation center. He graduated from Brown University (PhD Physics 1967) and Dartmouth College (AB Mathematics and Physics 1961). THORIUM: energy cheaper than coal, ISBN: 1478161299, purchased online at Amazon.com] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World water resources are stressed. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">UNESCO reports that 8% of worldwide electric power </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">designed to </span>use excess <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">power </span>to desalinate <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">water during off-peak periods.</span>

**Water shortages cause war**
<span class="Heading4Char">Lee, 12</span> [Matthew Lee, Huffington Post, “Water War Could Erupt In Coming Decades, Says U.S. Intel Report”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/22/water-war-intel-report-hillary-clinton_n_1372496.html]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The report is based on a classified National Intelligence Estimate on water security</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">political instability, </span>//geopolitical conflict// and irreparable enviro<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nmental </span>damage<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," the report warned.</span>

**AND, those conflicts escalate globally**
**Rasmussen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – CEO, Monday Morning; Founder, Green Growth Leaders, founder of the Copenhagen Climate Council (Erik, 04/12, “Prepare for the Next Conflict: Water Wars,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/erik-rasmussen/water-wars_b_844101.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">For years </span>__experts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> have set out </span>__warn__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ings </span>__of how__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>__earth will be affected by__
__AND__
**__escalate__** __and become a__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> great humanitarian crisis and also a </span>**__global__** **__safety problem__**__.__



===1AC Plan=== 
**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its nuclear-powered naval transportation infrastructure investment.**
===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But </span>accelerating cost, an ageing
AND
skilled personnel turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.

**Put away your process counterplans— only the plan’s steady funding prevents cost overruns**
**Margaronis ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even today,Congressional reports continue to point out that</span>billions <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of dollars are </span>wasted
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">loan guarantees is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.</span>

**AND, the technology is safe and ready**
**Martin, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [May 8th, Richard, A contributing editor for Wired since 2002, he has written about energy, for Time, Fortune, The Atlantic, and the Asian Wall Street Journal, editorial director for Pike Research, the leading cleantech research and analysis firm, former Technology Producer for ABCNews.com, Technology Editor for The Industry Standard (2000-2001), and Editor-at- Large for Information Week (2005-2008), recipient of the “Excellence in Feature Writing" Award from the Society for Professional Journalists and the White Award for Investigative Reporting, Educated at Yale and the University of Hong Kong, , “SuperFuel: Thorium, the Green Energy Source for the Future”, ISBN 978—0»230-116474]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">SO, IF YOU WERE GOING TO DESIGN and build a new nuclear reactor from </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to run to produce electricity on a cost-per-kilowatt basis.</span>

**The federal government is key for three reasons:**

**A. Expansion: Market-driven choices fail.**
**Zimmer, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]] </span>

For the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>to compete in the global market it is imperative that it
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best. </span>

**B. Leadership: Only federal government leverages private investment**
**Cook, 11** — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)
***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>**

**C. States fail— Federal government key to effective fund distribution and coordination**
**GAO 2005**** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office (“Freight Transportation: Short Sea Shipping Option Shows Importance of Systematic Approach to Public Investment Decisions” July 2005, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d05768.pdf|www.**gao**.gov/new.items/d**05768**.pdf]])//aberg</span>
__Improving the efficiency of the nation’s surface transportation system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a particularly complex challenge because </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">makes it difficult for freight projects to be integrated into the transportation system.</span>


===**AT: Ice Age Turn**=== 
**No uniqueness – no impending ice age now.**
**Thompson ’08**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Andrea, Live Science, Jun 12, “Could Waning Sunspots Bring On New Ice Age?” http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,366061,00.html]</span>

**__No impending ice age__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though there is debate about how and whether the Maunder minimum</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__would remain warm. "It doesn't overpower them at all,"__** **__Hathaway said__**

**The next ice age won’t cause extinction.**
**Snook ’07**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jim, Geologist, Ice Age: Cause and Human Consequences, p. 172]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The next glacial breakup phase will be very had on living things because of a</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the end of the last ice age, but it is a possibility. </span>

==NFL Districts Round 1== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">1AC Naval Readiness</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Naval Readiness</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Naval readiness is paramount in containing conflict and ensuring cooperation, but the sequester will crush our readiness and shipbuilding industrial base.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Greenert 2/13** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">[Jonathan Greenert, Admiral and Chief of Naval Operations, “Statement Of¶ Admiral Jonathan Greenert Chief Of Naval Operations Before The¶ House Armed Services Committee¶ On¶ The Impacts Of A Continuing Resolution And Sequestration On Defense,” p. 40, www.hsdl.org/?view&did=731200, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">Chairman McKeon, Ranking Member Smith, and distinguished members of the Committee, ¶ </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">sometimes impossible, at a later date when our national security demands it.</span>


**AND, that guts our readiness— budget cuts in shipbuilding cause delays and order cancellations**
**Shalal-Esa 4/16** (Andrea Shalal-Esa, journalist for Reuters, “US Navy, Marine Corps Acquisition Plans Hit by Sequester”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/04/16/us-usa-budget-navy-idUSBRE93F12020130416]], TBhattacharyya)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Reuters) - </span>__Top officials from the U.S. Navy and Marine__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">of our very best programs", meeting cost, schedule and weapons requirements.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Steady federal funding solves this by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating a strong labor force, and leveraging private investment**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **AMO ’12**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies devel</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">the Title XI program in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.</span>

**__Specifically, we solve in two ways__ — __first__, the plan increases demand for ships, prevents uncertainty, and maintains surge capacity**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Alberto, et al., 5</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf]]</span>, Deech)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">our study found that the tremendous advantage the US enjoys in naval </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Second, the plan diversifies the sector and lowers costs**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Alberto, et al., 5**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf]]</span>, Deech)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">This dichotomy—</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">being the current world leader in naval construction at the same time </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">fiscally </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">viable to invest in modernization and efficiency</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> initiatives necessary for modern construction.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">We’ll isolate 2 scenarios</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 1 is China</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **WSJ ’10**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday, five months overdue</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">wherewithal to defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **US-China war would quickly escalate past the magnitude of World War II**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **White ‘12** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[17 August 2012, Hugh White, professor of strategic studies at ANU and a visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute, “The China Choice: A Bold Vision for U.S.-China Relations,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thediplomat.com/2012/08/17/the-china-choice-a-bold-vision-for-u-s-china-relations/?all=true]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">But those who argue that we should not even seek an accommodation must assume that </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">they do not justify at least exploring the possibility of accommodation with China. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 2 is the Arctic</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Naval readiness key to prevent arctic resource conflict – alliances don’t check.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Goldenberg 2011</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> – US environment correspondent (Suzanne, “Prepare for Arctic struggle as climate changes, US navy warned: Climate change could upset the delicate security balance in the Arctic, warns National Academy of Sciences report” Thursday 10 March 2011, </span>[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/10/arctic-struggle-climate-change]]<span style="background-color: white;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">America urgently needs to build up its military readiness in the Arctic</span><span style="background-color: white;"> where melting summer </span>__
__<span style="background-color: white;">AND</span>__
__<span style="background-color: white;">in US military and strategic circles about the security implications of climate change.</span>__

**Escalates to nuclear conflict with Russia.**

**Wallace & Staples 2010** *Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia **President of the Rideau Institute (Michael and Steven, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is,</span>__the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition__
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.” 62 </span>


===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">1AC Sea Basing</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Sea Basing</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **A strong shipbuilding industry is the vital prerequisite to Sea Basing**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Thompson et al. ’05** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[Col David D. Thompson, USAF, CDR Elizabeth B. Myhre, USN, Ms. Audrea M. Nelson, DA, 2005, “Implications of SeaBasing for the Shipbuilding Industry,” “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449541]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The third challenge facing shipyards in their quest to meet Sea Base construction needs is</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">required if the concept is truly expected to become a reality </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">by 2020.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Sea basing offers a critical platform for Aegis ballistic missile defense systems**</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Perry ’09</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Perry, 2009, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. Air Force is also heavily reliant upon a decreasing number </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **well as the homelands of the U.S. and its allies**.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Sea-based BMD is critical to deter rogue use of nuclear weapons and ensure multilateralism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Grant and Grotto ’08** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[Rebecca Grant, Lexington Institute Andrew J. Grotto, Center for American Progress, August 2008, “Sea Based Missile Defense: Expanding the Options,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2008/09/pdf/sea_based_missiles.pdf]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Ballistic missile proliferation among regional powers and rogue states has been a simmering source of </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">-based missile defenses to negate such challenges in the decades to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Our failing missile defense system leaves us vulnerable to attack— the sequester will cripple our ability to defend against North Korea**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Picket 3/13**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [13 March 2013, Kerry Picket, Journalist for Breitbart, graduate of Denison University, formerly edited and wrote for the Washington Times opinion section and its "Water Cooler" blog, “Sequester Threatens To Cripple U.S. Missile Defense, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Peace/2013/03/12/Sequester-Threatens-To-Cripple-U-S-Missile-Defense]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">According to a House Armed Services Committee (HASC) staffer,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> the sequester cuts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">more likely U.S. nuclear defense capabilities will fall in disrepair.</span>


**AND, the brink for an attack is now— Defense officials confirm they’re preparing to launch.**
**Miklaszewski et al 4/10** (Jim Miklaszewski, Courtney Kube and Alastair Jamieson, NBC's chief Pentagon correspondent Jim Miklaszewski reports on the military's latest intelligence on North Korea's possible missile strike plans, “'Very high' chance North Korea will fire missile, U.S. and South Korea say”, Tbhattacharyya)

__U.S. defense officials are "highly confident" that North Korea is__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">being issued to Americans in South Korea or those planning to travel there.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **North Korea nuclear use causes extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>)**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>**

**AND, the plan solves by sending a perception of long-term deterrence— North Korea is only being a jerk because they think we’ve gone soft**
**Rothkopf 4/5**** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[5 April 2013, David Rothkopf, Rothkopf is President and CEO of Garten Rothkopf, an international advisory firm specializing in transformational trends especially those associated with energy choice and climate change, emerging markets and global risk. He is a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace where he chairs the Carnegie Economic Strategy Roundtable. He was formerly chief executive of Intellibridge Corporation, managing director of Kissinger Associates and U.S. Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade Policy. Rothkopf has also taught international affairs and national security studies at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and Georgetown's School of Foreign Service, has lectured widely and is the author of over 150 articles for leading publications worldwide. “Does North Korea think U.S. going soft?” http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/05/opinion/rothkopf-north-korea/index.html?hpt=hp_t1, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is possible that</span>North Korea is threatening America because it thinks that there is
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there, </span>America's enemies are starting to conclude we have "gone soft."


===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">1AC Plan</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **The United States federal government should substantially increase its shipyard transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**</span>


===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">1AC Solvency</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Cropsey ’12**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]]</span>, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">accelerating cost, an ageing</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">skilled personnel turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Put away your process counterplans— only the plan’s steady funding prevents cost overruns**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Margaronis ’08**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Even today,Congressional reports continue to point out that</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">billions of dollars are wasted</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">loan guarantees is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Federal government is key for expansion: Market-driven choices fail**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Zimmer, 11** [</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]</span>] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">For the U</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">to compete in the global market</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> it is imperative that it </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best.</span>


===**1AR NoKo Perception**=== 
**Increasing naval capability would deter North Korean aggression and nuclear use—the mere PERCEPTION of shipbuilding investment is key— star this card, it’s pretty sick.**
**Talent 4/8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [8 April 2013, Jim Talent, served on the Senate Armed Services Committee and is currently a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation and co-chair of the American Freedom and Enterprise Foundation, “Strength Will Deter Provocations by North Korea,” http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2013/4/strength-will-deter-provocations-by-north-korea, AZhang]</span>

There’s a reason<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> rogue regimes such as </span>North Korea try so hard to acquire nuclear
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">may yet have cause to regret that they decided to rattle their sabers.</span>

===AT: Stimulus Fails=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stimulus is best for recovery—principles of aggregate demand</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mankiw and Weinzierl, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> **-** *professor of economics at Harvard AND** professor of business administration at Harvard (N. Gregory and Matthew C., </span>__An Exploration of Optimal Stabilization Policy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Brookings Institution, Spring 2011, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/Programs/ES/BPEA/2011_spring_bpea_papers/2011a_bpea_mankiw.pdf]])//HK</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">What is the optimal response of monetary and fiscal policy to an economy-wide </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even if the marginal value of the public goods being purchased is low.</span>
==State TOC Round 1== 
===1AC Naval Readiness=== 
**Contention 1 is Naval Readiness**

**Naval readiness is __paramount__ in containing conflict and ensuring cooperation, but the sequester will crush our readiness and shipbuilding industrial base.**
**Greenert 2/13** <span style="font-size: 4pt;">[Jonathan Greenert, Admiral and Chief of Naval Operations, “Statement Of¶ Admiral Jonathan Greenert Chief Of Naval Operations Before The¶ House Armed Services Committee¶ On¶ The Impacts Of A Continuing Resolution And Sequestration On Defense,” p. 40, www.hsdl.org/?view&did=731200, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Chairman McKeon, Ranking Member Smith, and distinguished members of the Committee, ¶ </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sometimes impossible, at a later date when our national security demands it.</span>

**Steady federal funding solves this by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating a strong labor force, and leveraging private investment**
**AMO ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies devel</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Title XI program in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.</span>

**__Specifically, we solve in two ways__ — __first__, the plan ramps up demand for ships critical to naval superiority**
**Alberto, et al., 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our </span>study<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> found that the </span>tremendous advantage<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the US enjoys in naval </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.</span>

**__Second__, the plan diversifies the sector and lowers costs**
**Alberto, et al., 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This dichotomy—</span>being<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the current world </span>leader in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> naval </span>construction<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> at the same time </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fiscally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">viable to invest in modernization and efficiency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> initiatives necessary for modern construction.</span>

**Navy isn’t resilient—** **competitors will only surpass us as the quantity and capability of our ships degrade**
**Holmes 6/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[26 June 2012, James R. Holmes, a defense analyst for The Diplomat and an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College where he specializes in US, Chinese and Indian maritime strategy and US diplomatic and military history, co-author of Red Star over the Pacific, an Atlantic Monthly Best Foreign Affairs Book for 2010 and a former US Navy surface warfare officer “U.S. Navy’s Quantity Problem,” http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/06/26/u-s-navys-quantity-problem/, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. naval planners may be tempted to believe technology trumps numbers. </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">succumb to the sort of thinking that beguiled Tokyo in those fateful years.</span>


**Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations**
**WSJ ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday, five months overdue</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
wherewithal to defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.

**US-China war would quickly escalate past the magnitude of World War II**
**White ‘12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[17 August 2012, Hugh White, professor of strategic studies at ANU and a visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute, “The China Choice: A Bold Vision for U.S.-China Relations,” http://thediplomat.com/2012/08/17/the-china-choice-a-bold-vision-for-u-s-china-relations/?all=true, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But those who argue that we should not even seek an accommodation must assume that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">they do not justify at least exploring the possibility of accommodation with China. </span>

**Your generic impact defense doesn’t apply:**

**A. Now is key— the Chinese navy’s rapid expansion means US credibility ONLY decreases**
**Collins and Erickson 11/1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1 November 2012, Gabe Collins, Research Fellow at the US Naval War College's China Maritime Studies Institute Andrew Erickson, Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a core founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI). He is an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies (2008-). Erickson also serves as an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal’s China Real Time Report (</span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝'; font-size: 8pt;">中国</span><span style="font-family: '儷黑 Pro'; font-size: 8pt;">实时报</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). “U.S. Navy Take Notice: China is Becoming a World-Class Military Shipbuilder,” http://thediplomat.com/2012/11/01/u-s-navy-take-notice-china-is-becoming-a-world-class-military-shipbuilder/, AZhang]</span>

China’s<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> military </span>shipbuilders are showing that they can meet<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Beijing’s current </span>call for warships and
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that Beijing is likely to unveil over the next 2-3 years**.**</span>

**B. And a high risk of the impact- Perception of constrained U.S. Naval forces coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate**
**Kraska ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Kraska, “China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas, 5/6/10, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifth,</span>China is riding a wave of national overconfidence<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> at the same time many </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">remote that the US Navy alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power.</span>

===1AC Sea Basing=== 
**Contention 2 is Sea Basing**

**A strong shipbuilding industry is the vital prerequisite to Sea Basing**
**Thompson et al. ’05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Col David D. Thompson, USAF, CDR Elizabeth B. Myhre, USN, Ms. Audrea M. Nelson, DA, 2005, “Implications of SeaBasing for the Shipbuilding Industry,” “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449541, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The third </span>challenge<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> facing shipyards in their quest </span>to meet Sea Base<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> construction needs </span>is
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">required </span>if the concept is truly expected to become a reality <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by 2020.</span>

**Sea basing offers a critical platform for Aegis ballistic missile defense systems**
<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perry ’09</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Perry, 2009, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. Air Force is also heavily reliant upon a decreasing number </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**well as the homelands of the U.S. and its allies**.</span>


**Sea-based BMD is critical to deter rogue use of nuclear weapons and ensure multilateralism**
**Grant and Grotto ’08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rebecca Grant, Lexington Institute Andrew J. Grotto, Center for American Progress, August 2008, “Sea Based Missile Defense: Expanding the Options,” http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2008/09/pdf/sea_based_missiles.pdf, AZhang]</span>

Ballistic missile proliferation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> among regional powers and rogue states has been a simmering source of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">-based missile defenses to negate such challenges in the decades to come.</span>

**Our failing missile defense system leaves us vulnerable to attack— the sequester will cripple our ability to defend against North Korea**
**Picket 3/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [13 March 2013, Kerry Picket, Journalist for Breitbart, graduate of Denison University, formerly edited and wrote for the Washington Times opinion section and its "Water Cooler" blog, “Sequester Threatens To Cripple U.S. Missile Defense, http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Peace/2013/03/12/Sequester-Threatens-To-Cripple-U-S-Missile-Defense, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a House Armed Services Committee (HASC) staffer,</span> the sequester cuts
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more likely U.S. nuclear defense capabilities will fall in disrepair.</span>

**High risk of a North Korean attack NOW— North Korea has declared a state of war, positioned rockets, and rejected any hopes of multilateral talks**
**Kwon et. al. 3/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[30 March 2013, KJ Kwon, Jethro Mullen and Catherine E. Shoichet, CNN, “U.S. defense officials: North Korean threats are ‘bellicose rhetoric’,” http://www.cnn.com/2013/03/30/world/asia/north-korea-us-threats/index.html?hpt=hp_t1, AZhang]</span>

North Korea declared<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> it had entered a </span>"state of war" with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> neighboring </span>South
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Pyongyang has declared that the subject is no longer up for discussion.</span>

**North Korea nuclear use causes extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">*Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>



===1AC Plan=== 
**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its shipyard transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**

===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But </span>accelerating cost, an ageing
AND
skilled personnel turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.

**Put away your process counterplans— only the plan’s steady funding prevents cost overruns**
**Margaronis ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even today,Congressional reports continue to point out that</span>billions <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of dollars are </span>wasted
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">loan guarantees is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.</span>

**Federal government is key for three reasons**

**A. Expansion: Market-driven choices fail**
**Zimmer, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]] </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**to compete in the global market** it is imperative that it </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best. </span>

**B. Leadership: Only federal investment leverages private investment**
**Cook, 11** — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)
***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>**

C. States fail— Federal government key to effective fund distribution and coordination
GAO 2005** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office (“Freight Transportation: Short Sea Shipping Option Shows Importance of Systematic Approach to Public Investment Decisions” July 2005, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d05768.pdf|www.**gao**.gov/new.items/d**05768**.pdf]])//aberg</span>
__Improving the efficiency of the nation’s surface transportation system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a particularly complex challenge because </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">makes it difficult for freight projects to be integrated into the transportation system.</span>

===2AC AT: No NoKo Nukes=== 
**North Korea has the capability to launch apocalyptic super-EMP’s and nuclear weapons at the US now— Multiple military intelligence sources confirm this.**
**Pry 12/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[19 December 2012, Peter Vincent Pry, executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security, and served on the Congressional EMP Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. “PRY: North Korea EMP attack could destroy U.S. — now,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/dec/19/north-korea-emp-attack-could-destroy-us-now/?page=all, AZhang]</span>

No<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rth </span>Ko<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rea </span>now has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an intercontinental ballistic missile (</span>ICBM<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">) </span>capable of delivering a
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dictators, will they want to take America with them down into darkness?</span>
===2AC AT: No NoKo Threat=== 
**The brink for an attack is now— North Korea is readying its rockets for a launch— this impact has the shortest timeframe in the round**
**Mullen et. al. at 3:22 PM Today** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[5 April 2013, 3:22PM Jethro Mullen. Barbara Starr and Laura Smith-Spark, CNN, “Embassies face decisions as tensions rise in North Korea,” http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/05/world/asia/koreas-tensions/index.html?hpt=hp_t1, AZhang] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foreign diplomatic missions in North Korea face an ominous decision after Pyongyang said Friday it </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.¶ Key dates in U.S. military moves near North Korea¶ </span>
==Berkeley Round 4== 
**Added this card to the bottom of solvency**

**States fail— Federal government key to effective fund distribution and coordination**
**GAO 2005** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office (“Freight Transportation: Short Sea Shipping Option Shows Importance of Systematic Approach to Public Investment Decisions” July 2005, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d05768.pdf|www.**gao**.gov/new.items/d**05768**.pdf]])//aberg</span>
__Improving the efficiency of the nation’s surface transportation system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a particularly complex challenge because </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">makes it difficult for freight projects to be integrated into the transportation system.</span>


==Berkeley Round 2== 
**Lay judge round so we didn't read several cards that were in the previous 1AC**

**Swapped out the Strait Times 2K card for this one (because lol strait times 2k...)**

**US-China war would quickly escalate past the magnitude of World War II**
**White ‘12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[17 August 2012, Hugh White, professor of strategic studies at ANU and a visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute, “The China Choice: A Bold Vision for U.S.-China Relations,” http://thediplomat.com/2012/08/17/the-china-choice-a-bold-vision-for-u-s-china-relations/?all=true, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But those who argue that we should not even seek an accommodation must assume that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">they do not justify at least exploring the possibility of accommodation with China. </span>
==Heritage Hall Round 4== 
**Errythang was the same as it was in Round 2, except the plan text was:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its Title XI loan guarantee transportation infrastructure investment.**
==Heritage Hall Round 2== 
===1AC Sea Basing=== 
**Contention 1 is Sea Basing**

**No new funding has been provided for shipyards**
**Bondareff and Waldron 7/24** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[24 July 2012, Joan M. Bondareff and Jonathan K. Waldron, Blank Rome LLP Counselors at Law, Association of Corporate Counsel, “Congressional failure to enact maritime legislation and the fiscal cliff,” http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=fc200bbe-9bcc-402f-8c38-7f349271ebd4, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We have already seen a decline in budgets for the maritime agencies. For example</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, even the Coast Guard would not be exempt from sequestration.</span>

**Steady federal funding is necessary to revitalize the shipbuilding industrial base, generate a strong labor force, and leverage private investment**
**AMO ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies devel</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Title XI program in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.</span>

**That’s the vital prerequisite to Sea Basing**
**Thompson et al. ’05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Col David D. Thompson, USAF, CDR Elizabeth B. Myhre, USN, Ms. Audrea M. Nelson, DA, 2005, “Implications of SeaBasing for the Shipbuilding Industry,” “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449541, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The third challenge facing shipyards in their quest to meet Sea Base construction needs is </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">required if the concept is truly expected to become a reality</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by 2020.</span>

**Sea basing solves hegemony –**

**A. Rapid forward deployment, flexibility, and global deterrence**
Michael <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Perry, 2009</span>, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Seabasing supports numerous aspects of America’s National Security</span>, D<span style="font-size: 8pt;">efense and Military Strategies. This </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of the National Security, Defense and Military Strategies of the United States.</span>

**B. Generates a multiplier effect for land power**
Michael <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Perry, 2009</span>, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This study reaches six conclusions regarding the importance and future of Seabasing. First,</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">achieve political purpose in a manner which most other joint capabilities cannot match.”</span>

**No offense— Reliance on the Navy is inevitable— it’s just a matter of effectiveness**
**Whiteneck ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis & Solutions, “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” March,http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the future, the demand for the Navy will continue to be part of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">diplomacy</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to support administration priorities and to support security cooperation activities by COCOMs.</span>


**And, Naval superiority is the foundation of U.S. geopolitical dominance- It provides the “bandwidth” needed to confront all other threats**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">world's leading private intelligence firm, clients range from Fortune 500 companies to international government agencies (August 5th, “U.S. Naval Dominance and the Importance of the Oceans”, [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/u_s_naval_dominance_and_importance_oceans]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The geographic position of the United States, situated comfortably between the Atlantic and Pacific </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, insulated as it is by the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific. </span>

**Hegemony is sustainable – but we have to maintain it**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University, January 17, 2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Brookings Institute, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/01/17-us-power-kagan]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The challenges today </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">are great, and the rise of China is the most obvious </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">both to Americans and to the nature of the world they live in.</span>

**Loss of hegemony causes global instability**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kagan 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow at Brookings (Robert, 3/14/12 “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN,http://us.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?hpt=hp_c1)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We take a lot for granted about the way the world looks today -- the </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.</span>

**Statistical evidence proves**
**Owen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mack and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">his</span>colleagues<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the Human Security Report Project are to be congratulated</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">in part </span>by the emergence of the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>as the <span style="font-size: 7pt;">global </span>hegemon<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>


===1AC Naval Readiness=== 
**Contention 2 is Naval Readiness**

**Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— Investment NOW is key**
**Eaglen ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">None of America’s armed forces can meet all of the demands placed on them by </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of U.S. weakness will be greater in the long run.</span>

**Two internal links — first, a strong shipbuilding industry is critical to produce the ships that underlie our navy and global leadership — the plan ramps up demand which is key**
**Alberto, et al., 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our </span>study<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> found that the </span>tremendous advantage<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the US enjoys in naval </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.</span>

**Second, the plan diversifies the sector lowering costs and staving off naval collapse**
**Alberto, et al., 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This dichotomy—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">being the current world leader in naval construction at the same time </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fiscally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">viable to invest in modernization and efficiency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> initiatives necessary for modern construction.</span>

**The deterrence impact is proven—** **competitors will only surpass us as the quantity and capability of our ships degrade**
**Holmes 6/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[26 June 2012, James R. Holmes, a defense analyst for The Diplomat and an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College where he specializes in US, Chinese and Indian maritime strategy and US diplomatic and military history, co-author of Red Star over the Pacific, an Atlantic Monthly Best Foreign Affairs Book for 2010 and a former US Navy surface warfare officer “U.S. Navy’s Quantity Problem,” http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/06/26/u-s-navys-quantity-problem/, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. naval planners may be tempted to believe technology trumps numbers. </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">succumb to the sort of thinking that beguiled Tokyo in those fateful years.</span>

**We’ll Isolate 3 Scenarios**

**First is China**

**Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations**
**WSJ ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday, five months overdue</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">wherewithal to defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.</span>

**The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts**
**Straits Times 2k** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity scenario postulates </span>a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.

**Your generic impact defense doesn’t apply:**

**A. Now is key— the Chinese navy’s rapid expansion means US credibility ONLY decreases**
**Collins and Erickson 11/1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1 November 2012, Gabe Collins, Research Fellow at the US Naval War College's China Maritime Studies Institute Andrew Erickson, Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a core founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI). He is an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies (2008-). Erickson also serves as an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal’s China Real Time Report (</span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif; font-size: 8pt;">中国</span><span style="font-family: '儷黑 Pro'; font-size: 8pt;">实时报</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). “U.S. Navy Take Notice: China is Becoming a World-Class Military Shipbuilder,” http://thediplomat.com/2012/11/01/u-s-navy-take-notice-china-is-becoming-a-world-class-military-shipbuilder/, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China’s military shipbuilders are showing that they can meet Beijing’s current call for warships and </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that Beijing is likely to unveil over the next 2-3 years.</span>

**B. And a high risk of the impact- Perception of constrained U.S. Naval forces coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate**
**Kraska ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Kraska, “China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas, 5/6/10, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifth,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China is riding a wave of national overconfidence at the same time many </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">remote that the US Navy alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power.</span>

**Scenario 2 is Iran**

**Perception of strong navy prevents naval risk aversion in the Middle East, Iranian adventurism, and Strait of Hormuz conflict**
**Singh 2012** – Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” <span style="color: #333333;">January 3, 2012, </span><span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]]</span>)

Even if Iran ignored these considerations and proceeded with an effort to close the Strait
AND
belligerence nor passivity, but a robust posture that makes Tehran think twice.

**That escalates to nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir 2007</span> **–** Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK, Feb. 6 (UPI) -- That Iran stands today able </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program. </span>

**High risk of the impact— Iran has nuclear weapons and negotiation policies fail— your impact defense underestimates the status quo**
**Khalili 1/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7 January 2013, Reza Kahlili is a pseudonym for a former CIA operative in Iran’s Revolutionary Guards and author of the award-winning book “A Time to Betray” (Simon & Schuster, 2010). He serves on the Task Force on National and Homeland Security and the advisory board of the Foundation for Democracy in Iran (FDI), “IRAN'S NUCLEAR BOMB PROGRAM COMPLETE,” http://www.wnd.com/2013/01/irans-nuclear-bomb-program-complete/, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Iran successfully has built a nuclear bomb with the help of Russia and North Korea </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a neutron detonator for a nuclear weapon and warhead design for ballistic missiles. </span>

**Scenario 3 is the Arctic**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Naval readiness key to prevent arctic resource conflict – alliances don’t check.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Goldenberg 2011</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> – US environment correspondent (Suzanne, “Prepare for Arctic struggle as climate changes, US navy warned: Climate change could upset the delicate security balance in the Arctic, warns National Academy of Sciences report” Thursday 10 March 2011, </span><span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/10/arctic-struggle-climate-change]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">America urgently needs to build up its military readiness in the Arctic where melting summer </span>
<span style="background-color: white;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">in US military and strategic circles about the security implications of climate change. </span>

**Escalates to nuclear conflict with Russia.**

**Wallace & Staples 2010** *Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia **President of the Rideau Institute (Michael and Steven, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is,</span> the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition**
**AND**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.” 62</span>**


===1AC Plan=== 
**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its Marine Transportation System infrastructure investment in the United States.**

===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">accelerating cost, an ageing </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">skilled personnel turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>

**Put away your process counterplans— only the plan’s steady funding prevents cost overruns**
**Margaronis ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even today,Congressional reports continue to point out that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">billions of dollars are wasted </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">loan guarantees is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.</span>

**A federal program is the vital internal link to expansion of the shipbuilding industry– current funding is insufficient**
**Zimmer, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]] </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to compete in the global market it is imperative that it </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best. </span>

**Only federal investment creates conditions favorable for private investment – the plan reverse the only barrier to short sea transportation**
**Cook, 11** — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)
***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Bentonville Round 1</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">1AC Marine Highways</span>=== 

**Contention 1 is Marine Highways**

**Status quo Marine Transportation System infrastructure is failing in capacity and investment.**
**Cox et al, 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Joseph J. is President and CEO of Chamber of Shipping of America; Matsuda, Hon. David T., Administrator, Maritime Administration; Mohr, John M., Executive Director, Port of Everett, Washington; Roberts, Michael G., Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Crowley Maritime Corporation, on behalf of American Maritime Partnership; Tellez, Augustin, Executive Vice President, Seafarers International Union (Joseph J., “Creating Jobs and Increasing U.S Exports By Enhancing The Marine Transportation System,” Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House of Representatives, June 14, 2011. </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/html/CHRG-112hhrg66919.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)AS</span>

However, because of much of the system's infrastructure is aging
AND
expand the system to meet its future challenges. Nevertheless, we must find a way forward.

**There are three internal links to the economy:**

**First is jobs and second is exports**

**Capacity limitations prevent economic growth by rendering MTS ineffective**
**Lobiondo, et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

In order to remain competitive in a global economy, improving
AND
ensures the U.S. market remains pre-eminent in global trade. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.



**Third is congestion**

**a. Congestion is the biggest stranglehold on the economy— costs act as economic multipliers across all sectors**
**Cambridge Systematics ‘2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Benefits of Reducing Congestion: NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment,” January 2002 http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf]</span>
Delivery of goods and services. Congestion increases the cost of delivering products
AND
market available to a business leads to an average 6.5 percent increase in business productivity.29

**b. Expansion of Marine Highways will relieve this congestion, preventing economic collapse**
**MARAD 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)</span>NJain


Traffic congestion imposes serious costs on society in the form of
AND
facilitate the transition to greater use of this underutilized national asset.

**And, economic collapse triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld**, **08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, 2008, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture.
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

**Independently, free trade creates structural disincentives for war and deters terrorism**
**Griswold, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BJM</span>

Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.”
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.

**Investment in MTS sustains US agricultural exports**
**Khachatryan and Casavant 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Research Associate and Director/Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity (Hayk and Ken, THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, EL)</span>

The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage
AND
waterways in the US. The CSRS links the Pacific Northwest (PNW) economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.

**The collapse of U.S. agricultural exports turns every impact and makes extinction inevitable**
**Lugar, 4** – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html

In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East
AND
play a decisive humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.




===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">1AC Shipbuilding</span>=== 

**Contention 2 is Shipbuilding**

**Steady federal funding is a prerequisite to naval power by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating jobs, and maintaining defense capabilities**
**AMO ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf, AZhang]</span>

As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development,
AND
in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.

**Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf, AZhang]</span>

Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But accelerating cost,
AND
turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.

**Specifically, it prevents cost overruns**
**Margaronis ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>

Even today, Congressional reports continue to point out that billions of dollars
AND
is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.

**Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— Investment is key**
**Eaglen ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/, AZhang]</span>

None of America’s armed forces can meet all of the demands
AND
that is sustained through the long term.” However, the price of U.S. weakness will be greater in the long run.

**Naval power key to deter major power war**
**Conway et al 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Commandant of the Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral U.S. Navy, Chief of Naval Operations, and Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commandant of the Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, October 2007, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)//AMV</span>

Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous
AND
sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore.

**And, causes escalation of every transnational threat –revitalizing the faltering ship building industry is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NLUS, 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>

Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy,
AND
Taking care of our wounded warriors is fundamental.

**<span style="color: black;">And, the deterrence impact is proven— competitors will only surpass us absent investment</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Holmes ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[24 January 2011, James R. Holmes, a defense analyst for The Diplomat and an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College where he specializes in US, Chinese and Indian maritime strategy and US diplomatic and military history, co-author of Red Star over the Pacific, an Atlantic Monthly Best Foreign Affairs Book for 2010 and a former US Navy surface warfare officer. “Can U.S. Navy Shift to Pacific?” http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/06/26/u-s-navys-quantity-problem/, AZhang]</span>

As naval technology gallops on, can fleets execute the same missions with fewer assets?
AND
A mismatch among policy, strategy, and forces looms.


**We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios**

**First is China**

**Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations**
**WSJ ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html, AZhang]</span>

The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday,
AND
defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.

**And, there’s a high risk of impact - Perception of constrained U.S. Naval forces coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate**
**Kraska ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Kraska, “China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas, 5/6/10, AZhang]</span>

Fifth, China is riding a wave of national overconfidence
AND
alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power.

**The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts**
**Straits Times 2k** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>

The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war
AND
that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.

**Second is Iran**

**Iran’s asymmetric warfare capabilities have surpassed ours— Plan prevents naval risk aversion, Iranian adventurism, and Strait of Hormuz conflict**
**Singh 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” January 3, 2012, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Even if Iran ignored these considerations and proceeded with an
AND
belligerence nor passivity, but a robust posture that makes Tehran think twice.

**That escalates to nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/)</span>

That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every
AND
to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.


===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">1AC Plan</span>=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its Marine Transportation System infrastructure investment in the United States.**

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">1AC Solvency</span>=== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**The federal government is key for multiple reasons**

**A. Best solves the expansion of Marine Highways and Shipbuilding Industry**
**Zimmer, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

For the United States to compete in the global market it is imperative that it
AND
The budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best.

**B. Leverages private investment and reduces congestion**
**Cook, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**</span>

For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed increasing
AND
that is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.

**C. Has Jurisdiction and key to Leadership**
**AAPA, 11** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]</span>**

Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and
AND
America’s economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.

**And, states fail— they require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions**
**Puentes 11** – Director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes; Brookings, Accessed June 19 2012)</span>

The country needs to become more export-oriented for the future health of the economy.
AND
Now, I ask you: How does any of this help get us closer to our national goals?


==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Agenda Politics</span>=== 

====**2AC Cantor Link Turn**==== 

**Title XI has strong bipartisan support— Eric Cantor pushes for it**
**Politicus USA ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[31 October 2011, Politicus USA,“Letters Reveal Eric Cantor Begged For Obama Stimulus Money To Create Jobs,”http://www.politicususa.com/eric-cantor-begged-obama-stimulus.html, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In October 2009, Cantor and several other Congressmen from both parties sent a letter</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">government spending publicly while angling privately for more taxpayer dollars for their districts.</span>

====**PC False**==== 

**Political Capital theory is false for Obama – second term means he’s uniquely weaker and he refuses to fight**
**Thursh ’13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1/1/13, Glenn Thrush “Fiscal cliff: President Obama's legacy trap,” http://www.politico.com/story/2013/01/fiscal-cliff-obamas-legacy-trap-85636_Page4.html]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">President Barack Obama </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">hopes — expects, really — that</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">’13 will be his lucky</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fights he feels he can’t win than he was before beating Mitt Romney.</span>

====**<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Debt Ceiling</span>**==== 
=====**2AC UQ**===== 
**Uniqueness overwhelms the link— House republicans are voting on debt ceilng.**
**Weisman 1/18** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan, January 18th, 2012, Political Analyst for The New York Times, “In Reversal, House G.O.P. Agrees To Lift Debt Limit”, The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/19/us/politics/house-gop-agrees-to-lift-debt-ceiling-for-3-months.html)</span>

__Backing down from their hard-line stance, House Republicans said Friday that they__
__<span style="background-color: lime;">AND</span>__
__Cantor said. “I____<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">t’s time to come together and get to work</span>__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">.” </span>

=====**2AC Gun Control Thumper**===== 
**Gun control thumps the disad— Obama vows to use all his political capital for it even in the face of immigration reform**
**Pace 1/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[17 January 2013, Julie Pace, AP, “Obama Unveils Gun Plan, Concedes Tough Fight Ahead,” http://nation.time.com/2013/01/17/obama-unveils-gun-plan-concedes-tough-fight-ahead/, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(WASHINGTON) —</span> __Conceding “this will be difficult,” President Barack Obama urged__
__AND__
__opposition to his call for Congress to limit ammunition magazines to 10 rounds.__

=====**2AC Cantor K2 Agenda**===== 
**Cantor is key to getting Republicans on board for Debt Ceiling — Comparatively has more influence than Boehner**
**Harris 1/2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2 January 2013, Paul Harris, The Guardian, “Eric Cantor's revolt exposes Republican rift in fight for party's future,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jan/02/eric-cantors-revolt-republican-rift-boehner, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A Republican civil war,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which has simmered under the surface since the party's defeat</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fiscal cliff legislation. That is a sign of weakness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Cohen said.</span>


====**<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Immigration Reform</span>**==== 
=====**2AC UQ (March Madness)**===== 
**Immigration reform won’t pass now—ideological differences and presidential leadership**
**__Voxxi 3/6__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2013, “President Obama and Congress are still far apart on immigration reform”, http://www.voxxi.com/obama-congress-apart-immigration-reform/#ixzz2Mu6t51Pm, SCB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, D.C. — </span>__President Barack Obama and Congress have yet to__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sense of urgency, making her hopeful immigration reform will happen this year.</span>

**Obama not pushing now—has to deal with sequester and continuing resolution—losing PC**
**__Huffington Post 3/2__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2013, Jeff Mason and Matt Spetalnick, “Sequester Cuts Threaten Immigration Reform, Gun Control Plans”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/03/03/spending-cut-obama-immigration-gun-control_n_2799512.html, SCB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, March 2 (Reuters) - Just hours after across-the-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">will continue to push for those initiatives," he told a news conference.</span>

=====**2AC UQ (Berkeley)**===== 
**NU - Push for inclusion of same-sex partner and citizenships derails compromise**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Kelly 2/8 </span>**
(Erin Kelly, Gannett Washington Bureau, “Gay rights becoming controversy in immigration reform,” USA Today, 2/8/13, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2013/02/08/gay-rights-immigration-reform/1903119/]]</span>)

President Obama and advocates want gay couples to receive equal treatment in any immigration reform law
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The future for millions of immigrant families hangs in the balance."</span>


=====**1AR UQ (Berkeley)**===== 
**NU - Disputes over the pathway to citizenship will derail negotiations in the status quo**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lilley 2/8</span>** (Sandra Lilley, “Pathway to citizenship” is the sticking point on immigration talks,” 2/8/13, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://nbclatino.com/2013/02/08/pathway-to-citizenship-is-a-sticking-point-on-immigration-talks/]]</span>)

The wide gap <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">between different legislators </span>on<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">proper </span>way to ‘bring out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">these differences on </span>how to legalize the nation’s undocumented could derail immigration reform<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====**2AC State of Union Link UQ (Berkeley)**===== 
**No Link U - State of the Union push for ports should’ve triggered the link**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transport Topics 2/13</span>**/2013 “Obama Touts Infrastructure, Nat Gas in State of Union Speech” http://www.ttnews.com/articles/basetemplate.aspx?storyid=31240&t=Obama-Touts-Infrastructure-Nat-Gas-in-State-of-Union-Speech

In his State of the Union speech Tuesday night, President Obama pitched a “Fix-It First” program
AND
what our businesses need most, [including] modern ports to move our goods.”

=====**2AC Immigration Reform HHall UQ**===== 
**Immigration Reform won’t pass— STRONG GOP opposition, little political incentives, and differing solutions**
**Cohn 1/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[16 January 2013, Nate Cohn, The New Republic, “A New GOP Begins, and Ends, With Immigration Reform,” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/111912/immigration-reform-house-republicans-test#, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And yet, even this will be difficult to push through the House of Representatives</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, since Hispanics would probably blame the failure of immigration reform on Republicans.</span>

=====**2AC Cantor K2 Immigration Reform (Berkeley)**===== 
**Cantor is key to passing immigration reform**
**Hesson ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[8 November 2012, Ted Hesson, immigration editor for Univision News, master’s degree at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism , “5 Politicians Who Could Make Immigration Reform a Reality,” http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/analysis-politicians-make-immigration-reform-reality/story?id=17676028, AZhang]</span>

Moving straight down the line of House leadership, Cantor will be an important
AND
We're going to address the 11 million people."
=====**2AC Cantor K2 Immigration Reform (HHall)**===== 

**Cantor is key to getting Republicans on board for Immigration Reform — Comparatively has more influence than Boehner**
**Harris 1/2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2 January 2013, Paul Harris, The Guardian, “Eric Cantor's revolt exposes Republican rift in fight for party's future,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jan/02/eric-cantors-revolt-republican-rift-boehner, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A Republican civil war,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which has simmered under the surface since the party's defeat</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fiscal cliff legislation. That is a sign of weakness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Cohen said.</span>

=====**AT: Latin America Relations**===== 
**Can’t solve Latin America relations— Drug policy and Cuba policy prevent it**
**Shifter 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, [[http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf]], Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)</span>
**__Another chronic irritant is US drug policy, which most Latin Americans now believe makes__**
**__AND__**
**__has set Washington against the consensus view of the hemisphere’s other 34 governments__**.

=====**AT: Bioweapons**===== 
**No extinction from bioweapons**
**O’Neill 4** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">8/19/2004 [Brendan, “Weapons of Minimum Destruction” http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CA694.htm]</span>

David C Rapoport, professor of political science at University of California
AND
the cost can be as great 'to the attacker as to the attacked'. The Tigers have not used WMD since.

**And, dispersion is impossible**
**Newhouse, CDI Senior Fellow, 2** **–** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">senior fellow at the Center for Defense Information. Former senior policy advisor on European Affairs to secretary of state. Former director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. (John, World Policy Journal 7/31 V.XIX; N.2 p. 21)</span>

Temperature, sunlight, wind, and moisture can all prevent effective delivery
AND
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">explosive effects would destroy all but 1-2 percent of the agent. 31</span>

**And, even bio-engineered diseases can’t cause extinction**
**Space.com 1**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (10/30, Survival of the Elitist: Bioterrorism May Spur Space Colonies, http://www.space.com/scienceastronomy/generalscience/colonize_now_011030-2.html)</span>

Many scientists argue that there is no need to worry about the mortality of civilization right now.
AND
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">I'd be much more concerned about an asteroid hitting the planet," Croddy said.</span>

=====**AT: Cyber War**===== 
**No cyber war---assumes your warrants**
**Fox 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">7/2, *Stuart Fox: Assistant Editor, Innovation News Daily, “Why Cyberwar Is Unlikely,” http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/830-cyberwar-unlikely-deterrence-cyber-war.html, AJ</span>

Even as more and more countries invest in the idea of cyberwarfare
AND
cyberwar hasn't advanced nearly as quickly."

=====**AT: Now Key/Postdate**===== 
**Recency of evidence doesn’t matter because there’s no vote until June— means polcap can be rebuilt until that time**
**Colorlines 1/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7 January 2013, Colorlines “What to Expect From Immigration Reform, and When to Expect It,” http://newamericamedia.org/2013/01/what-to-expect-from-immigration-reform-and-when-to-expect-it.php, AZhang] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As last week’s fiscal cliff deal left the debt ceiling and so-called sequestration </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and a **vote probably won’t come down until June at the earliest.**</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Elections (Obama Good)</span>=== 
**1. Non Unique—** <span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Romney will take the lead— shift in swing state polls, loss of momentum, and debate proves</span>**</span>
<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Merkel 10/4</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [4 October, 2012, Jesse Merkel, PolicyMic “Rasmussen Polls Show that Presidential Debate Last Night May Put Romney in the Lead,” http://www.policymic.com/articles/15777/rasmussen-polls-show-that-presidential-debate-last-night-may-put-romney-in-the-lead, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">On Wednesday night, the first presidential debate between President Obama and Republican presidential candidate</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which has been </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.policymic.com/articles/15839/who-won-the-presidential-debate-even-liberals-say-romney-is-undisputed-winner-obama-lacks-fire|called for Romney]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>could tip the balance permanently.

**2. Link Turn—**
**a.** **Strong shipbuilding industry is the critical issue in Virginia, which is the key swing state to the elections— STAR THIS CARD**
**Litvan, July 30**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[30 July 2012, Laura Litvan, Writer for Business Week, “Virginia Voters Ask Whom to Blame for Defense Cut Risk,”¶ </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-30/virginia-voters-ask-whom-to-blame-for-defense-cut-risk]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

In a campaign year dominated by the economy and jobs, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Washington says</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**little**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**AND**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">early signs</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that the threatened defense </span>reductions are becoming a potent political issue.

**b. The Public supports infrastructure investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Madland and Bunker 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Nick, Director of the American Worker Project and Research Assistant with the Economic Policy team at American Progress “Ties that Bind: How a Strong Middle Class Supports Strong Public Infrastructure”, Center for American Progress Action Fund, March 22, 2012, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2012/03/middle_class_infrastructure.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And make no mistake,</span> __the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">broader</span> __American__
__AND__
prepared to pay more in taxes to do so<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**c. Unions support the plan**
**MTD, 11** (Metal Trades Department, industry group focused on shipbuilding and metals production, “The Way Forward--US Commercial Ship Building: A Strategic National Asset”, 6/20/2011, http://www.metaltrades.org/?zone=/unionactive/view_article.cfm&HomeID=209195&page=Shipbuilding, Deech)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It must be understood that there must be </span>full commitment and support of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American </span>Labor
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American landscape. Put succinctly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Unions </span>understand what is at stake<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**3. No link and independents not key – the election is highly polarized, not enough people are willing to switch votes**
**Blake July 23**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, covers national politics at the Washington Post, where he writes regularly for the Fix, summa cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota “The incredible shrinking — and increasingly valuable — undecided voter,” July 23, 2012, The Fix from the Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/the-incredible-shrinking--and-increasingly-valuable--undecided-voter/2012/07/23/gJQAcRMH4W_blog.html?wprss=rss_the-fix)PC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama, Mitt Romney and a slew of outside groups will spend hundreds of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama campaigns working on a strategy to capture those voters as we speak.</span>

**4. Foreign policy will determine outcome of elections, not transportation**
**Berger 7/12** (Samuel R. Berger, staff to The Wichita Eagle, “Foreign Policy Curveballs Could Swing the Election,” 7/12/12, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.kansas.com/2012/07/12/2405038/foreign-policy-curveballs-could.html]]</span>) NA
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has become an article of faith in this presidential campaign – backed by relentless</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__important factors in President George W. Bush’s re-election in 2004.__

**5. No link uniqueness—Obama’s already pushing for loan guarantees**
**Power Finance & Risk 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—provides a comprehensive package of actionable news, analysis, propietry data, and informed perspectives on financing in North American Industry (“Industry Current: A U.S. National Infrastructure Bank” Jul 11, 2011 Proquest)</span>NJain

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span>__Obama called__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in February </span>__for creation of a national infrastructure bank__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">are likely to provide on taxpayer investment.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Trade </span>=== 

**Environmental impacts are inevitable – break up and isolation of habitats, Acid Rain, past deforestation, and CFCs already in the o-zone make environmental destruction inevitable**
**Wilson et. al., ‘97** <span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 1.5;">[Marjorie L Reaka-Kudla; Don E Wilson; Edward O Wilson, Biodiversity II : understanding and protecting our biological resources, P. 135-136, 1997, 35235831]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">While formulating our responses to the mass extinction crisis, we need to bear in</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">further large numbers of species in the long term (Myers, 1990b). </span>

**Even small nuclear war devastates the environment – disrupts the global climate**
**Kage, ‘6** <span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 1.5;">[Ben Kage, citizen journalist, “Small-scale nuclear war could devastate global environment for years, researchers say,” NaturalNews, December 18 2006, http://www.naturalnews.com/z021320.html</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The environmental impacts of a nuclear war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">nuclear winter, decades of radiation fallout</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction at Rutgers'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cook College. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Sprawl </span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Non-unique – urban sprawl already high –</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ortiz, '04</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Franscesa – Professor of Law and the Presidential Research Professor for South Texas College of Law, J.D. 1989, Harvard Law School, Council Member of both the Animal Law Section and the Environmental Law Section of the Houston Bar Association, January 2004 (“Smart Growth and Innovative Design: An Analysis of the New Community,” ENVIRONMENTAL LAW REPORTER News and Analysis, Issue 34)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This process of suburban growth, commonly referred to as</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">urban sprawl,has become</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
**__, and__** <span style="font-family: Georgia;">continued growth is expected for at least the next 25 years.</span>

**No link – local governments solve for sprawl –**
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">Elizabeth</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;"> **Selbst, ‘11** </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">(Environmental Management and Public Policy Graduate Student at Duke University)</span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.govloop.com/profiles/blogs/elizabeth-selbst-fund-local-land-banking-to-reverse-urban-sprawl]]</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">If the US government had $100 million remaining, it should fund a land</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">inefficient patterns of sprawl by creating opportunities to revitalize post-industrial cities</span>__**__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__

**Sprawl doesn't hurt agricultural production –**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Akron Beacon Journal 07</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> “Despite urban sprawl, dairy farms still flourish in Wayne County” ,The Associated Press State & Local Wire</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> [http://www.ohio.com]</span>
<span class="hit">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Urban sprawl</span>__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">continues to creep in, but cattle and dairy farming are thriving</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">in</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">working on the same farm is pretty remarkable in today's day and age."</span>
**<span style="color: #333333;">Biodiversity can outlast urban sprawl and even benefit from it –</span>**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Laurel </span>**Ashton**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">April 14, 20</span>**12**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;"> (“Urban Sprawl: Environmental Disaster or Harmony with Nature” Laurel Ashton isstudent at Reinhardt University who is very passionate about the environment and striving to learn more about how to live an eco-friendly life </span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://laurelashton.hubpages.com/hub/Urban-Sprawl-Environmental-Disaster-or-Harmony-with-Nature]]</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">.)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">Ever since humans set foot on this continent, permanent human settlements have been built</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">cause an increase or decrease in biodiversity, damage or aid the environment.</span>

**Biodiversity is bad – it makes ecosystems less stable and more prone to collapse – simple systems are more stable**
**Heath, 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jim Heath - Australian Orchid Council Inc., 1999, Orchids Australia, “WHY SAVE ORCHIDS UNDER THREAT?,” </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, CM)</span>
__Some people say__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">we can’t afford to lose any species, no matter what species</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">add diversity, and </span>__that added diversity makes the biological world more stable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Biodiversity makes ecosystems less stable and more susceptible to collapse – increased biodiversity prevents resiliency and collapses the system**</span>
**Naeem, 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shahid Naeem - Director of Science at Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERC), Professor and Chair of Columbia University Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, 07 March 2002, Nature Magazine, “Biodiversity: Biodiversity equals instability?,” pg. 23, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pfisterer and Schmid [3] studied biomass production in a combinatorial plant-diversity</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by the camp that disagrees with the idea that biodiversity leads to stability.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Biodiversity begets instability rather than stability – scientific consensus**</span>
**Naeem et al 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shahid Naeem - Director of Science at Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERC), Professor and Chair of Columbia University Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, “Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning: synthesis and perspectives,” pg. 80, CM)</span>
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> early </span>view<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that permeated ecology until the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1960s was </span>that diversity<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or complexity</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the 1970s and 1980s because of the mathematical rigour of the theory</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Momentum changing – diseases can be eliminated.**
**Paulson, ’11** – senior writer for Humanosphere and NPR
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tom Paulson, blogger for Humanosphere and senior writer for National Public Radio; “Which four diseases face total eradication? Bill Foege predicts extension of smallpox success;” published 6/28/2011; </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://humanosphere.kplu.org/2011/06/bill-foege-on-disease-eradication-on-the-world/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Jay]</span>
__Smallpox was, until today, the only disease that had ever been eradicated__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">try to eradicate malaria and </span>__I’m very optimistic about it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span>

**Impacts of disease exaggerated – not enough momentum to kill humanity.**
**Lind, ’11 –** policydirector at the New America Foundation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Lind, policy director of the New America Foundation's Economic Growth Program; “So Long, Chicken Little;” published in Foreign Policy, March/April 2011; </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/22/so_long_chicken_little?page=0,8]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Jay]</span>
__There's nothing like a good plague to get journalists and pundits in a__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">frenzy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__fatigue on the part of a public subjected to endless Chicken Little scares.__

**Bodies can’t spread disease – infection will be limited.**
**Range IMD, ‘10**
[Range IMD, “Dead Bodies Do Not Spread Disease;” 1/15/2010; <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://rangelmd.com/2010/01/dead-bodies-do-not-spread-disease/]]</span>; Jay]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You hear it after every natural disaster that causes large loss of life and the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">toxic but only if swallowed in large doses and I’m not going there).</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Continuing CO2 atmospheric input from warming is key to extend our current interglacial period**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Shaffer, 09**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary Shaffer – professor in the Planet and Geophysics department of the Niels Bohr Institute of University of Copenhagen, Director of the Danish Center for Earth System Science, senior scientist at Department of Geophysics, University of Concepcion, Chile, 11 February 2009, “Long time management of fossil fuel resources to limit global warming and avoid ice age onsets,” </span><span style="font-family: AdvTT5843c571,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geophysical Research Letters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vol. 36, L03704, doi:10.1029/2008GL036294, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1] There are about 5000 billion tons of fossil fuel carbon in accessible</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoiding ice age onsets as long as possible for available fossil fuel reserves.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**An ice age is the ONLY scenario for extinction – warming will be beneficial, history proves**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Forbes, 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Viv Forbes – Chairman of The Carbon Sense Coalition, 4 February 2010, “New tax inevitable in the Libs' alternative ETS,” The Advertiser, Australia, pg. 20, lexis, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no evidence that carbon dioxide drives temperature changes on Earth. And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China and India. Many foolish local politicians have thus become foreign agents.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Water Wars </span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There’s no statistical precedent for water wars and adaptation and cooperation solve – star this card</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katz, 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Katz, faculty member at the University of Haifa's Department of Geography and Environmental Studies, where he teaches courses in environmental and resource economics, water management, and economic and political geography. He also serves as an adjunct lecturer at Tel Aviv University's Recanati School of Management and Porter School for Environmental Studies, where he teaches courses on economics of the environment and natural resources and on corporate environmental strategy. “ Hydro-Political Hyperbole: Examining Incentives for Overemphasizing the Risks of Water Wars,” written in Global Environmental Politics, February 2011 </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.726.pdf%20Accessed%206/23/12|http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.726.pdf Accessed 6/23/12]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Critiques of the Water War Hypothesis A number critiques have been leveled against both the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__“support for a scarcity theory of water conflict is somewhat ambiguous__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 42</span>


**Conflict resolution mechanisms in existing water treaties prevent escalation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">De Stefano, et. al, 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lucia De Stefano, Expert in Soil & Groundwater and Geologist at Oregon State University, “Climate change and the institutional resilience of international river basins,” Written in Journal of Peace Research, 2012 49: 193 </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://jpr.sagepub.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/49/1/193.full.pdf+html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Accessed 6/23/12 BJM=</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conflict resolution </span>__Conflict resolution mechanisms, such as third-party involvement or arbitration,__
__AND__
__with a transboundary RBO will deal better with present and projected water variability.__

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Federalism </span>=== 
**Non-Unique— MARAD is the legitimate authority of marine transportation and actively involved now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 71]
In closing, MARAD will use its current authorities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, as delegated by the Secretary</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
representatives, and the public to insure the success of this important initiative.

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">No risk of encroachment that’s substantial enough to alter federalism</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Ernest </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Young</span><span style="color: black;">, Law Prof @ Texas, May </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">2003</span><span style="color: black;">, Texas Law Review, ln</span>
<span style="color: black;">One of the privileges of being a junior faculty member is that senior colleagues often</span>
<span style="color: black;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black;">balance. Don't make it sound like you think the sky is falling."</span>

**States and Federal power aren’t zero sum --- concurrent regulation is the norm**
**<span style="color: black;">Schapiro ‘06</span>**
<span style="color: black;">(Robert, Prof Law – Emory, Fordham Law Review, March, Lexis)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">The jurisprudence of Justice John Paul Stevens advances a strong vision of national unity.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">inclination to return to the pre-New Deal conceptions of dual sovereignty.</span>

**No international modeling of federalism**
**<span style="color: black;">Moravcsik, 05</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Andrew, “Dream On America”, Newsweek, 1/31, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: black;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/6857387/site/newsweek/]]</span><span style="color: black;">)</span>
<span style="color: black;">Not long ago, the American dream was a global fantasy. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Not only Americans</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="color: black;">and legal system are out of step with the rest of the world</span>__<span style="color: black;">.</span>

**Kashmir conflict Doesn’t go nuclear – they will stay conventional**
**Chari 03**– P.R. Chari is a Research Professor. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"IPCS Nuclear Crisis, Escalation Control, and Deterrence in South Asia” P.R. Chari Working Paper Version 1.0 August 2003 http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/escalation_chari_1.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__the involvement of nuclear installations in the Indo-Pak crises__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of 1984</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__prevailing atmosphere of mistrust and convictions regarding the irrationality of the “Other.”__

===2AC Spending=== 
**No L-U - State of the Union push for ports should’ve triggered the link**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Transport Topics 2/13</span>/2013 “Obama Touts Infrastructure, Nat Gas in State of Union Speech” http://www.ttnews.com/articles/basetemplate.aspx?storyid=31240&t=Obama-Touts-Infrastructure-Nat-Gas-in-State-of-Union-Speech
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his </span>__State of the Union speech__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tuesday night, President </span>Obama pitched<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">businesses need most, [including] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">modern ports to move our goods</span>.”


**The U.S economy is resilient- recovery already happening**
**Reuters 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(., Apr 9, “U.S. economic growth gauge shows "resilient" recovery: ECRI”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE63836220100409)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ueconomy resilient- recent drops don’t apply//ts)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Reuters) </span>__- A measure of future U.S. economic growth fell__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of ECRI, reaffirming the group's recent forecasts. </span>


**Economic Collapse doesn’t lead to war – only hurts internal growth, 2008 proves**
**PEW 10** (Summarizing the PEWs report of the 2008 economic collapse by Phillip Swagel, 4/28/10, The Impact of the September 2008 Economic Collapse, http://www.pewtrusts.org/our_work_report_detail.aspx?id=58695)
SUMMARY__U.S. households lost on average nearly $5,800 in income__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the financial crisis than what was predicted by the September 2008 CBO forecast.</span>
===2AC China Steel=== 
**Chinese economic collapse is inevitable – it’s __impossible__ to meet future energy demand**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Heinberg, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – fellow at the Post Carbon Institute, fellow at the Committee on International Trade and advisor to the European Parliament, National Petroleum Council, and the U.S. Secretary of Energy, (Richard, “China's Coal Bubble...and how it will deflate U.S. efforts to develop "clean coal”, Post Carbon Institute, May 4, 2010, http://www.postcarbon.org/article/96251-china-s-coal-bubble-and-how-it-will)//JK</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China: Leading the Global Economy…Into the Ditch   Some commentators are concerned </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">constraints that are harsher, and closer, than we are being told.</span>

**3. No link- no specific articulation as to why the aff is key internal link**

**4. Aff solves- we export scrap to China and then they can sell it off- using more U.S. steel only means they have more scrap to sell**

**5. China Steel weak now- slowed growth, profit decline, and export slump prove**
**China Daily 6-23**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [China Daily, 6-23-12, “China crude steel sector grows slower”, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/business/2012-06/23/content_15519267.htm]], accessed 6/24]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BEIJING - </span>Growth of China's crude steel output slowed in the first five months,
AND
a major steel user, and exports slumped amid a lingering eurozone crisis<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
===2AC Oil (Russia)=== 

**Russian oil industry terminally unsustainable—diminishing returns**
**Mikhailov 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- International business journalism community laureate recipient (Alexei “Russian economy on feet of clay”Gazeta 27.03.12 [[http://en.gazeta.ru/opinions/2012/03/27/a_4107689.shtml]] ajones)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the core industry of Russian economy –in oil and gas – something is </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">liquidation of "special tax regime" for Gazprom will only benefit Russia.</span>

**Drop in oil prices solves Russian economy—key to reform**
**NEWSWEEK 10-6-2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Russia Hit The Rocks Hardest; The market crash is due in part to Georgia, even if Putin doesn't think so,” Oct 6, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In truth, </span>__the Kremlin does know exactly what needs to be done--but__
__AND__
__--markets matter, too, and they are becoming Russia's Achilles' heel__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Russian economy can withstand low prices**
**RIA Novosti 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russian economy can survive low oil prices – Kudrin” September 09 11 http://en.rian.ru/business/20110926/167139562.html ajones)</span>
The Russian economy will be able to function normally <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for a year</span>, if global
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">, stood at $109.2 per barrel in January-August 2011</span>
===2AC Food Prices=== 

**Rising food prices result in World War Three and collapses the global economy --- historical cycles prove**
**Droke 3/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—editor of the three times weekly Momentum Strategies Report; frequently covers the current status of the economy (2012, Clif, “Rising fuel costs and the next Revolution,” [[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article33595.html]], DA: 7/1/2012//JLENART)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__economic and political importance of high food prices can’t be underestimated.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To take </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//__could experience another transformation and our life style as we know it today.”__//

//**High food prices undermine Middle Eastern stability and cause US-China war**//
//**KEREVAN 2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(George, SNP list candidate for the Lothians at the Holyrood elections in May, “Putting the bite on food production,” The Scotsman, Jan 14)</span>//
//__THE global Food Wars have begun__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. At the start of January, the UN </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>//
//__China that could seek to divert popular discontent with a bellicose foreign policy__.//

//**Higher food prices ensure political instability in the Middle East --- it quickly escalates**//
//**Thier 11**—Contributor to AOL World News (4 February 2011, “Are Record Food Prices Fueling Global Instability?” [[http://www.aolnews.com/2011/02/04/are-record-food-prices-fueling-global-instability/]], DA: 7/1/2012//JLENART)
__Food prices are rising__, warns the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, __and__
__AND__
__governments collapsing,"__ Brown said. __"It could get grim pretty fast."__

**High food prices make African conflict likely --- it threatens political and social stability**
**IRIN News 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—African news agency (22 June 2k9, “AFRICA: Prices keep food on the shelves,” [[http://www.irinnews.org/Report/84930/AFRICA-Prices-keep-food-on-the-shelves]], DA: 6/30/2012//JLENART)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ADDIS ABABA, 22 June 2009 (IRIN) - </span>__An increasing number of Africans__//
//__AND__//
//__in east and west Africa and in conflict countries," the report warned.__//

//**Nuclear war**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey</span> **Deutsch**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Rabid Tiger Project founder, professor of political science at New World University, November 18,</span>**2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">we do not endorse gendered language</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes that a</span> __nuclear war is most likely to start in__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">an ocean of troubled waters, and some people love to go fishing.</span>

**High food prices lead to poverty**
**Inman 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Economic Correspondent for The Guardian(Phillips, April 2011, “Food price rises pushing millions into extreme poverty, World Bank warns,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/14/food-price-inflation-world-bank-warning)JCP]]</span>

__Food producing countries must relax export controls and divert production away from biofuels to prevent__
__AND__
__increases would affect 34 million who are already close to the poverty line.__
====**AT: Biotech**==== 

**No bioterrorism and no impact---multiple obstacles**
**Stolar 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">October 2006, *Alex Stolar: Research Officer, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “BIOTERRORISM AND US POLICY RESPONSES ASSESSING THE THREAT OF MASS CASUALTY,” http://www.ipcs.org/pdf_file/issue/1659566521IPCS-Special-Report-31.pdf, AJ</span>
__Each of these steps presents **significant hurdles for terrorists**. Acquiring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a strain of a</span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">served so many doctors so well for so long: Primum non nocere. </span>


**Biotech investment low now**
**PHILADELPHIA ENQUIRER 6-26-2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (A tough environment for biotech investing, http://articles.philly.com/2012-06-26/business/32409711_1_investments-philadelphia-firm-bristol-firm)</span>
__The biotechnology industry's annual convention attracted more than 16,000 industry professionals__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to Boston</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__-ups to convince those with money to risk it on unproven technologies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC HMTF </span>=== 


**Counterplan precludes the aff – bankrupting the HMTF ensures ports cannot keep up with Marine highway traffic**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 09</span> (American Association of Port Authorities, Alliance of the Ports of Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America, and the United States American Association of Authorities, “Questions and Answers About America’s Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, AAPA, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]] CDG)

Over 90 percent of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the nation's top 50 </span>ports<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in foreign waterborne commerce r</span>equire regular
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also pollute the environment if ships’ hulls are breached are cargo is spilled.</span>

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It’s reverse causal— Expansion of Marine Highways is a //prerequisite// to the counterplan</span>**
**Heim and Tedesco ’09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [30 July 2009, General Dynamics NASSCO, Aimee Heim, General Dynamics NASSCO Matt Tedesco, Tedesco Consulting “A Shipbuilder’s Assessment of America’s Marine Highways,” pp. 23-24, http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. Coast Guard plays a critical role in maintaining maritime mobility</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is required to keep sensitive information related to the cargo from potential adversaries.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**No replacement for HMT- user fees fail.**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 09</span>-** American Association of Port Authorities, Alliance of the Ports of Canada
AND
that there are significant new or old options that would work better today.


**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Repeal of HMT collapses competitiveness</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eyerdam </span>4/20/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>(Rick Eyerdam, RAMP Act Remnant to stop the theft of Harbor Maintenance Tax now in conference, April 20, 2012 ,http://seshippingnews.typepad.com/south_east_shipping_news/2012/04/ramp-act-remnant-to-stop-the-theft-of-harbor-maintenance-tax-now-in-conference.html/arouse)
For too long, user fees deposited into the HMTF have not been fully utilized
AND
included in the final transportation bill signed by the President,” added Capps.


**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Links to Politics</span>**
**Bayles 12** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Cara Bayles “Congressman lobbies for dredging money March 18, 2012” http://www.houmatoday.com/article/20120318/ARTICLES/120319619)//NJain</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Next year’s federal budget could set aside more money for harbor dredging, and locals are hoping the money will trickle down to projects they say are vital for the area’s economy.</span>

__Congressman__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Jeff </span>__Landry,__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> R-New Iberia, </span>__is leading a bipartisan effort among__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">though an increase in U.S. imports have seen it swell. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC TIGER Grants</span>=== 

**Title XI loan guarantees are __critical__**
**MHC, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Marine Highways Cooperative, industry group dedicated to developing inland waterways, “Matsuda draws connections: Maritime administrator views U.S.-flag shipping from shore to sea”, 9/25/2010, http://www.marinehighways.org/index.php?page=news_events&more=44, Deech)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Maritime Administrator David T. Matsuda strongly believes U.S.- flag shipping’s well</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">operators. “Then you starve the program,” he told American Shipper.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">The TIGER grants are a failure – no economic effectiveness and misallocation of federal resources.</span>**
**Feigenbaum, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - policy analyst at Reason Foundation with a Master’s degree in City and Regional Planning with a concentration in Transportation from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Feigenbaum holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Public Policy from Georgia State University. (Baruch, “Evaluating and Improving TIGER Grants,” Reason Foundation, April 2012, [[http://reason.org/files/improving_transportation_tiger_grants.pdf]])//AS//</span>

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Stimulus funding is short-term and does not improve the economy over the long</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">promoted by a particular administration or earmarked by a legislator interested in securing reelection</span>//

//**The TIGER program is plagued with failed policy – no documentation of grant process.**//
//**Feigenbaum, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - policy analyst at Reason Foundation with a Master’s degree in City and Regional Planning with a concentration in Transportation from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Feigenbaum holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Public Policy from Georgia State University. (Baruch, “Evaluating and Improving TIGER Grants,” Reason Foundation, April 2012, [[http://reason.org/files/improving_transportation_tiger_grants.pdf]])</span>//AS

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While the DOT documented the Evaluation Teams’ reasons for decisions and assessment, it neither</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
own guidelines when it funded projects with lower review scores without explaining its reasoning

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Privatization</span>=== 
**Private sector lacks sufficient funds for capital infrastructure investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oberstar, 10</span> [Rep. James Oberstar, Chairman, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,
Marine Highways and Short Sea Shipping: The Future is Bright, Sea Technology, January 2010, Vol. 51, Issue 1]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Capital </span>investment in vessels and infrastructure <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is </span>another hurdle preventing a more robust marine highway
AND
requires, and the market for short sea shipping has not yet developed.

**Private investment growth slowing now – The INDUSTRY now perceives Fed action key**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 38]
While <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">progress has been made to advance</span> the concept of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America’s Marine Highway</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">much</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
-held perception that Federal leadership is required to make further significant progress.

Private action failing now- federal coordination key to realizing the potential of marine highways
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 6-7]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our</span> nation’s current<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> surface transportation </span>system is largely the result of public and private sector
AND
to both private users and the public at large <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may </span>not<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> be </span>realized.
2AC
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Topicality</span>== 

===**2AC Investment**=== 
**Counter interpretation**

**A. Investment includes loan guarantees**
**Chapman and Cutler** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">LLP Client Alert</span> **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Current issues relevant to our clients September 29, 2011 attorney advertising material Chicago new york salt lake city san Francisco chapman.com the American jobs act and its impact on a national infrastructure bank BK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Note: This is from the AIFA suggestion BK</span>
__Types__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Terms </span>__of Investments__ __Loans__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: projects are eligible for up to 50 percent</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__without penalty, from the proceeds of refinancing from non-Federal funding sources__

**B. Expanding Title XI is transportation infrastructure investment**
**MARAD ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [7 December, 2010, Maritime Administration, “Title XI Loan Guarantee Program: Actions Are Needed To Fully Address Oig Recommendations,” p. 12, http://www.oig.dot.gov/sites/dot/files/Title%20XI%20508%20Loan%20Gurantee%20Program.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Maritime Administration (MARAD) recognizes the importance of effective business processes and careful</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">been avoided by any action taken post-approval of the loan guarantee.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC In = Within</span>=== 
**“In” means “throughout”**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Words and Phrases 8</span>** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“United States” means all of the states</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA 6</span>** (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U]]</span>)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">United States</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When used in the </span>geographic sense<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, means </span>all<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1019&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=ORG|Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics ]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1&P_DATA_ID=11722&P_VERSION=1&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=INFO|Commercial Chemical Control Rules]][[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.navigate_term?p_term_id=292529&p_term_cd=TERMDIS|Term Detail]]</span>


===**2AC Transportation Infrastructure**=== 
**Increasing transportation infrastructure investment includes domestic shipping and shipyards**
<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MARAD ’07</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“The Maritime Administration and the U.S. Marine Transportation System: A Vision for the 21st Century” pp.23, November 2007, http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Vision_of_the_21st_Century_10-29.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While the marine transportation industry is increasingly global in nature, it is criti-</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. marine transportation infrastructure, including domestic shipping, shipyards and maritime personnel.</span>

**Vessels are “transportation infrastructure”**
**Heim and Tedesco, 9** — General Dynamics NASSCO, AND, Tedesco Consulting (Aimee and Matt, “A Shipbuilder’s Assessment of America’s Marine Highways”, 7/30/2009, http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf, Deech)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**In a ferry model, the vessel serves as one**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**piece of transportation infrastructure**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is fundamentally acting as a ship operator with negotiated agreements at terminal facilities.</span>

**Shipbuilding is a component of transportation infrastructure**
**BIS ’01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY, May 2001 “U.S. Shipbuilding and Repair,” National Security Assessment of the U.S. Shipbuilding and Repair Industry, http://www.bis.doc.gov/defenseindustrialbaseprograms/osies/defmarketresearchrpts/shipbuilding_and_repair.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. shipbuilding and repair industry is dependent on government policy for its long-term survival</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Shipbuilding and repair is an important component </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">not only of the nation's defense but also</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of America's transportation infrastructure.</span>

**Here’s our case list—the transportation systems sector is segmented into aviation, maritime including vessels and ports, mass transit, highway, freight rail, and pipelines**
**<span style="color: #222222;">DHS ‘07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Department of Homeland Security “Transportation Systems Critical Infrastructure and Key Resources Sector-Specific Plan as input to the National Infrastructure Protection Plan” May 2007 http://www.tsa.gov/assets/pdf/transportation_base_plan_appendixes.pdf)//dm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Nation’s </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">transportation network is a vast, open, accessible, interconnected system with</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">plans explain how each mode will incorporate sector goals into modal security programs.</span>

===**2AC TI ≠ Military**=== 

**Transportation Infrastructure includes military**
**DSCA 4/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [20 April 2012, Defense Security Cooperation Agency “C7.6. - Defense Transportation System (DTS),” http://www.dsca.osd.mil/samm/ESAMM/C07/7.06.htm, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">C7.6. - </span>Defense Transportation System<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (DTS) </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">C7.6.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C7.6.2. Methods of DTS use in Security Cooperation.</span>

===2AC Substantial=== 
**A substantial investment is over 20%**
**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)//EM//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>__C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>//

//**Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion**//
//**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)//EM

__This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>
==Critiques== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC "Baudrillard"</span>=== 

**Their arrogant critique of the world is possible only because of American prosperity, and unless we stop their whining, our society will collapse**
**Hanson ‘3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Victor Davis, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, Ph.D. from Stanford, “We Could Still Lose.” National Review Online. August 11. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. )</span>


__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If one were to collate the news reports about the Mosul shootout, the lessons</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—whining and debating to the end</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, even as they pass away.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their advocacy is a form of treason that will destroy American society, causing global conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sowell ‘6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Sowell, Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, “Where is the West?” 11-19-2006, </span>[[http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3|__http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">European nations protesting Saddam Hussein's death sentence, as they protested against forcing secrets out</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">but were so paralyzed by confusion that **we ended up being annihilated ourselves?**</span>__



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their alternative can’t solve international structure, so there’s only a risk that their criticism destroys national security</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist ‘5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J. R. Renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, received his B.A. from the University of California at Irvine where he also attended graduate school, working in the Politics and Society Group. Since leaving the program Mr. Nyquist has continued research in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory. Mr. Nyquist was contracted with the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency from 1988 until 1992 in the Soviet / Russian analysis group. June 17, “NATIONAL SECURITY VS. SPECIAL INTERESTS”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0617.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the response from last week’s column, Feminism and the Defense of the West</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ask the question: what stands higher: economic liberty or national security?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And as we become weaker, Russia will attack us – the alternative can’t change their behavior</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ruddy ’99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher Ruddy, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 8: Why are Most Americans Oblivious to These Terrifying Facts?,” NEWSMAX, March 17, 1999, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/17/151001]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spy agencies, like the CIA, also are often wrong. The CIA didn’t</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">an attack</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on US soil </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">too costly for the Russians to even contemplate</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC "Biopower" </span>=== 
====**<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">B-Ville Quarters </span>**==== 
(The "critique" that Rogers Heritage reads)

**Objective truth is knowable and verifiable – all decisions are formed based on evidence and logic**
**__Sokal ’96__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__** <span class="NormalWebChar">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Physics at New York University</span>**</span>
[Alan. “Transgressing the Boundaries: An Afterword.” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://physics.nyu.edu/~as2/afterword_v1a/afterword_v1a_singlefile.html]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__such epistemological agnosticism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">simply </span>__won't suffice__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least not </span>__for people who aspire__
__AND__
__to reasoned (albeit tentative) judgments based on that evidence and logic.__

**Turn— The critique creates a distinction between biological and political life that destroys value to life**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Fassin, 10**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Social Science Prof at Princeton (Didier, “Ethics of Survival: A Democratic Approach to the Politics of Life” Humanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism, and Development, Fall, Vol 1 No 1, Project Muse)dm</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conclusion </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Survival</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in the sense Jacques Derrida attributed to the concept in his last</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in its multiple forms but also in its everyday expression of the human</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Turn— Biopolitics creates strong government through citizen benefits- key to democracy and freedom**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Dickison, 2004** - associate professor of history at UC Davis (Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse about "Modernity””, accessed from JSTOR on 7/4/12)</span>BZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nor should we stop at a reexamination of knowledge and technology. It might make</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__on considering the fact that modern biopolitics has “worked” phenome­nally well.__

**And, that checks radicalization of biopolitics—empirically proven.**
**Dickinson 04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Edward Ross, Associate Professor of History at the University of California-Davis, “ Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse about "Modernity"”, in Central European History, Vol. 37, No. 1 (2004), pg 18-19.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In an important programmatic statement of 1996 Geoff Eley celebrated the fact that </span>__Foucault's ideas__
__AND__
__not develop the dynamic of constant radicalization and escalation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that characterized Nazi policies.</span>

**Biopolitics key to global US heg**
<span class="Heading4Char">__Reid 5__ </span>– Professor of International Relations – University of Sussex) Third World Quarterly v (2 June, “The Biopolitics of the War on Terror”, )(
Julian; . 26 n.

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The defining feature of the modern international system has been the ongoing conflict between the</span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">States </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is asserted today other than in the context of a global biopolitics.</span>__</span>

**Heg prevents Global Nuclear War**

**__Khalilzad 95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– RAND Institute (Spring, “Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War”, ) (Zalmay; , Washington Quarterly l/n)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system</span>
====**March Madness Quarters**==== 
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Permutation do both— The perm allows a system of benign engineering that takes both safety and social aspects into account</span>**
**Neluheni, 01**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Professor of Urban Transportation Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee (Malindi, “Changing Identities in Transportation: Definition and Measurement of Cultural Exclusion in Innovative Design,” http://www.msas.maliwatch.org/msas2002/pdf/msas_pp048_56.pdf)//HK//</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5. DISSEMINATION AND APPLICATION </span>Knowledge<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, information and culture are increasingly becoming </span>borderless<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">engineering standards would be based on shared ideals among the community or subgroup.</span>

**Biopower is inevitable**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wright, 2008</span>** - Fellow at the Centre for Global Political Economy (Nathan,“Camp as Paradigm: Bio-Politics and State Racism in Foucault and Agamben”, http://ccjournal.cgu.edu/past_issues/nathan_wright.html)dm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the one failure of Foucault’s that, unresolved, rings as most ominous is </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">inquiry and hope of a politics that escapes the problem of this racism.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Liberal government solves—biopower must be combined with a concept of racial sovereignty to cause their impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean, 04</span>** – professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle (Mitchell, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)//HK
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second Thesis</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: It is not merely the succession or addition of the modern powers </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">bio-politics from that of modern totalitarian states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and older police states.</span>


**Turn— The critique creates a distinction between biological and political life that destroys value to life**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Fassin, 10**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Social Science Prof at Princeton (Didier, “Ethics of Survival: A Democratic Approach to the Politics of Life” Humanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism, and Development, Fall, Vol 1 No 1, Project Muse)dm</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conclusion </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Survival</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in the sense Jacques Derrida attributed to the concept in his last</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in its multiple forms but also in its everyday expression of the human</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

====**March Madness Finals**==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">**There are no prior questions to problem oriented IR- empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action** </span>
**Owen 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Owen</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that </span><span class="CardText1Char">‘[a] </span>
AND
<span class="CardText1Char">the first and second dangers, and so a potentially </span><span class="CardText2Char">vicious circle arises.</span>

**Permutation do both— The perm allows a system of benign engineering that takes both safety and social aspects into account**
**Neluheni, 01**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Professor of Urban Transportation Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee (Malindi, “Changing Identities in Transportation: Definition and Measurement of Cultural Exclusion in Innovative Design,” http://www.msas.maliwatch.org/msas2002/pdf/msas_pp048_56.pdf)//HK//</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5. DISSEMINATION AND APPLICATION </span>Knowledge<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, information and culture are increasingly becoming </span>borderless<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">engineering standards would be based on shared ideals among the community or subgroup.</span>

**Biopower is inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wright, 2008</span> - Fellow at the Centre for Global Political Economy (Nathan,“Camp as Paradigm: Bio-Politics and State Racism in Foucault and Agamben”, http://ccjournal.cgu.edu/past_issues/nathan_wright.html)dm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the one failure of Foucault’s that, unresolved, rings as most ominous is</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">inquiry and hope of a politics that escapes the problem of this racism.</span>

**Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures**
**Tuathail, 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>

__While theoretical debates at academic conferences are important to academics, the discourse and concerns__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">needs to always be open to the patterned mess that is human history.</span>

**Realism is inevitable— the alternative results in genocide and instability**
**Bacevich 5**
Andrew J. Bacevich is a professor of international relations at Boston University, Boston Globe, 11-6-05, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.boston.com/news/globe/ideas/articles/2005/11/06/the_realist_persuasion/?page=1]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>__when it comes to moral issues, realism has gotten a bum__
__AND__
__-gooder record of achievement, realism just might deserve a second look.__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ceding to the negative's antics is suicide – the only risk of international violence is a world in which the U.S. succumbs to internal criticism</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span>**__Sowell__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, November 16, 20</span>**__06__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “Where is the West?” http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3, Accessed Online: 09/11/2008. //wku-tjs// </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">European nations protesting Saddam Hussein's death sentence, as they protested against forcing secrets out </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">but were so paralyzed by confusion that we ended up being annihilated ourselves?</span>__</span>

**The only tangible threat to US primacy is isolationism – affs rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span>**__Kristol__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Visiting Professor in Government at Harvard University, </span>**__and__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**__Kagan__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August 19</span>**__96__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276, Accessed Online: 09/11/2008. wku-tjs </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BENEVOLENT HEGEMONYTWENTY YEARS later, </span>__it is time once again to challenge an indifferent America__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">needs a neo-Reaganite foreign policy of military supremacy and moral confidence.</span>

=====**1AR Imperialism Good (lulz..sam..)**===== 
**Cultural Imperialism is a Process of Preserving World Peace and Guaranteeing Survival**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>**__Tracisnsky__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Writer for the Ayn Rand Institute, October 8, 20</span>**__01__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “//An Empire of Ideals//,” http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page-NewsArticle&id=7392&news_iv_ctrl=1076, //wku-tjs</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[**THIS CARD IS NOT FOR THE FAINT OF HEART!]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Everyone has finally awakened to the deadly threat posed by terrorism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and some are </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">light, the light of benevolent Western ideals, is the best disinfectant.</span>


===**2AC Nietzsche**=== 

**Nietzsche’s logic is self-defeating and circular**

**Quodlibet Journal 04,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Quodlibet Journal is a peer-reviewed academic journal of philosophy. The Failure of Friedrich Nietzsche and Sigmund Freud’s Objection to Thomistic (Objective) “Truth” and “Right” Author: Joseph Steineger Quodlibet Journal: Volume 6 Number 1, January - March 2004 ISSN: 1526-6575 http://www.quodlibet.net/articles/steineger-aquinas.shtml</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point in contrasting Aquinas’ position for a single standard of truth and right against</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__is good____; all of which are value judgments forbidden by relativist presuppositions.__


**Extinction first**
**Connolly 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, Identity\Difference: Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox By William E. Connolly [[http://books.google.com/books?id=1F2j604_ByEC&pg=PA187&lpg=PA187&dq=%22The+Nietzschean+conception%22+%E2%80%A6+%22above+this+tendency.%22&source=bl&ots=28Nhhd--CI&sig=xcl30jg-aAEHIVl-ZBXy1OlpxqU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j2cHUIblKIP49QSP-vCzBA&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22The%20Nietzschean%20conception%22%20%E2%80%A6%20%22above%20this%20tendency.%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=1F2j604_ByEC&pg=PA187&lpg=PA187&dq=%22The+Nietzschean+conception%22+%E2%80%A6+%22above+this+tendency.%22&source=bl&ots=28Nhhd--CI&sig=xcl30jg-aAEHIVl-ZBXy1OlpxqU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j2cHUIblKIP49QSP-vCzBA&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22The%20Nietzschean%20conception%22%20%E2%80%A6%20%22above%20this%20tendency.%22&f=false]]</span>

__The Nietzschean conception of a few who overcome resentment above politics while the rest remain__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to existential resentment and an affirmation of life that rises above this tendency.</span>


**Even if suffering is inevitable, we should act to lessen the //__intensity__// of suffering**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Mayerfield 2 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D from Princeton, associate professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Washington</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jamie, Ph.D from Princeton, associate professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Washington, "Suffering and Moral Responsibility," 2002, book</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">If we try to locate the threshold </span>of lexical priority <span style="font-family: Georgia;">within suffering, we might</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
//never be crossed//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> if the only</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> purpose is to bring happiness to others.</span>


**Nuclear fear is __vital__ to prevent nuclear conflict**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Child, 86</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James W., professor of philosophy, Bowling Green State University, “Nuclear War: The Moral Dimension,” Transaction Publishers, pg. 176, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise, </span>**__we must develop strong__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__unfrightened__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__affirmative attitudes toward__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>**__risk of__**
**__AND__**
__of nuclear war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if we are ever </span>__to make that risk go away.__

====**1AR Suffering Sucks**==== 
**Some suffering may be inevitable – but extreme suffering is unjustified**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Edelglass, 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William, Department of Philosophy, Colby College in Maine, “Levinas on Suffering and Compassion,” Sophia, Volume 45, Issue 2, October 2006, pg. 43-59, SpringerLink, pdf, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Levinas's phenomenology, </span>__mild discomfort can be mastered by consciousness.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But, </span>
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">consider suffering to be evil only </span>__when it is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> both </span>__severe and unjustified.__

**Extreme suffering is //__inherently bad__// – it's impossible to determine how individuals view suffering**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hooft, 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stan Van, professor of philosophy, Deakin University in Melbourne, “The Meanings of Suffering,” The Hastings Center Report, Volume 28, Issue 5, pg. 13-19, JSTOR, pdf, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reflecting on the Holocaust, Levinas concedes that </span>**__suffering of such magnitude and__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such </span>**__uselessness__**
**__AND__**
__destroys__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our </span>__self-possession and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our </span>__self-satisfied enjoyment of life.__

===2AC Bataille=== 

**There is zero preclusion of the utilitarian mindset even if our morals aren’t utilitarian – means the perm’s the best option**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kymlicka, 90</span> – Professor of Philosophy and Canada Research Chair in Political Philosophy at Queen's University at Kingston, Recurrent Visiting Professor in the Nationalism Studies program at the Central European University, B.A. (Honours) in philosophy and political studies from Queen's University, Ph.D. from Oxford University, (Will, “Contemporary Political Philosophy”, Clarendon and Oxford, 1990, Print)//JKahn//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We should not be U—agents who decide how to act by making utilitarian</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//that they are morally illegitimate—they do not deserve to be counted.//

//**The ‘severance of the head’ is a violent metaphor that destroys self-determination and turns the alt**//
//**Sinister, 10** – staff writer for the Scavenger, Ipinicus Rampant, and No New Year, (Gauche, “Why the use of metaphors is oppressive”, The Scavenger, October 10, 2010, http://www.thescavenger.net/people/why-the-use-of-metaphors-is-oppressive-78235-481.html)//JKahn

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NB: This post is full of language that may be offensive, derogatory or</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, unimportant). I want richly layered associative meaning. I want poetry. </span>


**Bataille is wrong - energy and resources are finite and is being consumed rapidly now. Excessive consumption will cause extinction**
**Trainer, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ted Trainer, Senior Lecturer in the School of Social Work at the University of New South Wales. “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain a Consumer Society” p. 128-29) </span>

__It is of the utmost importance to recognize that whether or not renewable energy can__
__AND__
__the basic cause of the many alarming sustainability problems now threatening our survival.__

**The alternative eternally __dooms humanity__ – makes __endless catastrophe__ inevitable**

**Shaviro, 90** (Steven, PhD from Yale, professor at Wayne State University, former professor at University of Washington, “Passion and Excess,” The Florida State University Press, pg. 37-39, Tashma)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span>__if the intensity of Bataille’s involvement is clear__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the </span>__details of its expression__
__AND__
__texts is matched only by the pointless dissipation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the energies </span>__they invoke.__

<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Utilitarianism is moral</span>**</span>
<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kymlicka, 90</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Professor of Philosophy and Canada Research Chair in Political Philosophy, Queen's University at Kingston, Recurrent Visiting Professor, Central European University, “Contemporary Political Philosophy,” Clarendon Press, pg. 10-11, Tashma)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">features of </span>util<span style="font-size: 8pt;">itarianism that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">make it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an attractive theory of political </span>moral<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ity</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that challenge those who claim authority over us in the name of morality.</span>


===**2AC Capitalism**=== 
**There are a lot of different versions we read, but here are all the cards we've read in the past**

**Human nature kills the transition away from capitalism**
**Wilkinson 5** – Academic Coordinator of the Social Change Project and the Global Prosperity Initiative at The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mercatus_Center|Mercatus Center]] at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Mason_University|George Mason University]]
Will, Capitalism and Human Nature, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/policy_report/pr-index.html|Cato Policy Report]] Vol. XXVII No. 1

__Emory professor of economics and law__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paul </span>__Rubin__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> usefully </span>__distinguishes between "productive" and__
__AND__
__the human taste for hierarchical status, but to no one's serious detriment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Capitalism is self-correcting—it __creates the conditions__ for reflexivity**
**Cudd 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 124</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__capitalism promotes innovation, and as a path to technical innovation, science__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">this way, </span>**__capitalism creates the conditions for trenchant critiques of capitalist fetishes__.**

**Capitalism solves war**
**Cudd 10** – Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” Google Book</span>

__Does capitalism cause more wars? This has long been an argument of socialists against__
__AND__
__security__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of persons and property generally </span>__is the necessary condition for capitalist development__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Cap is key to biomedical advances – solves disease**
**Cudd 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 41-42</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise </span>__scientific advances require much wealth investment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Easterlin__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> argues that scientific innovations do not</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__, and developing vaccines, pain killers, and cures for syphilis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.47</span>

**Extinction**
**Yu 9** - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

__A pandemic will kill off all humans.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the past, humans have indeed</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (10). </span>

**Capitalism is progressive, self-correcting, and wealth-generating – ensures sustainability**
**Goklany 7**-Julia Simon Fellow @ the Political Economy Research Center [Indur, Reason.com, “Now for the Good News,” 3/23/2007, [[http://reason.com/archives/2007/03/23/now-for-the-good-news]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmentalists and </span>__globalization foes are united in their fear that__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">greater </span>__population and consumption__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__of knowledge, technology, people, and goods breed stagnation or regression__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The alt alone is coopted – you need a multitude of standpoints means the perm solves**
**Carroll 10 –** *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198)

__Just as hegemony has been increasingly organized on a transnational basis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – through the globalization </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__-hegemony to gain a foothold__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rahmon and Langford 2010: 63).</span>

**Capitalism solves war**
**Griswold 5**- Director of the Cato institute center for trade policy studies (Daniel, “Peace on earth? Try free trade among men,” 12/28/05, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5344)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>__trade and globalization have reinforced the trend toward democracy, and democracies don't__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of their intertwined economies, a general war in Europe is now unthinkable. </span>

**Capitalism is key to the formation of successful space programs**
**Martin 10** (Robert, Amerika, June 21, [[http://www.amerika.org/politics/centrifuge-capitalism/]], accessed: 3 July 2011)

__Centralization and capitalism are necessary for any intelligent civilization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, yet in excess drains the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">so padded from outside reality that they completely ignore the world around them. </span>

**Extinction - we have to go to space**
**Garan, 10** – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/, JMP)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resources and Other Benefits: </span>__Since we live in a world of finite resources and__
__AND__
__of exploration.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The first step is a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.</span>

**Cap is a pre requisite to ethics**
**Tracinski 8** – editor of the Intellectual Activist [Robert, The Moral and the Practical, http://www.moraldefense.com/Philosophy/Essays/The_Moral_and_the_Practical.htm]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stated in more fundamental terms, capitalism is practical because it relies on the inexhaustible </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">protects and encourages them—is an ever-increasing wealth and prosperity. </span>
==Case Turns== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Heg Bad</span>=== 
**Heg is durable – status quo conditions of accommodation and nuclear peace sustain unipolarity**
**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Monteiro 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Nuno P., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University (June 13, 2011, “BALANCING ACT WHY UNIPOLARITY MAY BE DURABLE,” </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.nunomonteiro.org/wp-content/uploads/Nuno-Monteiro-Balancing-Act-20110613.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What is, then, wrong with the argument that unipolarity is indeed durable?</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">eventually shifting the systemic balance of power and putting an end to unipolarity.</span>__

**Unipolarity prevents conflict and solves great power wars**
**Wohlforth, ‘9**. William, professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics v61, n1, January, Muse.
The evidence suggests that narrow and asymmetrical capabilities gaps foster status competition even among states
AND
__war could once again form the backdrop of world politics__.

**The US can continue its dominance well into the future**
**Thayer, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University (Bradley A., American Empire, Routledge, page 12)</span>
__The United States has the ability to dominate the world because it has prodigious military__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">dominate international politics?” and “Should America domi-nate international politics?”</span>

**Multipolar strategies trigger protectionism, chaos, and increased global warming – the US should focus on maintaining its current position**
Michael <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Beckley</span> 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12 - </span>PhD student at Columbia University and a predoctoral fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (The Unipolar Era: Why American Power Persists and China’s Rise Is Limited, Columbia University)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One danger is that declinism could prompt trade conflicts and immigration restrictions</span>. The results
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">abroad casts doubt on the wisdom of such calls for radical policy change</span>.

====**AT: Unsustainable-Econ**==== 
**Hegemony cannot be equated with economic size – the British empire proves**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beckley</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12 - </span>PhD student at Columbia University and a predoctoral fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (The Unipolar Era: Why American Power Persists and China’s Rise Is Limited, Columbia University)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Economic size</span>, however, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">does not necessarily make China a contender for superpower status</span>
AND
world and several times higher than China’s and India’s at the time.136

====**AT: China Turn**==== 
**China Threat now**
**O’Rourke 7/31** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[31 July 2012, Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf, p.4-5, AZhang]</span>

DOD and other observers believe that the near-term focus of China’s military modernization effort
AND
an expanding array of new missions at home and abroad.

**Only increased naval __capacity__ can deter growing Chinese capabilities – action now is vital**
**O’Rourke 12** **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Ronald, specialist in Naval Affairs, “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities – Background and Issues for Congress”, //Congressional Research Service//, June 14th, 2012, </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf)//AMV]]</span>
__One potential oversight issue for Congress__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, particularly in the context of reductions in planned </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of two amphibious ships, and the deferral of some planned ship procurements.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Heg prevents China-Taiwan war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brookes 08</span> – Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission (Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We know that </span>China is undergoing a major mil­<span class="underline">itary</span> buildup<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially involving </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
develop an overarching security architecture<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such as that found in Europe in NATO.</span>

====**AT: Iran Turn**==== 
**Iran will stage a preemptive attack— this devastates oil supplies, sends massive shockwaves through the economy, and precipitates Israel strikes**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Williams, 10</span> [Adjunct Professor at Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, PhD in Defense and Strategic Studies, U Madras, Lawrence, Peril Awaits at the Strait of Hormuz]

Five, in an event of a conflagration in the Strait of Hormuz, there are increasing possibilities
AND
even more dealing with a decimation to the global economy.
==== ==== 
====**AT: Multipolarity Good**==== 
**Multipolar strategies trigger protectionism, chaos, and increased global warming – the US should focus on maintaining its current position**
Michael <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Beckley</span> 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12 - </span>PhD student at Columbia University and a predoctoral fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (The Unipolar Era: Why American Power Persists and China’s Rise Is Limited, Columbia University)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One danger is that declinism could prompt trade conflicts and immigration restrictions</span>. The results
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">abroad casts doubt on the wisdom of such calls for radical policy change</span>.

**Social status drives hegemonic conflict – comprehensive empirical studies conclude that only unipolarity can influence the likelihood of conflict – historical conflicts were all predicted by this theory**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span><span class="Heading2Char">Wohlforth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of government at Dartmouth College) </span><span class="Heading2Char">2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”Project Muse</span>

Despite increasingly compelling findings concerning the importance of status
AND
Rome, Assyria, the Amarna system—appears consistent with the hypothesis.43

====**AT: Transition Turn**==== 
**Transition wont be smooth – the US will cling to a false unipolar reality**
David P. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calleo</span> (University Professor at The Johns Hopkins University and Dean Acheson Professor at its Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span> “Follies of Power: America’s Unipolar Fantasy” p. 4-5

It is tempting to believe that America’s recent misadventures will discredit and suppress our hegemonic longings
AND
When powerful and interdependent nations hold visions of the world severely at odds with one another, the world grows dangerous.

**US fall will be violent- empirically proven.**
**Miles 6/12/12**- senior fellow at the Palestine Chronicle, “A Dying Empire”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.palestinechronicle.com/view_article_details.php?id=19352]]</span>).
__At one point in my youth it became clear that the U.S.__
__AND__
__the application of the dictates of the militarized state within the police forces.__

====**AT: Terrorism Turn**==== 
**WITHDRAWAL DOES NOT SOLVE TERRORISM BUT DOES ELIMINATE DETERRENCE, INCREASING ATTACKS**
Anthony **__Cordesman__**, Chair in Strategy at the CSIS, Naval War College Review, **__2002__** (http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_55/ai_92745786/pg_13)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">That said, U.S. military forces cannot afford simply to deal with </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">allies) </span>__will only have lost **substantial** **deterrent** and defensive capability by withdrawing__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Competitiveness Bad </span>=== 
**Competition is inevitable – engaging in action creates sustained social improvement**
Fainstein 01 – professor in Harvard Graduate School of Design<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susan S. “Competitiveness, Cohesion, and Governance: Their Implications for Social Justice”, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, Volume 25.4, December 2001, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://internal.gsd.harvard.edu/people/faculty/fainstein/docs/Competitiveness,%20Cohesion%20Governance%20IJURR%20final.pdf)//FK]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This returns us to the question of the relationship between competitiveness and cohesion. On</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__by a capabilities approach to social justice but nevertheless is a necessary condition.__

**Competition prevents extinction – allows for disputes to be resolve without war**
**Gartzkey, 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Erik, UC San Diego Political Science Department (“Interdependence Really is Complex,” 2/15/10, http://dss.ucsd.edu/~egartzke/papers/complexinterdep_02242010.pdf)RK</span>

__Strategists in the early nuclear era faced a fundamental challenge. How was competition possible__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">also imply that interdependent dyads should be more peaceful than asymmetrically dependent dyads.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Dedevelopment</span>=== 
in this round it was a separate off lol.

**Growth and capitalism is inherently __sustainable__ – it provides an __incentive__ to preserve resources – eventual high prices will __curb consumption__ – triggers a __mindset shift__ towards __sustainability__ without __collapse__**
**Cudd, 11** (Ann E., Professor of Philosophy, Associate Dean for Humanities, University of Kansas, “<span style="color: black;">Capitalism, For and Against - A Feminist Debate,” Cambridge University Press, Section 3, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I agree with Professor Holmstrom that </span>**__we should be__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>**__concerned with__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pollution, and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__from the more scarce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and therefore more expensive, </span>__privately owned good.__

**Growth __solves__ structural violence**
**Bhagwati, 4** (Jagdish N., <span style="color: black;">Columbia University, </span>Economics Department<span style="color: black;">, </span>“In Defense of Globalization,” Oxford University Press, pg. 55-60, Tashma)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let me add that </span>**__growth is__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>**__a powerful mechanism that__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> brings to life social</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__greater use of clean water, among other things, by the poor.__

**Growth is key to biomedical advances – solves disease**
**Cudd 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 41-42</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise </span>__scientific advances require much wealth investment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Easterlin__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> argues that scientific innovations do not</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__, and developing vaccines, pain killers, and cures for syphilis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.47</span>

**Extinction**
**Yu 9** - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

__A pandemic will kill off all humans.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the past, humans have indeed</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (10).</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Collapse doesn’t create a mindset shift -- increases resource competition and violence.**</span>
Monbiot 2009<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George Monbiot, columnist for the Guardian, has held visiting fellowships or professorships at the universities of Oxford (environmental policy), Bristol (philosophy), Keele (politics), Oxford Brookes (planning), and East London (environmental science), “Is there any Point in Fighting to stave off industrial apocalypse”,” 8/17/09 http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cif-green/2009/aug/17/environment-climate-changeMkoo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the first observation, this follows: even if you are hardened to the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
of the involuntary failure of industrial civilisation is also to succumb to denial.//

**Growth __improves__ the environment**
**Bhagwati, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jagdish N., </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Columbia University, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economics Department</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“In Defense of Globalization,” Oxford University Press, pg. 144-145, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>__as development occurs, economies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> typically </span>__shift from primary production, which__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">were somewhat aghast at this erroneous, ideological interpretation of their research findings.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Add-ons</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Water Wars</span>=== 
**Free trade vital to solve water shortages; arguments to the contrary misinterpret the function of trade**
**Hoekstra et al, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– professor at Twente Water Centre, University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands (A.Y. Hoekstra, M.M. ALDAYA, Consultant, United Nations Environment Programme, Paris, France, B. Avril, European Science Foundation, Strasbourg, France, “ ACCOUNTING FOR WATER SCARCITY AND POLLUTION IN THE RULES OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE,” VALUE OF WATER RESEARCH REPORT SERIES NO. 54, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.waterfootprint.org/Reports/Report54-Proceedings-ESF-Workshop-Water-Trade.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, //JPL)</span>
__There is another deep connection between trade, water and climate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ricardian comparative advantages (for more, see below Table 7.1)</span>
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">2AC Natural Disasters</span>=== 
**The plan is essential to effective natural disaster evacuations**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MARAD, 11 </span>– the agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation dealing with waterborne transportation (Maritime Administration, “America’s Marine Highway - Report to Congress –“, United States Department of Transportation, April 2011, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://img.marinelink.com/pdf/Americas_Marine_Highway-Report_to_Congress-April_2011.pdf]]</span> | AK)

Improved Response and Recovery <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A transportation system that offers resiliency and affordable systems redundancy can</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">deterrent to terrorist attacks by limiting the duration and scale of intended disruptions</span>.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The racist refusal to allow evacuation is unjustifiable – plan solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Morse 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Racial discrimination in transportation extended to pedestrian traffic</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">as well. Four days after the</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">America agreed that the storm pointed out persistent problems of racial inequality. 214</span>__

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]