[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 23px; line-height: 34px;">Impact Turns</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 23px; line-height: 34px;">Dedev</span>== 

===Collapse Inevitable=== 

**Collapse of society is inevitable—it’s better to have it now than to have a catastrophic one in the future**
**MacKenzie 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Debora, Are We Doomed, New Scientist, Vol. 197 Issue 2650, p32-35, 4p, 4 May 2005, EBSCO )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound with tales of plague</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">stagnation or collapse, and </span>__in the long run__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> this </span>__cannot be sustainable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===War=== 

**Growth makes war inevitable**
**Trainer 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If this limits-to-growth analysis is at all valid, the implications</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">that is not possible unless rich countries move to ‘The Simpler Way’.</span>

**Extinction**
**Chase-Dunn 96**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems at the University of (Christopher, Conflict Among Core States: World-System Cycles and Trends, 23 January 1996, http://wsarch.ucr.edu/archive/papers/c-d&hall/warprop.htm, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Note-figure omitted</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Late </span>__in the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">K-wave </span>__upswing__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(i.e. </span>__in the 2020s__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">war). Boswell and Sweat call this the "resource theory of war." </span>

===Warming=== 

**Growth causes warming only a collapse can solve.**
**Siegel 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lee, Is Global Warming Unstoppable? Theory Also Says Energy Conservation Doesn't Help, 22 November 2009, http://www.unews.utah.edu/p/?r=112009-1, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In a provocative new study, a University of Utah scientist argues that rising</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__that policy decisions have the capacity to change the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">future </span>__course__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">of civilization."</span>

**Extinction**
**Tickell 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (8/11/08, Oliver Tickell – Climate Researcher, The Guardian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__warming caused by human__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> emissions </span>__could propel us towards a__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">similar</span> __hothouse Earth.__

===Eco-Collapse=== 

**Growth makes eco-collapse inevitable**
**Speth, law prof, 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental adviser and as head of the United Nations’ largest agency for international development Prof at Vermont law school. Former dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University . Former Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center, teaching environmental and constitutional law. .Former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality in the Executive Office of the President. Co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Was law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black JD, Yale. (James Gustave, The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But the much larger and more threatening impacts stem from the economic activity of those</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">modern capitalism, in each case seeking to identify the transformative changes needed. </span>

**Extinction**
**Chen 2k**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Professor of Law and Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar, University of Minnesota Law School (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers, Winter 2000, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157, Lexis, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ellipses in original</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conscious </span>__decisions to allow the extinction of a species__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or the destruction of an entire</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Homo sapiens -- in ten million years, perhaps a hundred million. 348</span>

===Poverty=== 

**Growth causes poverty**
**Trainer 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO, )</span>

__Rich countries__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> are taking most of the world’s resource production. Their per capita resource</span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">devoted to production by the people of the things they most urgently need. </span>

**That outweighs**
**Gilligan 96**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[James, professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes, p 191-196]</span>

__The deadliest form of violence is poverty__**.**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">You cannot work for one day with</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect.</span>


===2NC Root Cause=== 

**Voting negative is the only way to stop extinction—they ignore the root causes**
**Zizek 8—**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, Violence: Six Sideways Reflections , GoogleBooks, 11-13, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">note – ellipses in original </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is an old joke about a husband who returns home earlier than usual from</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__sound__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"-</span>__reality doesn't matter, what matters is the situation of capital__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">... </span>

===2NC Timeframe Helpers=== 

**Continued growth guarantees extinction—collapse now is our only hope**
**Barry 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University (Glen, Economic Collapse and Global Ecology, 14 January 2008, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an enormous conundrum -- sufficient climate policies enjoy</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">sabotage to hasten the day. It is more fragile than it looks.</span>

**It’s linear—the longer we wait, the worse it will be**
**Barry 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University (Glen, Resisting Global Ecological Change, 5 January 2010, https://mail.google.com/mail/?shva=1#inbox, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span>__human__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">family </span>__faces__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> imminent and (Copenhagen would suggest) inevitable </span>__collapse of the__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">the likelihood that a humane and ecologically whole Earth remains to be renewed.</span>

===2NC Transition=== 

**Collapse of the economy shifts to local communities—the transition might be bad, but it’s the only way to stop inevitable extinction**
**Lewis 2k**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—prof, U Colorado, Boulder. Ph.D. (Chris, Global Industrial Civilization: The Necessary Collapse, http://www.colorado.edu/AmStudies/lewis/ecology/lewglo.pdf, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The First World's failure to modernize and civilize the world should be seen not as</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">and the future of the complex, interconnected web of life on Earth. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
===2NC Prefer Our Ev=== 

**Prefer our evidence**
**Trainer 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">— Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales [Ted, “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain A Consumer Society”, p. 125-159] </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Above all it must be stressed how far beyond sustainable levels of production and consumption</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__public there is__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">an almost universal and impenetrable </span>__mentality of delusion and denial.__

==**Terrorism Good**== 
===**Central Asia**=== 
**Terror key to US presence in Central Asia**

**Tertrais 1**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research, (Bruno, 12/4/01, What are the Strategic and Geopolitical Consequences of the War Against Terrorism?)</span>
Finally, __I should add the__ acceleration of another long-term trend, which
AND
__countries in the region become sanctuaries for Al-Qaida-like organizations.__

**That solves nuclear war**
**Ahrari 1** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor of National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College (Dr. M. Ehsan, 8/1/01 www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112) </span>

__South and Central Asia constitute a part of the world where a well-designed__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">partners for the United States, thus representing a gain for all concerned. </span>

===Hegemony=== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Terrorism is key heg and military dominance**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**DuBoff 03** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prof. Economics at Bryn Mawr College (Richard, “US hegemony: Continuing Decline, Enduring Danger,” http://home.aubg.bg/students/SIG020/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Nowadays, cooperation among states is promoted in order to create a stable international community</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
proceed in order to become the undisputed leading power<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on the international arena. </span>

**Nuclear war**
**Khalilzad 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Former Assist Prof of Poli Sci at Columbia (Zalmay, Spring 1995 , The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2; P. 84)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.</span>

==Trade Bad== 
===1NC Trade Bad (Democracy)=== 
**Democracy— Increased trade trades off with our ability to sustain democracy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Johnson 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dave- Fellow at Campaign for America's Future, writing about American manufacturing, trade and economic/industrial policy. He is also a Senior Fellow with Renew California., March 3, “Free Trade or Democracy, Can't Have Both”, http://truth-out.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=7051:free-trade-or-democracy-cant-have-both)//JM//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Efficiency vs. Humanity Yes, countries where people do not have a say are</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//is that we need to shed our democracy, to be more competitive.//

//**Democracy is the only way to solve war**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Larry Diamond, Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict</span>, October 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span>, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s,” http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html, accessed on 12/11/99
OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-
AND
which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.
===1NC Trade Bad (Econ)=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Economy— Free Trade wrecks our economy- gives foreign companies a portal into our economy and only benefits MNC**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rusnak 6/1 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karl Rusnack- writer for economyincrisis.org, June 1 2012, “Multinationals Exploit FTA’s”, http://economyincrisis.org/content/multinationals-can-exploit-all-free-trade-agreements)//JM//</span>
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Free trade agreements have been detrimental to the United States’ economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is partially</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//wage countries while those at the top of big corporations reap the benefits.//
===1NC Trade Bad (War)=== 
//**War— Free trade increases vulnerability and asymmetry making conflict more likely**//
//**Denney and Gleason, 5/31** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven Denney, master’s candidate at the Graduate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from Harding University; Brian Gleason, master’s candidate at the Gradate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison (“ The Political Economy of Trade Policy: A Realist Perspective,” Yonsei University, 5/31/12, [[http://sinonk.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/the-political-economy-of-trade-policy-steven_c_denney-brian_d_gleason.pdf]], </span>//JPL)
__Realists differ from liberal understanding of interdependency through trade__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They do not dismiss</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of Hirschman’s classical theory, Kirschner will once again be brought to center stage</span>

===**1NC Trade Bad (Neolib) <3 DSchexy**=== 

**Daniel Schexnayder is awesome.**

**Free trade is a neoliberal project that creates an imbalanced trade system and empirically keeps nations stuck in poverty.**
**__Dubhashi ‘8__**, (PR, former Vice-Chanceller, Goa University, and an erstwhile Secretary, Government of India, Myth and Reality of Capitalism: Neo-Liberalism and Globalisation, Mainstream, Vol XLVII, No 1, December 20, 2008, http://www.mainstreamweekly.net/article1111.html)

Despite this, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span>World Bank and IMF imposed, as a part of the
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have in reality erected a new international trading system rigged in their favour.</span>

**Neoliberalism relies upon a regime of structural violence that increases poverty.**
**__El Kilombo Intergaláctico__**, actual communist collective based in Durham North Carolina. “The Fourth, the Sixth, the Other, and US” <http://inthemiddleofthewhirlwind.wordpress.com/15/>. **__2007__**. , DS)

__We want to talk first about a country where severe poverty has reached a three__
__AND__
__many countries into one country; it turns each country into many countries.__

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC Trade Bad (Disease)</span>=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Disease— Increased trade leads to increased pathogen spread- multiple reasons**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sciencedaily 11 (Sciencedaly.com, cites study done by researchers at the UK research councils’ Rural Economy and Land use programme, June 9, “Is Free Global Trade Too Great a Threat to Food Supplies, Natural Heritage and Health?”, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/06/110609083226.htm)//JM</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Researchers from the UK Research Councils' Rural Economy and Land Use Programme say that we</span>
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">recognise that free trade could, in some cases, pose unacceptable risks."</span>

**Infections disease spread risks global extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbruner 98</span> – Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution (John D., “Biological weapons: A plague upon all houses,” Foreign Policy, Dec 22, LN)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a considerable comfort and undoubtedly a key to our survival that, so</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">health, but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">fundamental security </span>problem for the species as a whole.

===2NC Impact- Biodiversity=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Trade policies expand industrial farming- that increases monocultures and destroys biodiversity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Branford 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sue Branford-co-editor of Seeding and manages the publications of the agricultural-diversity NGO, Grain. She reports regularly from Latin America for the BBC and the UK Guardian, October, “Food Soverienty- Reclaiming the Global Food System”, http://www.waronwant.org/attachments/Food%20sovereignty%20report.pdf)//JM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This </span>expansion of industrial farming has been facilitated by free trade policies, often imposed
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that is intrinsically linked to the security of present and future generations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 11</span>

==Hegemony Bad== 
===Unipol--> Russia, China War=== 
**Unipolar military dominance causes a high risk of nuclear war with Russia and China**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David P. </span>**Calleo, ‘3****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Currently director of the European Studies Program and //Professor @ Johns Hopkins// University. Taught at Brown, Yale and Columbia. //Member of the Council on Foreign Relations// and the International Institute for Strategic Studies, former research fellow at the University of Oxford. Past Rockefeller, Guggenheim and Fulbright fellow. Ph.D., Yale University. “Europe and America: Different Geopolitical Wavelengths,” Annual Foreign Policy Conference. Heinrich Böll Stiftung - November 13th, 2003, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">www.sais-jhu.edu/faculty/calleo/DGAP.doc</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**__Military superiority is frequently vulnerable to__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what might be called </span>**__the “Law of Asymmetrical__**
**__AND__**
**__of unipolar hegemony – can easily carry a high risk of nuclear war.__**
===Disease=== 
**Heg leads to disease spread in the third world – multipolarity solves**
**Weber et. al, ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven, professor of political science and director of the Institute of International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, all Ph.D. candidates at U.C., Berkeley and research fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, Foreign Policy, January/February, 2007, Issue 158, l/n]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The same is true for global public health. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Globalization is turning the world into</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Southeast Asia or sub-Saharan Africa. America can't change that alone.</span>

**Extinction**
**Yu ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Victoria, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, May 22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]</span>

**__In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Perhaps the best</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(10).</span>
===2NC Heg Unsustainable=== 
**Primacy will be impossible to sustain – dollar, fiscal pressure, rising challengers, overstretch**
**Layne 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A&M's George H.W. Bush School of Government & Public Service. "[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/|Graceful decline: the end of Pax Americana]]". The American Conservative. May 2010. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/]]) AK</span>
__China's economy has been growing much more rapidly than the United States' over the last__
__AND__
__with these hard decisions, Americans will find themselves afflicted with **hegemony fatigue**.__
===2NC Int'l Institutions Impact=== 
**Unipolarity collapses effective international institutions**
|| Randall L. **Schweller,** Jan/Feb, **’10**. //Professor of Poli Sci @ Ohio State//. Author of __Unanswered Threats: Political Constraints on the Balance of Power__, “Ennui Becomes Us,” The National Interest, Lexis.
**__IN INTERNATIONAL politics, the fewer the constraints on state behavior, the greater the__**
**__AND__**
**__to view life as banal, colorless, insipid, boring and characterless__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> ||
**Multipolar global institutions prevent extinction**
|| **Feffer, ‘9**. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis. ||

**__The neoconservative movement thrilled to__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">what it called </span>**__the "unipolar moment__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." After the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.</span>


==**China War Good**== 
===**1NC Frontline**=== 
**A. No risk of an impact—war now is key while China is weak**
**Godwin, 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University (Paul, Washington Journal of Modern China, “China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities” </span><span style="color: #3366bb; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__Although definitely a menacing capability, China confronts approximately 8,000 U.S__
__AND__
__degree of readiness. Deterrence under these conditions would seem to be assured.__

**B. Chinese militarization will cause nuclear and biological attacks, destroy the economy, and collapse heg—need to go to war now before they surprise attack us**
**Nyquist, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Geopolitical and economic theorist (Jeffrey R., “China’s Military Strategy,” 3/9/7, </span><span style="color: #3366bb; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2007/0309.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In October 1991, China’s paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, went to watch the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__the Chinese prepare to slaughter us. We blink and avert our gaze.__

**C. Need to go to war now to prevent Chinese buildup and modernization—they will inevitably spark a war. We indict your authors**
**Nyquist, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Geopolitical and economic theorist (Jeffrey R., “Recent China Revelations,” 3/9/7, </span><span style="color: #3366bb; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On June 9 the Washington Times published a story by Bill Gertz titled Analysts Missed</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__servicemen will be killed by U.S. technology in Chinese hands.__

===**AT: Economic Ties**=== 
**Can’t increase strategic cooperation with China on pressing issues—domestic problems, different agendas, and bureaucracy—despite increasing relations**
**Bremmer, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - IR prof, Columbia and faculty member at Stanford’s Hoover Institution (9/1/9, Ian, “The Yin and Yang of U.S.-China Relations”, http://corporateforeignpolicy.com/china/us-china-relations-the-yin-and-yang) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American and Chinese officials said all the right things during this summer’s inaugural round of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__from words to work, they’re going to be pulling in different directions.__

===China Space Weaponization=== 

**1. China is developing space weapons to deploy against the US**
**IFPA, ‘9**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (Japan, “Space and US Security, A Net Assessment”, </span><span style="color: #3366bb; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the ground-based missile intercept of a Chinese satellite in January</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__to their targets during military operations would have their services curtailed or terminated.__

**2. Space wars make space unusable for future generations**
**O’Neill, ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Postgraduate Researcher at University and Webmaster at the Mars Foundation (3/24, Ian, “A Space War would be a Seriously Messy Business”, Universe Today, http://www.universetoday.com/2008/03/24/a-space-war-would-be-a-seriously-messy-business/) </span>

__What if there was a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pearl Harbour-like, </span>__pre-emptive strike against__
__AND__
__some form of orbital war, the debris produced may render space impassable.__

==Russia War Good== 
===1NC=== 
**1). A war with Russia is inevitable—winning is essential for US dominance**
**Telegraph, 07** [Adrian Blomfield, “Retired generals predict US-Russia war”] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/1557726/Retired-generals-predict-US-Russia-war.html]]</span>]
__Capitalising on the increasingly bellicose rhetoric in Moscow, a group of influential retired generals__
__AND__
__elimination of Russia as its principal obstacle to the full control of Eurasia."__

**2). American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse**
**Thayer, 6 -** professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.</span>
=Quantum Teleportation= 
==1NC Starvation== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Multiple alt causes the aff can’t solve</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Journal of Commerce, 12 ("Agriculture Trade a 'Risky Business'", April 16, Proquest) // NK</span>

Analysts and economists at the U.S. Department of Agriculture are full of
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">affected by the extreme climatic situation, and demand for imported food grew.</span>


**Won’t go to war over food**
**Chang 2/21**/11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gordon G Chang, Graduated Cornell Law School “Global Food Wars” http://blogs.forbes.com/gordonchang/2011/02/21/global-food-wars/ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In any event, food-price increases have apparently been factors in the unrest </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__of human innovation in free societies—and the efficiency of free markets.__ 

**Supply and demand means farmers will make more food – empirically true** 
**Zubrin 5/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 — Dr. Robert Zubrin Fellow with the Center for Security Policy B.A. in Mathematics from the University of Rochester (1974), and a masters degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics, a masters degree in Nuclear Engineering, and a Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering “WHY IT’S WRONG TO AGREE WITH THE MALTHUSIANS ABOUT ETHANOL”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.ilcorn.org/daily-update/182-why-it-rsquo-s-wrong-to-agree-with-the-malthusians-about-ethanol/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>__Lester Brown is wrong about the alleged famine-inducing potential__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">times as great as they were in 1960 (40 bushels per acre.) </span>

**Tech development solves**
**Thompson 5/13/11 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Robert L. Thompson is a senior fellow for The Chicago Council on Global Affairs and professor emeritus at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “Proving Malthus Wrong, Sustainable agriculture in 2050” http://scienceblogs.com/tomorrowstable/2011/05/proving_malthus_wrong_sustaina.php</span>
__Tools available today__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including plant breeding and biotechnology, </span>__can make presently unusable soils__ 
__AND__
__impede, continued agricultural research and adoption of new technologies around the world.__

**Empirically denied – human development solves**
**Wish 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vladish Wish, writer for Allianz (study of demographics) “Who’s Afraid of Thomas Malthus?” Global |01 October 2010by Valdis Wish http://knowledge.allianz.com/?224</span>
__None of the troubling predictions about__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> overpopulation and global </span>__starvation have come to pass__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the extent that India will soon be the world's most populous country. </span>

**Empirically, water doesn’t cause war**
**Lawfield 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Thomas Lawfield is an MA candidate at the University for Peace. Water Security: War or Peace? Thomas Lawfield May 03, 2010 http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=715</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reality, </span>__water does not cause war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The arguments presented above, although </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__overall capacity for technological and market driven solutions to water scarcity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[27]</span>


**Even if they win the war scenario, water isn’t the root cause – politics is**

**Lawfield 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Thomas Lawfield is an MA candidate at the University for Peace. Water Security: War or Peace? Thomas Lawfield May 03, 2010 http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=715</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__water wars are not caused by water__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__but__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rather an inability of </span>
__AND__
__many other triggers in a wider problem of social injustice and political discourses.__ 


**Cooperation solves all of your impacts – empirically true. Even without that, two thirds of water conflicts are verbal and the rest have small sanctions. There hasn’t been a real ‘water war’ for 4,500 years.**
**Wolf 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Aaron T. Wolf Ph.D. Department of Geosciences M.S. in water resources management. Oregon State University , Water, Conflict, Cooperation http://books.google.com/books?id=VS5Warw4G-UC&pg=PA261&lpg=PA261&dq=%22The+record+of+acute+conflict+over+international+water+resources+is+overwhelmed+by++the+record+of+cooperation%22&source=bl&ots=IVCrR7iQU4&sig=ecRh4bL6iujKgSl-AdaPEuS1guA&hl=en&ei=SCkOTvOQJ4bbsgbQnZjcDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>
__There is some room for optimism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, though, notably </span>__in the global community's record__ 
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">access to sufficient quantities of water at sufficient quality for their well being. </span>

**Their evidence can’t explain why water has led to cooperation – it has deescalated Arab-Isreali and Indo-Pak conflict** 
**Wolf 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Aaron T. Wolf Ph.D. Department of Geosciences M.S. in water resources management. HEALING THE ENLIGHTENMENT RIFT: RATIONALITY, SPIRITUALITY AND SHARED WATERS http://www.transboundarywaters.orst.edu/publications/abst_docs/Wolf-Healing%20the%20Enlightenment%20Rift%2008%20FINAL.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While press reports of international waters often focus on conflict, </span>__there are encouraging stories__ 
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not an elixir that drives enemies to craft functioning and resilient institutional arrangements. </span>

**Extinction comes first. Role of the ballot is to maximize the number of lives saved— Ethics are a constructed falsity.** 
**Bok, 1988** 
[Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative: 
AND
even__killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.__

==1NC Coop== 
**SQUO solves science diplomacy – new appointments and funding** 
**Johnson ’10** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jenny, “USAID appointment boosts science diplomacy focus”, April 8, http://scidev.net/en/news/usaid-appointment-boosts-science-diplomacy-focus.html</span>

**__The US government's international development agency is stepping up its focus on science and technology__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"meet U.S. foreign policy objectives and support Presidential initiatives". </span>

**---Clinton’s speech proves** 
**Turekian 10** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vaughan C., Chief international officer, AAAS, Washington, DC. Medical News Today, 21 July. http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/195393.php) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>**__Innovation, science [and] tech__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nology </span>**__must__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">again </span>**__be__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">come </span>**__fundamental components of how__** 
**__AND__**
**__"that encourage more people to put their own intellectual capital to work__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Quantum Security</span>**== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No chance cyber attacks could interfere with nuclear weapons</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green, ‘2</span>**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joshua, an editor of The Washington Monthly, "The Myth of Cyberterrorism," November, 2002, <online> http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2001/0211.green.html]</span>

__When__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ordinary </span>__people imagine cyberterrorism, they__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tend to </span>__think__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> along </span>__Hollywood plot lines__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as PDAs, BlackBerrys, and even wireless or infrared copiers and faxes. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our evidence – media and tech companies inflate the cyberterrorist threat</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weimann ‘4</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Gabriel, Senior Fellow @ US Institute of Peace and Prof. Comm. @ U. Haifa, Special Report #119, “Cyberterrorism: How Real Is the Threat?”, http://www.usip.org/pubs/specialreports/sr119.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It seems fair to say that </span>**__the__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> current </span>**__threat posed by cyberterrorism has been exaggerated__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cyberterrorism,” which has confused the public and given rise to countless myths.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security gains outstrip terrorist abilities</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harper, ‘9</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> - Director of Information Policy Studies, Cato Institute (Jim, Testimony before the Subcommittee on Technology & Innovation Committee on Science and Technology United States House of Representatives “Assessing Cybersecurity Activities at NIST and DHS,” 6/25, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-jh-20090625.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Take cyberterrorism. </span>**__With communications networks, computing infrastructure, and data stores under regular__** 

**__AND__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to deny the importance of preventing the failure of infrastructure, of course.</span>

=Bering Strait= 
==1NC Integration== 
**Global integration will never happen—their author**
**Singularity Hub, 11** (Singularity Hub, 9/15/11, “This Ain’t Your Ancestors’ Ice Bridge – Russia To Build Tunnel Across Bering Strait,” Sep 15, http://singularityhub.com/2011/09/15/this-aint-your-ancestors-ice-bridge-%E2%80%93-russia-to-build-tunnel-across-bering-strait/)//EM//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">then there’s </span>the new rail<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that will have to be built </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the US </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is for certain, those Russians sure aren’t afraid to think big.</span>//

//**Terrorist attacks take out the aff**//
//**Shepherd, 6** (William Shepherd, qualifications are unimportant because this advantage is so ludicrous, 5/9/6, “Global Electricity Grid”, [[http://climate.blog.co.uk/|Shepherd on Climate]], [[http://climate.blog.co.uk/2006/05/09/the_global_electricty_grid~786943/)//EM]]//
//__F<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">uller argued</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">electrical energy integration</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the night and day regions of the Earth </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but for the profits of the pipe owners and the energy commodity monopolisers. </span>//

//**Solar storms will take out the grid**//
//**Derbyshire 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]])</span>//EM

__T<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">he world is </span>overdue a ferocious 'space storm'<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that could</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> knock out communications satellites, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
the most active period<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of its</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 to 12-year natural </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cycle</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**No impact to biodiversity—the impact is over-hyped.**
**Doremus, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Holly Doremus, 2000, Professor of Law at UC Davis Washington & Lee Law Review, Winter 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, Lexis)//EM</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In recent years, this discourse </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">frequently </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has taken the form of the ecological horror </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a high proportion of species can be lost without precipitating a collapse.217 </span>

**Air pollution declining now**
**CSM, 12** (Christian Science Monitor, 4/25/12, “US air pollution hits 10-year low, report finds”, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2012/0425/US-air-pollution-hits-10-year-low-report-finds)//EM]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>air quality<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the US</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is at its </span>highest level in a decade<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rise to higher energy use and more miles driven</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the report says.</span>

**Birth rates are declining—solves overpopulation**
**Walsh, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/author/bryanrwalsh/|Bryan Walsh]], a senior writer at TIME 3/14/12, “Population Studies: Birthrates Are Declining. For the Earth — and a Lot of People — That’s Not a Bad Thing”, [[http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2012/03/14/population-studies-birth-rates-are-declining-for-the-earth-and-a-lot-of-people-thats-not-a-bad-thing/)//EM]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now what began in Japan is happening globally. As David Brooks wrote in his </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">we get older. Hopefully that holds true for the planet as well.</span>

**Technology solves overpopulation in the status quo**
<span class="fn">**Sommerfeld, 99** (Julia Sommerfeld</span><span class="attribution">, 10/12/99, </span>“Will technology save us from overpopulation?”, MSNBC, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3072069/ns/us_news-only_on_msnbc_com/t/will-technology-save-us-overpopulation/#.T_pF6VJdmOk)//EM|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3072069/ns/us_news-only_on_msnbc_com/t/will-technology-save-us-overpopulation/#.T_pF6VJdmOk)//EM]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This viewpoint, most vocally expressed by some optimistic economists and members of conservative think</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
in the works<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and fuel efficiency has already drastically improved in recent years.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Biodiversity is bad – it makes ecosystems less stable and more prone to collapse – simple systems are more stable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Heath, 99 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Jim Heath - Australian Orchid Council Inc., 1999, Orchids Australia, “WHY SAVE ORCHIDS UNDER THREAT?,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, CM)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Some people say </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">we can’t afford to lose any species, no matter what species </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">add diversity, and </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">that added diversity makes the biological world more stable</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Biodiversity makes ecosystems less stable and more susceptible to collapse – increased biodiversity prevents resiliency and collapses the system</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Naeem, 02 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Shahid Naeem - Director of Science at Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERC), Professor and Chair of Columbia University Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, 07 March 2002, Nature Magazine, “Biodiversity: Biodiversity equals instability?,” pg. 23, CM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Pfisterer and Schmid [3] studied biomass production in a combinatorial plant-diversity </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">by the camp that disagrees with the idea that biodiversity leads to stability. </span>


==1NC Far East== 

**The Chinese are not overrunning the far east—the aff is based on flawed statistics**
**Zagorodnov and Pushkarev, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ([[http://rbth.ru/author/Artem%20Zagorodnov|Artem Zagorodnov]], a staff writer, interview with Sergei Pushkarev, the head of the Vladivostok regional branch of the Federal Migration Service, 4/28/12, “Is Russia's Far East overcrowded by Chinese immigrants?”, [[http://rbth.ru/articles/2012/04/27/is_russias_far_east_overcrowded_by_chinese_immigrants_15432.html]])//EM</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One of the most common </span>myths<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Moscow </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is </span>that R<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ussia’s </span>F<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ar </span>E<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ast is </span>overrun
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">only talking about setting up these centers for foreigners coming to work here.</span>

**Russian economy is resilient despite the 08 financial crisis**
**Heilprin 11** – AP Report
(John, “Putin says Russia economy recovering, still below pre-global financial crisis level” June 15, 2011 http://www.startribune.com/world/123913759.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">GENEVA - Russia's economy is recovering, but remains well below the level it was </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">young mothers, disabled workers and people with health problems as it recovers. </span>

**Russian economy is able to rebound – several reasons**
**Aslund 10**- Senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics
(Anders, November 25, 2010 10 “Reasons Why the Russian Economy Will Recover” http://www.piie.com/publications/opeds/oped.cfm?ResearchID=1712)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span>__the energy curse__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is well understood, it </span>__tends to be over-emphasized__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">crystal clear as in 1985, when the Soviet elite opted for change. </span>
=NIB= 
==1NC Economy== 
**Economic Recovery now**
<span class="Heading4Char">Rosenberg 10/25</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> YUVAL ROSENBERG, The Fiscal Times, "Are You Better Off? More Americans Say Yes" www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/10/25/Are-You-Better-Off-More-Americans-Say-Yes.aspx#page1</span>
In an encouraging sign about the //tenuous economic recovery//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – and a potentially promising one </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">percent said they were worse off than they had been the previous year.</span>

**American infrastructure is better now– much better than pessimists predict**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gobry, 12</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Founder of Noosphere, a new market research firm, worked at Business Insider where he co-created GI Intelligence, the company’s market research service. Business and economics columnist at Atlantico and a lecturer at HEG Paris business school, SeedCamp, and Le Camping (Pascal-Emmanuel, 7/26/12, “Why The Haters Are Wrong And American Infrastructure Is Actually Pretty Great,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/pascalemmanuelgobry/2012/07/26/why-the-haters-are-wrong-and-american-infrastructure-is-actually-pretty-good/2/)//SL//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Well, </span>__it doesn’t seem to me that it’s impossible to ship some sort of__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">at least adressed in the debate, which they don’t seem to be.</span>//

//**Turn—No effect on jobs and generates a net negative effect – tradeoffs between regions.**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wachs 11</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Martin, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering and City and Regional Planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and former Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies and of the University of California Transportation Center. He is also former Chair of the Department of Urban Planning at UCLA. He is currently a Senior Research Associate at the RAND Corporation., “Transportation, Jobs, and Economic Growth”, [[http://www.uctc.net/access/38/access38_transportation_growth.shtml]]</span>)//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By building an effective transportation network, government transportation spending draws jobs to those industries </span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Seattle or Oakland, given that shipping is a highly competitive economic sector.</span>//


//**And, no immediate effect**//
//**Alessi ‘11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Council on Foreign Relation Christopher Alessi reports and writes on global economics for CFR.org. Previously, he worked as a London-based correspondent for Institutional Investor magazine. “Banking on U.S. Infrastructure Revival” 9/8. http://www.cfr.org/economics/banking-us-infrastructure-revival/p25782)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Experts remain divided, too, using historical precedent to bolster competing arguments. The </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">bank would </span>face<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>same bureaucratic conditions that rendered the 2008 stimulus ineffective<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**U.S. isn’t key to the global economy**//
//**Kohn 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD in economics from Michigan, Chairman of the Committee on the Global Financial System, Vice Chairman of the Fed(Donald, speech at the International Research Forum on Monetary Policy in Frankfurt, “Global Economic Integration and Decoupling”, http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/kohn20080626a.htm, WEA)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What about our more recent experience? </span>__During the first three quarters of 2007,__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">prices of emerging market equities rebounded more substantially than those of industrial countries.</span>//

//**Economic crisis won’t cause war**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Barnett 9</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC (Thomas, The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis, 25 August 2009, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx, AMiles)</span>//

//__When the__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">global financial </span>__crisis struck__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">roughly a year ago, </span>__the blogosphere was ablaze__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">great </span>__resilience of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> America's post-World War II international </span>__liberal__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">trade </span>__order__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>//


//**93 crises prove** **no war**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Miller ‘00</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Do wars spring from**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>//

//**Alt Causes**//
//**A and B. Europe and fiscal cliff**//
//**Liberto 7/25**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - (Jennifer, senior writer for @CNNMoney in Washington, “Geithner: Europe threatens U.S. economy,” http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/25/news/economy/geithner/index.htm)</span>//aberg

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON (CNNMoney) -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>//biggest threat// to the U.S. economy
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">early warning signals that the British bank Barclays was fixing the Libor rate.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Geithner didn't mention the Libor scandal in his opening statement.</span>


**C. China— discourages business investment— turns jobs internal link**
**Morici, 6/4** --- economist and professor at the Smith School of Business, University of Maryland (Peter, 6/4/2012, “Depressed by a US jobs stalemate,” [[http://www.businessspectator.com.au/bs.nsf/Article/US-jobs-US-economic-recovery-US-unemployment-pd20120604-UWRHY?opendocument&src=rss]], JMP)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gains in manufacturing production have not instigated stronger improvements in employment largely, because so </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__but is quite vulnerable to shock waves from crises in European and Asia.__**


==1NC Competitiveness== 

**US Economy is already strongest in the world – Europe failing, and Warren Buffett proves**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Crippen, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Associated Press Staff Writer and Executive Producer for CNBC News (Alex, 7/12/12, “Warren Buffett: US Economic Growth Slowing, Europe Slipping 'Pretty Fast',” [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48159304/Warren_Buffett_US_Economic_Growth_Slowing_Europe_Slipping_Pretty_Fast)//SL]]</span>

__Warren Buffett__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> has </span>__changed his view on the U.S. economy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
//doing better than "virtually any other big economy" around the world//__.__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Competitiveness has no impact on the economy – empirics**</span>
**Krugman, 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, “Competitiveness: A Dangerous Obsession,” April 1994, Paul Krugman joined The New York Times in 1999 as a columnist on the Op-Ed Page and continues as professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University. At MIT he became the Ford International Professor of Economics. Mr. Krugman is the author or editor of 20 books and more than 200 papers in professional journals and edited volumes. His professional reputation rests largely on work in international trade and finance; he is one of the founders of the "new trade theory," a major rethinking of the theory of international trade. In recognition of that work, in 1991 the American Economic Association awarded him its John Bates Clark medal)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In fact, however, trying to </span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">define the competitiveness of a nation is </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">much </span>__
__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">90 percent an economy that produces goods and services for its own use.</span>__


**Mercantilism is declining and any that exists is restrained – solves the impact.**
**Calì 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– (Massimiliano, Research Associate at ODI, development economist, “Protectionism and the crisis: some good news,” Overseas Development Institute, November 2009, http://www.odi.org.uk/opinion/docs/5520.pdf)//aberg</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">One of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the most feared economic consequences of the</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> current global </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">downturn has been</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to take a protectionist stance in line with the rest of the world. </span>


**No US-China war**
<span class="Heading4Char">Ackerman 11</span> – Signal Magazine’s Editor in Chief (Robert, quoting Timothy Keating, former admiral, “War Between China, U.S. Not Likely,” Signal Scope, 5/10/11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afcea.org/signal/signalscape/index.php/2011/05/10/11510]]</span>)
__The United States and China are not likely to go to war with each other__
__AND__
__that process by remaining a powerful force in the region__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he added.</span>
=Icebreakers= 
==1NC Science== 
**No impact to science diplomacy or research — Doesn’t produce collective action –can’t solve problems like warming, conflict, or poverty**
**Dickson ’10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David Dickson, Director, SciDev.Net, news editor of Nature from 1993 to August 2001, and was the journal’s Washington correspondent from 1977 to 1982, “Science in diplomacy: “On tap but not on top”, June 28, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/2010/06/28/the-place-of-science-in-diplomacy-%E2%80%9Con-tap-but-not-on-top%E2%80%9D/]</span>

**__The__** __<span style="font-family: 'Franklin Gothic Heavy',sans-serif;">broadest gaps in understanding</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the potential of</span> **__scientific diplomacy lay in__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the third category</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">national ones. With all the caution that even this formulation still requires.</span>
=<span style="font-size: 23px; line-height: 34px;">Port Security</span>= 

==**1NC Terrorism**== 
**Too many technical barriers to terrorists dispersing bioweapons**

**Washington Post 04** - John Mintz, staff writer,“Technical Hurdles Separate Terrorists From Biowarfare [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A35011-2004Dec29.html]])//MSO

__In 2002, **a panel of biowarfare experts concluded**__ in a report co-published
AND
.D.) contained one gram of anthrax, or 1 trillion spores.

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">CES solves the impact— new detection methods and 46 billion dollars are already allocated</span>**
**McCarter 1/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7 January 2013, Mickey McCarter, HS Today, “CES Government Showcases Border And Port Security Technologies In Las Vegas,” http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/industry-news/single-article/ces-government-showcases-border-and-port-security-technologies-in-las-vegas/d4d5ef1377b04f38cf1a6ab29c55ccde.html, AZhang] </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The eighth-annual </span>CES<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Government technology conference in Las Vegas, Nev., </span>offers
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">off CES Government 2013 with a keynote on investing in US transportation infrastructure.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Err neg— Even if they have access to nuclear material, terrorists can’t build a nuclear device – even if they did, it’d be an awful one</span>**
|| <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mueller 7</span> – PhD in political science from UCLA, professor of political science at Ohio State University (John Mueller, “Reactions and Overreactions to Terrorism: The Atomic Obsession”, American Political Science Association, July 24, 2007, http://psweb.sbs.ohio-state.edu/faculty/jmueller/APSA2007.PDF)//MG
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is essential to note, however, that </span>making a bomb is an extraordinarily
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">first step. If you don't have that, you don't have anything. </span> ||


===1NR Terrorism=== 
**No risk of nuclear terrorism---**

**No attacks – al Qaeda is weak**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (John, Professor of Political Science – Ohio State University and Contributor – Foreign Affairs, “How Dangerous Are the Taliban?”, Foreign Affairs, April / May, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64932/john-mueller/how-dangerous-are-the-taliban)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, </span>al Qaeda has yet to establish a<span class="underline"> significant </span>presence in the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Carle notes, </span><span class="underline">and "</span>its capabilities are<span class="underline"> far </span>inferior to its desires<span class="underline">."</span>

**---Lack of interest**
**Mueller ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[John, Department of Political Science, Ohio State University, “THE ATOMIC TERRORIST?”, April 30, http://www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf]</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The degree to which al-Qaeda has pursued</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, or</span>__** even **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">has</span>__** much **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">interest </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**
nuke rumor and chatter and hype—seems to have no substance whatever.

**---Capacity**
**Mueller ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[John, Department of Political Science, Ohio State University, “THE ATOMIC TERRORIST?”, April 30, http://www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf]</span>
However, assuming the group, or one like it, actually would like to
AND
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">off</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> financial supporters</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, dividing the movement, and eliciting</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> major crackdowns</span>__**.52

**---Acquisition**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mueller ‘9</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[John, Department of Political Science, Ohio State University, “THE ATOMIC TERRORIST?”, April 30, http://www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus far </span><span class="underline">terrorist groups </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">seem to </span><span class="underline">have exhibited only limited desire and even less progress </span>
<span class="underline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-effective and accompanied with only tolerable side effects, are generally desirable.</span>

**Low probability**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> – Err aff/neg – their evidence misunderstands probability, even if there is a high chance terrorists could succeed at every step, there is a low chance of ultimate success </span>
**Levi ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Michael Levi, Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment at Council on Foreign Relations, 4-20-2007, “How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States?” http://www.cfr.org/publication/13097/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We should not, however, underestimate the odds of terrorist failure. There isn’t </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span><span class="underline">we shouldn’t be too quick to ignore small chances of terrorist failure.</span>

===1NR Bioterror D=== 
**Bioterror risk exaggerated – it’s a conspiracy to justify funding for counter-measures.**
**Leitenberg ‘06**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(MILTON LEITENBERG is a senior research scholar at the University of Maryland and is the author of "Assessing the Biological Weapons and Bioterrorism Threat." LA Times – Feb 17th – lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A pandemic flu outbreak of the kind the world witnessed in 1918-19 could </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
**__country has ever done so__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> -- even nations known to have trained terrorists.</span>


==**1NC Economy**== 
**Economic decline ends rivalries, resources are reallocated**
**Bennett and Nordstrom 2000**– department of political science at Penn State
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>


==1NC Sex Trafficking== 

**Feminist condemnation of prostitution legitimizes conservative values while ensuring their implementation in federal policy – this casts prostitutes as helpless and without agency – turns the case**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weitzer</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span> (Ronald, Professor of Sociology at George Washington University, “Moral Crusade Against Prostitution,” //Society// 43 (3), March-April, metapress, TH)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The crusade against prostitution has been waged by an alliance of the Christian right and</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">time women make their own choices is when they decide to leave prostitution.</span>

**Multiple alt causes to disease spread**
**Bower & Chalk, ‘3**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Jennifer Brower and Peter Chalk, Jennifer Brower is a science and technology policy analyst. Peter Chalk is a political scientist, “Vectors Without Borders The Spread of Global Pathogens Can Imperil Us All,” RAND, Summer 2003, http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/summer2003/vectors.html]</span>
**__In the latter half of the 20th century,__** **__almost 30 new human diseases were__**
**__AND__**
**__increase the likelihood that people will come into contact with__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potentially </span>**__fatal diseases.__**

=<span style="font-size: 23px; line-height: 34px;">Hillman</span>= 

==**1NC Hillman/Psyche**== 
**Their political ontology premised on the friend and enemy distinction guarantees that otherness itself invariably figures as threatening – attempts to manage and control disorder through strategic reason make extinction inevitable as the antagonism inherent in social life gets transfigured into escalating wars between states**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anthony </span>**Burke ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**,** senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, 07 [“Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This closed circle of existential and strategic reason generates a number of dangers. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) merges the existential and rationalistic conceptions of war into a theoretical unity.</span>

**Hillman’s psychologies reduces people to vampires**
**Winther 1999** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Psychology major from Sweden, Mats “Critique of James Hillman Archetypal </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__vampire. This dark figure is the horrendous shadow of Hillman's puer aeternus.__

**Hillman is a hack- his theory is based in racist assumptions, ignores that war is not inevitable, and refuses to act to solve specific instances of suffering.**
**Stuhr 8—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy and American Studies, and Chair, Department of Philosophy at Emory University(John J, “A Terrible Love of Hope”, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy New Series, Volume 22, Number 4, Project Muse, JB)</span>

__If concrete cases of love of hope and peace point toward__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and result from</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__gender and sexual orientation, disability and disease, human rights and environmental justice__

**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">The belief that war is natural is a justification; death inevitably leads to nihilism and no value to life.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Hedges</span>**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">06</span>**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, author, journalist and war correspondent, “War Is A Force That Give Us Meaning”, http://www.allsaints-pas.org/transcripts/Chris%20Hedges%203-4-06%20War%20is%20a%20Force%20That%20Gives%20Us%20Meaning.pdf, page 1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The vanquished know war. They see through the empty jingoism of those who</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">of the godlike power that comes with the license to kill with impunity.</span>__
==1NC Speed== 

**Speed of tech doesn’t ruin the political—Opposite is true**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grove ‘8</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jairus Victor Grove is a Ph.D. candidate at Johns Hopkins University in International Relations and Political Theory. His research focuses on the new materialities of politics and warfare. He studies the effects of new forms of warfare on soldiers and civilian populations in urban settings. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chapter 1: A Schmittian Century?: From Nuclear Leviathan to Nuclear-Sovereign-Assemblage – March 17, 2008 – http://becomingwar.blogspot.com/2008/03/chapter-1-schmittian-century-from.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Initially nuclear weapons seemed to solidify even complete the decisionistic model of sovereignty once and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">many levels the Nuclear-sovereign-assemblage can be engaged or reterritorialized. </span>

=<span style="font-size: 23px; line-height: 34px;">Space Ports</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">1NC ISS</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US won’t pull out of the space station.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mahoney, served as a spaceflight instructor at the Johnson Space Center and is now a freelance writer, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (March 29, Bob, “Prognosticating NASA’s future”, “The Space Review”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1594/1) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The fact that the International Space Station has been designated a national laboratory by Congress </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">such a scenario with our unique and paid-for orbiting research facility.</span>


**There’s a reason 25 different proposals exist to terminate the program – rising costs, repeated delays, downsizings, and management difficulties**
**NY Times 01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“A Space Station Out of Control,” Opinion and Editorial, 11/25/01, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Title:</span><span class="definition" style="font-size: 8pt;">A space station out of control, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/ps/i.do?&id=GALE%7CA81780253&v=2.1&u=lom_umichanna&it=r&p=STND&sw=w)</span>
__The international <span class="hithighlite">spacestation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- the centerpiece of the American manned </span><span class="hithighlite" style="font-size: 8pt;">space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program -- </span>__has__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of their own, and the initial modules are already up and functioning. </span>

**No unique scientific benefit from ISS**
**NY Times 01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“A Space Station Out of Control,” Opinion and Editorial, 11/25/01, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Title:</span><span class="definition" style="font-size: 8pt;">A space station out of control, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/ps/i.do?&id=GALE%7CA81780253&v=2.1&u=lom_umichanna&it=r&p=STND&sw=w)</span>

Nobody doubts that the station has been a great engineering achievement, demonstrating that astronauts
AND
unmanned platform for automated experiments that would be tended occasionally by visiting astronauts.

**Extremely low probabilities should count as zero—even if there’s some risk, policy decisions can’t be justified by vanishingly small probabilities**
**RESCHER 2003**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Nicholas, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, Sensible Decisions: Issues of Rational Decision in Personal Choice and Public Policy, p. 49-50)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On this issue </span>__there is a systemic disagreement between probabilists working on theory-oriented__
__AND__
__—it is no longer seen as something that presents a realistic prospect__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Empirics and studies are conclusive – resource wars don’t happen**
**Salehyan 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, aside from a few anecdotes, </span>__there is little systematic empirical evidence that__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">there is much more to armed conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters. </span>


**Immune systems prevent extinction from space disease**
Bruce **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moomaw</span>**, 6/4**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">/</span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>**, “Mars Invades Earth”, Space Daily, http://www.spacedaily.com/news/life-01p1.html
This is simply not correct. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">The whole point about the </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">immune systems of most </span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">by Earth organisms' immune systems</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> with which they would be unprepared to cope.</span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">1NC Leadership</span>== 

**Nationalism prevents any genuine cooperation over the ISS**
**Crooks 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">M.D. in Security Studies (Heather R., “Transatlantic Relations: The Role of Nationalism in Multinational Space Cooperation,” Naval Postgraduate School, June 2009, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada501117.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from the current space policy, nationalism can also be found in NASA projects</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">challenge is to understand the specific conditions under which it can be reduced successfully</span>

**Unilateral action on the ISS like the plan causes chaos and undermines cooperation**
**Aviation Week & Space Technology June 27**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2011 Cooperative Kerfuffle (Lexis Nexis) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite its status as a shining example of international cooperation, </span>__the International Space Station__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">«</span>__It was anarchy, let's be clear about it,» he said.__

**Primacy will be impossible to sustain – dollar, fiscal pressure, rising challengers, overstretch**
**Layne 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A&M's George H.W. Bush School of Government & Public Service. "[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/|Graceful decline: the end of Pax Americana]]". The American Conservative. May 2010. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/]]) AK</span>
__China's economy has been growing much more rapidly than the United States' over the last__
__AND__
__with these hard decisions, Americans will find themselves afflicted with **hegemony fatigue**.__

**Your authors are pessimists – empirical data proves retrenchment is more peaceful than the alternatives**
**MacDonald and Parent 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, **Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security** Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this article, we question the logic and evidence of the retrenchment pessimists. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">none of the declining powers that failed to retrench recovered their relative position.</span>

**Unipolar military dominance causes a high risk of nuclear war with Russia and China**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David P. </span>**Calleo, ‘3****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Currently director of the European Studies Program and //Professor @ Johns Hopkins// University. Taught at Brown, Yale and Columbia. //Member of the Council on Foreign Relations// and the International Institute for Strategic Studies, former research fellow at the University of Oxford. Past Rockefeller, Guggenheim and Fulbright fellow. Ph.D., Yale University. “Europe and America: Different Geopolitical Wavelengths,” Annual Foreign Policy Conference. Heinrich Böll Stiftung - November 13th, 2003, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">www.sais-jhu.edu/faculty/calleo/DGAP.doc</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
**__Military superiority is frequently vulnerable to__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what might be called </span>**__the “Law of Asymmetrical__**
**__AND__**
**__of unipolar hegemony – can easily carry a high risk of nuclear war.__**


=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Whiteness</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Exclusion Turn</span>== 

**The exclusion of Latinos, Asian Americans and Native Americans in the Black/White paradigm plays into white domination**
**Bowman 1- prof of law @MSU, JD from Duke**
(Kristi, Duke Law Journal “The New Face of School Desegregation,” http://www.law.duke.edu/shell/cite.pl?50+Duke+L.+J.+1751)

__White privilege is reinforced when racial and ethnic groups are conceptualized not as White,__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as distinct groups that continue to suffer different harms is easily within reach. </span>

**The conception of race through a black/white paradigm marginalizes other races, excluding them from relevant policy discussions**
**Perea 97- prof of law @ UF, visiting prof @ Harvard, leading scholar on race and the law**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Juan, “The Black/White Binary Paradigm of Race,” California Law Review//MGD)</span>

__Paradigms of race shape our understanding of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> race and our definition of </span>__racial problems.__
__AND__
__those that will not fit the box are often not seen at all.”__
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Racism</span>== 

**Plan cannot overcome all forms of racism.**
**Howard Winant. 2000. (American Sociologist, race theorist, and professor of Sociology at UCSB. “The World is a Ghetto: Race and Democracy Since World War II.” Pg 316)**

In this unresolved situation, __it is unlikely that attempts to address worldwide dilemmas of__
__AND__
democracy, or the emerging racial differentialism of the European Union __remains problematic__.

**Racism still exists- legal representation and death penalty.**
**The Washington Times. May 20, 2008. (Betsy Pisik, “U.N. Puts its scope on U.S. Racism; Rights violators run for cancel. LN)**

Previous __U.N. human rights rapporteurs in the__ **__U__****nited __S__tates** __have come to__
__AND__
__in the 6 1/2 years since the W__orld __T__rade __C__enter __attacks__.

==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Util Debate</span>== 

**All lives are infinitely valuable. The only ethical option is to maximize the number saved.**
David <span style="font-size: 16pt;">Cummisky</span>, Professor of Philosophy @ Bates College. <span style="font-size: 16pt;">1996</span>. “__Kantian Consequentialism.__” Pg. 131.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, even if one grants that saving two persons with dignity cannot outweigh and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__conclusion that the more persons with dignity who are saved, the better.__

**Extinction comes first. Role of the ballot is to maximize the number of lives saved— Ethics are a constructed falsity.**
**Bok, 1988**
[Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]

The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
even__killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.__

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Inland Waterways/Ports</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Inherency</span>== 

**Status quo solves— MAP-21 means Port deepening projects are being expedited now**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">White House 7-19</span>**
“We Can’t Wait: Obama Administration Announces 5 Major Port Projects to Be Expedited,” http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2012/07/19/we-can-t-wait-obama-administration-announces-5-major-port-projects-be-ex?utm_source=wh.gov&utm_medium=shorturl&utm_campaign=shorturl

Today, as part of its We Can’t Wait initiative, the Administration announced that
AND
complete within 3 years – much earlier than the over 10 year average.

==1NC Econ== 
**Economy is resilient and essentially recovered now**
**Robb 1/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[17 January 2013, Greg Robb, Market Pulse, “Geithner: U.S. economy close to full recovery,” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-us-economy-close-to-full-recovery-2013-01-17?link=MW_latest_news, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. economy is close to the</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and people should find comfort and some optimism in that," he said.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stimulus fails— Public investment particularly in infrastructure cause delays which result in negative economic effects </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Leeper, 10** - Department of Economics, Indiana University, research fellow @ NBER, (Eric M. “Government Investment and Fiscal Stimulus in the Short and Long Runs” March 31, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTMACRO/Resources/SusanLWYGovtInvestRevisionMay20.pdf)/AH|http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTMACRO/Resources/SusanLWYGovtInvestRevisionMay20.pdf)//AH]]</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The analysis shows that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">i</span>mplementation delays andexpected ﬁscal adjustments can hinder the beneﬁciale<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math';">ﬀ</span>ects
AND
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">of the ARRA, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may be partly attributable to implementation delays in government investment</span>

**They don’t solve congestion—unrealistic assumptions and the industry won’t use it**
<span class="Heading4Char">Schultz, 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Contributing Editor at Logistics Management Magazine and Transportation/Trucking/Railroad Consultant (John, “The Winner of 2007's </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Worst Idea of Transportation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? Hands-down, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it's Short-Sea Shipping</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”, Logistics Management Magazine, October 18, 2007, [[https://www.hightable.com/trucking/insight/the-winner-of-2007s-worst-idea-of-transportation-handsdown-its-shortsea-shipping-18054,)/chm|https://www.hightable.com/trucking/insight/the-winner-of-2007s-worst-idea-of-transportation-handsdown-its-shortsea-shipping-18054,)//chm]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is a movement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among a few politicians in Washington </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to try and revive the </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that short-sea shipping idea working for Arizonans, Ms. Peters?</span>

**93 crises prove** **no war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller ‘00</span> (Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Do wars spring from**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>


==**1NC Trade**== 
**Trade leadership is permanently damaged and they can’t overcome alt causes**
**Kim 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Policy Analyst in Heritage's Center for International Trade and Economics, master's degree in international trade and investment policy from the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University (4/12, Anthony, Heritage Foundation, “A trade war averted for now”, http://blog.heritage.org/2010/04/12/a-trade-war-averted-for-now/, WEA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, </span>__a trade war was__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> avoided. More precisely, it has been </span>__delayed__
__AND__
__without tangible action to re-establish America’s leadership in advancing free trade.__


**No impact to trade—**

**Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace**
**MARTIN, MAYER, AND THOENIG 2008 (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75)</span>

__Does globalization pacify international relations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? The “liberal” view in political science argues</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, even taking into account the increase in the number of sovereign states.</span>


**Zero risk of protectionist backsliding**
**Anderson 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – head of Asia-Pacific economics for UBS (8/17, Jonathan, Cajing, “Economist: Reality Check for Prophets of Protectionism”, http://english.caijing.com.cn/2009-08-17/110225722.html, WEA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the greatest fears among investors today is that the global economy will be</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">perhaps longer. But </span>__we don't think the real situation supports these fears.__

**Economic crisis won’t cause war**
**Barnett 9**—senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC (Thomas, The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis, 25 August 2009, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx, AMiles)

__When the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">global financial </span>__crisis struck__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">roughly a year ago, </span>__the blogosphere was ablaze__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">great </span>__resilience__ __of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> America's post-World War II international </span>__liberal__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">trade </span>__order__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1NC Soybeans== 
**Amazonian deforestation not linked to commercial growth and all time low-laundry list of reasons**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Butler, 2012</span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> May, Rhett A., Monga Bay, “Deforestation in the Amazon,” [[http://www.mongabay.com/brazil.html]], KHaze</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 2004 </span>__the rate of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon has fallen nearly 80 percent__
__AND__
__and emerging awareness of the values of ecosystem services__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> afforded by the Amazon. </span>
==**1NC Hegemony**== 
**Economic growth is not key to U.S mlitary Hegemony**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dymski 02- </span>[Post-Hegemonic U.S. Economic Hegemony: Minskian and Kaleckian Dynamics in the Neoliberal Era Gary A. Dymski*;[[http://economics.ucr.edu/papers/papers02/02-13.pdf]]]

Hegemony here means a nation’s ability to determine the terms and conditions on which cross
AND
the character and timing of U.S. cyclical fluctuations. 2.


=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Beneath the Neon</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Personal Politics Bad</span>== 

**Identity politics fail- lead to an ethics of suffering, alienates different identities, and abandons emancipatory politics**
**Brown 93- PhD in political philosophy from Princeton, prof at UC Berkeley**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wendy, “Wounded Attachments,” Political Theory, Vol. 21, No. 3 (Aug., 1993), pp. 390-410, JSTOR//MGD)//</span>

//__MANY HAVE ASKED HOW, given the totalizing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regulatory and "othering" </span>__characteristics of__//
//__AND__//
//__to give up these investments in the pursuit of an emancipatory democratic project?__//

//**Turn- claiming the political is personal heists social responsibility onto individuals- deflects guilt onto the victim**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Tobach 94- PhD in comparative psychology from NYU </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Ethel, “ . . . Personal is Political is Personal is Political . . .” Journal of Social Issues, Vol. 50. No. I , 1994. pp. 221-244</span>//MGD)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">If Hawkesworth (1987) is correct, and as it appears to me from</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">of developing a personal/political aspect to feminism in academia is needed. </span>__


**Personal politics fail- subject the person, rather than the ideology, to repression**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Tobach 94- PhD in comparative psychology from NYU </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Ethel, “ . . . Personal is Political is Personal is Political . . .” Journal of Social Issues, Vol. 50. No. I , 1994. pp. 221-244//MGD) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">I was </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">also </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">reminded of the slogan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> that integrated the individual and society. When</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">of espousing unpopular theories in a repressive, or potentially repressive, atmospher</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">e. </span>
==2NC Fascism Impact== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Personal politics allows masses to be led into fascism and dictatorship- caudillos prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fitzgibbon 57- former prof of political science at UCLA </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Russell, “The Party Potpourri in Latin America,” The Western Political Quarterly, Vol. 10, No. 1 (Mar., 1957), pp. 3-22//MGD) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In almost all </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">other</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> countries</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> - though it is always dangerous to gen- eralize </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Evita Per6n in Argentina, Saravia in Uruguay, and various others.16 </span>
=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Freight Rail</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Warming</span>== 

**Warming is natural**

**Bast and Taylor 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *CEO of the Heartland Institute, author of Rebuilding America’s Schools (1990), Why We Spend Too Much on Health Care (1992) Eco-Sanity: A Common-Sense Guide to Environmentalism (1994) Education & Capitalism (2003), Climate Change Reconsidered (2009), and The Patriot’s Toolbox (2010, rev. ed. 2011), **managing editor of Environment & Climate News, Senior Fellow for The Heartland Institute, bachelors degree from Dartmouth College and law degree from the Syracuse University College of Law, (Joseph and James, “Global Warming: Not a Crisis,” The Heartland Institute, 8/2/11, http://heartland.org/ideas/global-warming-not-crisis) //PC//**</span>

**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Natural or Man-Made? </span>The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC<span style="font-size: 8pt;">),</span>//**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">can explain more than a small amount of the climate change we witness.</span>//**



//Warming is takes FOREEEEEEEEVER— Newest models prove aerosols offset the effects of warming – discount IPCC data//

//Hoffman, 5/30<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doug L Hoffman, worked professionally as a mathematician, a computer programmer, an engineer, a computer salesman, a scientist, and a college professor. Dr. Hoffman earned his undergraduate degree, a BS in Applied Mathematics, from the Florida Institute of Technology. There he cut his teeth on computer models of heat flow and urban traffic simulations. After graduating, he performed hydro-acoustic work for the U.S. Navy in the Virgin Islands, where he first met Allen Simmons. Later projects included engineering work on the Carrier Automatic Landing System and cockpit field of view simulations, and environmental models for the Saudi Arabian government. He returned to academia in 1990, earning a Masters degree and a PhD in Computer Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. While there he did research in Molecular Dynamics Simulations and, as a member of the BioSCAN team, he helped develop and implement high-speed comparison methods for RNA, DNA, and protein sequences, work funded by the Human Genome Project. After joining the research faculty at UNC, he continued to pursue his thesis work, automated comparison of three dimensional protein molecules. Since 2000, he has been working in industry, serving as senior grid architect for a major information processing company, publishing several papers on modeling the performance of large scale grid computers. With a life long passion for education, he has also continued to teach as an adjunct Professor of Computer Science at Hendrix College and the University of Central Arkansas. “New Climate Models Fall Short,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://thegwpf.org/the-climate-record/5849-new-climate-models-fall-short.html%20Accessed%206/21/12|http://thegwpf.org/the-climate-record/5849-new-climate-models-fall-short.html Accessed 6/21/12]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BJM</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The IPCC is working up to releasing pieces of its next climate report, starting</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">why they differ,” says Bony. Did someone say “settled science?”</span>**//



**//No extinction//**

//**NIPCC 11** (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html)KG//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper published in Systematics and Biodiversity, Willis et al. (2010</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//the fossil record indicates remarkable biotic resilience to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."//


**//Agricultural crises are creating global food shortages – that kills a billion people – increased CO2 is key to solve//**
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Idso’s, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sherwood PhD and former research physicist for the Department of Agriculture, Keith PhD Botany, Craig PhD Geography, 6/6/2011, “Meeting the Food Needs of a Growing World Population”, http://www.co2science.org/articles/V14/N27/EDIT.php] DHirsch</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Parry and Hawkesford (2010) introduce their study of the global problem by noting</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with more people "hungrier now than at the start of the millennium."</span>//


**//US CO2 Relatively Stagnant – Other Countries are the Bulk//**
//**Taylor, 2k12** (James Taylor, senior fellow for environment policy at The Heartland Institute and managing editor of Environment & Climate News//, “U.S. Carbon Dioxide Emissions Remain Below 2000 Levels” January 24 2012, Online @// <span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://news.heartland.org/newspaper-article/2012/01/24/us-carbon-dioxide-emissions-remain-below-2000-levels]]</span> ht)

U.S. carbon dioxide emissions remain below 2000 levels and are likely to
AND**
dramatic, economy-killing carbon dioxide restrictions, has been rendered moot.

==**1NC Econ**== 
**Economy is resilient and essentially recovered now**
**Robb 1/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[17 January 2013, Greg Robb, Market Pulse, “Geithner: U.S. economy close to full recovery,” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-us-economy-close-to-full-recovery-2013-01-17?link=MW_latest_news, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. economy is close to the</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and people should find comfort and some optimism in that," he said.</span>


**No risk of economic collapse or loss of competitiveness**
**Koba 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">9/12, *Mark Koba is a Senior Editor at CNBC.com, “American Economic Decline? Exaggerated,” http://www.cnbc.com/id/44271677/American_Economic_Decline_Exaggerated, AJ</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With a recent ratings downgrade, chronic unemployment, a growing budget deficit and a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">percent increase in GDP is more than the entire GDP of many countries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>

**93 crises prove** **no war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Miller ‘00</span> (Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Do wars spring from**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>


**Economic growth is not key to U.S mlitary Hegemony**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dymski 02- </span>[Post-Hegemonic U.S. Economic Hegemony: Minskian and Kaleckian Dynamics in the Neoliberal Era Gary A. Dymski*;<span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://economics.ucr.edu/papers/papers02/02-13.pdf]]</span>]

Hegemony here means a nation’s ability to determine the terms and conditions on which cross
AND
the character and timing of U.S. cyclical fluctuations. 2.


**They don’t solve congestion—it’s inevitable**
**Downs, PhD, 2004**—Chairman, Real Estate Research Corporation Senior Analyst, RAND Corporation
Faculty Member, University of Chicago (Anthony, “Why Trafﬁc Congestion Is Here to Stay. . . and Will Get Worse” Access Number 25, Fall 2004, <span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf)/chm|http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf)//chm]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EVERYONE HATES TRAFFIC </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CONGESTION</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But despite all attempted remedies, it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">keeps getting</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> worse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">because it is going to be your commuting companion for the foreseeable future.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">MagLev Rail</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC STEM**</span>== 

**No risk of economic collapse or loss of competitiveness**
**Koba 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">9/12, *Mark Koba is a Senior Editor at CNBC.com, “American Economic Decline? Exaggerated,” http://www.cnbc.com/id/44271677/American_Economic_Decline_Exaggerated, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With a recent ratings downgrade, chronic unemployment, a growing budget deficit and a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">percent increase in GDP is more than the entire GDP of many countries</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**93 crises prove** **no war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller ‘00</span> (Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Do wars spring from**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>

**Multiple alt causes---economic collapse is inevitable**
**NY Times 6/19** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2012, “Mid-Year Outlook from BlackRock’s Russ Koesterich: Turmoil in Europe, Prospect of “Fiscal Cliff” in U.S. Will Keep Investors on “Rocky Road” for Rest of 2012,” http://markets.on.nytimes.com/research/stocks/news/press_release.asp?docTag=201206190800BIZWIRE_USPRXBW5584&feedID=600&press_symbol=62690, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Jun. 19, 2012-- </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In 2012’s second half, **investors will face “a rocky road”** compared with the year’s first few months, with the **potential “fiscal cliff” in the U.S. as well as Europe’s ongoing turmoil both posing risk to a still weak global recovery**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,’</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">according to Russ Koesterich, Global Chief Investment Strategist for BlackRock’s (NYSE:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as an opportunity to add to longer-term positions in emerging markets.”</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">1NC Warming</span>== 
**Warming is natural**
**Bast and Taylor 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *CEO of the Heartland Institute, author of Rebuilding America’s Schools (1990), Why We Spend Too Much on Health Care (1992) Eco-Sanity: A Common-Sense Guide to Environmentalism (1994) Education & Capitalism (2003), Climate Change Reconsidered (2009), and The Patriot’s Toolbox (2010, rev. ed. 2011), **managing editor of Environment & Climate News, Senior Fellow for The Heartland Institute, bachelors degree from Dartmouth College and law degree from the Syracuse University College of Law, (Joseph and James, “Global Warming: Not a Crisis,” The Heartland Institute, 8/2/11, http://heartland.org/ideas/global-warming-not-crisis) //PC**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Natural or Man-Made? </span>__The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">),</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">can explain more than a small amount of the climate change we witness.</span>**

**No extinction**
**NIPCC 11**** (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. <span style="color: black;">http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html)KG</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper published in Systematics and Biodiversity, Willis et al. (2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__the fossil record indicates remarkable biotic resilience to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."__
===<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NR Warming**</span>=== 

**No warming now, alt causes, and its cyclical**
**Happer** 3/27/**12** – professor of physics at Princeton (William, “Global Warming Models are Wrong Again” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304636404577291352882984274.html]], PZ)
__What is happening to global temperatures in reality? The answer is: almost nothing__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">temperatures—Feynman has told us what conclusions to draw about the theory.</span>

**Alt Causes – cosmic rays**
**Spencer, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Roy Spencer, principal research scientist for University of Alabama in Huntsville. In the past, he has served as Senior Scientist for Climate Studies at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, where here he directed research into the development and application of satellite passive microwave remote sensing techniques for measuring global temperature, water vapor, and precipitation. He currently is the U.S. Science Team Leader for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR-E) on NASA's Aqua satellite. Dr. Spencer is the recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement and the American Meteorological Society's Special Award for his satellite-based temperature monitoring work. He is the author of numerous scientific articles that have appeared in Science, Nature, Journal of Climate, Monthly Weather Review, Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology, Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology, Remote Sensing Reviews, Advances in Space Research, and Climatic Change. “Indirect Solar Forcing of Climate by Galactic Cosmic Rays: An Observational Estimate,” [[http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=950]] Accessed 6/20/12 BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Note: GCR = galactic cosmic ray</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SUMMARY What the above three plots show is that </span>__for a 1,000 count__
__AND__
__have a profound impact on future projections of human-caused global warming.__

**More ev – empirics disprove CO2 causes warming**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also answers sulfur emissions caused cooling</span>
**Easterbrook 2011 – geology professor emeritus at Western Washington University (Don, Evidence Based Climate Science, [[http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=%22warming%22+%22natural+causes%22&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q|http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq="warming"+"natural+causes"&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q]], , PZ)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The news media has bombarded the public with countless pictures of melting glaciers as proof</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**__. The cause had to be something other than__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either </span>__CO2__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or sulFur.</span>**

**CO2 emissions not main cause of warming, water vapor is**
**Easterbrook 2011**** – geology professor emeritus at Western Washington University (Don, Evidence Based Climate Science, [[http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=%22warming%22+%22natural+causes%22&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q|http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq="warming"+"natural+causes"&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q]], , PZ)
__No tangible, physical evidence exists that proves a cause-and-effect relation__
__AND__
__, showing that climatic warming caused CO2 to rise, not vice versa.__

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Space Elevators</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Air Pollution**</span>== 
**Too many alt causes to solve – can’t touch the quals of this card**
**Brook et al, 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert D., MD, Associate Professor at the Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan *AND Barry A. Franklin, PhD, Director of the Cardiac Rehabilitation Program and Exercise Laboratories, William Beaumont Hospital, Professor of Physiology, Wayne State University, School of Medicine, *AND Wayne Cascio, MD, Former Director of Cardiovascular Research at the Center for Environmental Medicine, Asthma and Lung Biology at UNC Chapel Hill, Former Medical Director of the Clinical Electrocardiography Laboratory at the University of North Carolina Hospitals, *AND Yuling Hong, MD, PhD, Associate Director for Science, Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, National Institutes of Health, *AND George Howard, PhD, Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Alabama–Birmingham, *AND Michael Lipsett, MD, Chief of the Environmental Health Investigations Branch, California Department of Public Health, *AND Russell Luepker, MD, Mayo Professor of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, *AND Murray Mittleman, MD, ScD, Associate Professor in the Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Harvard University, *AND Jonathan Samet, MD, founding director of the USC Institute for Global Health, Flora L. Thornton Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine of the Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, *AND Sidney C. Smith Jr, MD, professor of medicine and director of the Academic Center for Cardiovascular Disease, University of North Carolina, *AND Ira Tager, MD, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology, University of California Berkeley, June 1, 2004, “Air Pollution and Cardiovascular Disease,” American Heart Association, http://circ.ahajournals.org/content/109/21/2655.full, Hensel)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A brief description of several individual air pollutants is provided first for background. A</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).</span>

**Air pollution’s inevitable – other countries’ pollution cancels out any improvement we make**
**Watson, 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Traci – USA Today staff writer, citing David Parrish, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, citing Daniel Jacob, Vasco McCoy Family Professor of Atmospheric Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Center for the Environment, Harvard University, citing David Streets, environmental scientist at Argonne National Laboratory, citing Daniel Jaffe, Professor of Atmospheric and Environmental Chemistry at the University of Washington-Bothell, March 14, 2005, “Air pollution from other countries drifts into USA,” USA Today, http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2005-03-13-pollution-_x.htm, Hensel)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Americans drive imported cars, wear imported clothes and chug imported beers. Now scientists</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__bird's-eye view of clouds of pollution drifting from continent to continent__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**No Health Risk**
**Schwartz, 03** (Joel, adjunct scholar at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, April 2003, “Particulate Air Pollution: Weighing the Risks,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Joel%20Schwartz%20-%20Particulate%20Air%20Pollution%20Weighing%20the%20Risks.pdf, Hensel)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, both the Bush Administration and congressional Democrats have proposed </span>__sweeping new measures to__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__the standard__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will be expensive, but </span>__is unlikely to improve public health__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>