[[toc]]
=Wheat Rust CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**CP TEXT: The United States federal government should increase its agricultural research for the purpose of developing genetically-modified wheat-rust resistant wheat.**
**We are on the verge of a catastrophic global food crisis because of wheat rust. That’s the key crop in every country.**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">EFS 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(“Ug99: Will Wheat Rust Cause A Catastrophic Global Famine?”, Emergency Food Supply, http://theemergencyfoodsupply.com/archives/ug99-will-wheat-rust-cause-a-catastrophic-global-famine)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> Will a wheat rust that the vast majority of Americans have never heard of </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">magazine has now declared that we are in "a global food crisis".</span>__
**The counterplan solves for agriculture. New genetically modified wheat will overcome global wheat rust including Ug99, stem, and yellow rust.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">BGRI ‘11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Borlaug Global Rust Initiative led by Cornell University'Super varieties' of wheat expected to boost yields and block deadly threat to food security. ScienceDaily. from http://www.sciencedaily.com­ /releases/2011/06/110609202336.htm, AZhang]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Five years after the launch of a global effort to protect the world's most important </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">locally-adapted varieties that had resistance to both yellow and stem rust.</span>__
==**2NC Solvency**== 
**AND, Wheat rust epidemic will collapse global production by 100 percent.**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">Kanj 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Safaa, correspondent for Agence France Presse, “Stripe rust threat to wheat worse than predicted”, May 26th, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scidev.net/en/news/stripe-rust-threat-to-wheat-worse-than-predicted.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">An epidemic caused by a new strain of wheat fungus could cause billions of dollars </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10.5pt;">in these regions, which already suffer from production constraints caused by drought.</span>__

**Agricultural Research is key to solving for Asia wheat rust resistance and the ONLY solution for long-term rust control**
Singh et. al. 04 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ravi P. Harindra M. William1, Julio Huerta-Espino2 and Garry Rosewarne1 “Wheat Rust in Asia: Meeting the Challenges with Old and New Technologies” </span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">© 2004 "New directions for a diverse planet". Proceedings of the 4th International Crop Science Congress. AZhang)</span>

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">Rust diseases of wheat can be successfully controlled in Asia through a combination of strategies</span>__
__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">their derivatives</span>____<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">is an attractive strategy for achieving long-term rust control.</span>__

==**2NC Ethics**== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">WE HAVE AN ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY TO ENSURE THE PRODUCTION AND RESEARCH OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Albert Weale **Cosmos** October 20**08**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“GM crops: solution to world food crisis?” Albert Weale is chair of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics and Professor of Government at the University of Essex, United Kingdom available online http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/2269/gm-crops-solution-world-food-crisis?page=0,0]cdm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE WORLD BANK recently estimated that a doubling of food prices over the last three </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">developing countries over the past five years, compared to just doubling worldwide.</span>

==**Politics NB**== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Funding for agricultural research is popular in Congress</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">HAGSTROM</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **4/11/11** [Jerry, prize-winning agricultural journalist, book author and commentator, graduate of the University of Denver, he has been a Loeb Fellow at Harvard University and a research fellow at the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center at Columbia University. [[http://hagstromreport.com/news_files/041111_merrigan.html]], AZhang]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Members of Congress may have ended the practice of earmarking specific agricultural research and construction </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">soybeans. Officials said the Arboretum’s most recent research discoveries and development include: </span>


=ATS CP= 
==1NC Shell== 

**Text: The United States federal government should initiate necessary reforms to the Antarctic Treaty System as per our Triggs evidence.**

**The following reforms solve the whole aff**
**Triggs ‘11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gillian Triggs, Professor of Law @ Sydney, “The Antarctic Treaty System: A Model of Legal Creativity and Cooperation,” http://www.atsummit50.org/media/book-8.pdf, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">New thinking and initiatives are required to strengthen the system. The </span>ATS is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">fairly or otherwise,</span> seen <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by many </span>as <span style="font-size: 8pt;">insular and nontransparent,</span> incapable of enforcing its measures, and slow to respond<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to contemporary threats. What are the </span>solutions<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• It would be wise to make modest suggestions for reform that do not include </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">common interests and values that are more comprehensive those of traditional national sovereignty.</span>
=State PIC= 
==1NC Shell== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By locating their imagination in the state, the 1ac relocates violence outside of the self. The end point is stasis and atrocity. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">KAPPELER 1995</span>__**[Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 1-4]

What is striking is that the __violence__ which is talked about __is always the violence__
__AND__
is am unmistakable signal to society that racist violence does indeed 'pay off'.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**The result is terminal failure. Localized politics is key.** </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">KAPPELER 1995</span>__**[Susanne Kappeler, //The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior,// pg 4-5]

__If we__ nevertheless continue to __explain violence by its 'circumstances' and attempt to counter it__
__AND__
__will, including our own, at the centre of political reflection.''__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their advocacy internalizes powerlessness and effaces agency. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colebrook 2 </span>**
(Claire, Understanding Deleuze, Pg. xxxviii)

Human freedom became //the// problem. __If human beings are free, does this mean__
__AND__
__itself political; it produces relations, effects, and organises our bodies.__
=ITAR CP= 
==1NC Shell== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Text: The United States federal government should lift ITAR restrictions.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Solves the case - ITAR inhibits international US cooperation in space</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Sabathier and</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Bander 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Vincent Sabathier</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is senior fellow and director and Ashley Bander program manager of Human Space Exploration Initiatives at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications.</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> “Foreign Policy Opportunities for NASA ” 3/9, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://csis.org/publication/foreign-policy-opportunities-nasa]]</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

However, a new direction and a bigger budget might not suffice without some major
AND
an extraordinarily valuable foreign policy tool—from exercising smart power through space.

==2NC Solves Space Industry== 

**ITAR drives out small companies and decimates the U.S. space industry.**
**Brown****2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter J.— Asia Times writer on satellite issues, “US firms tired of being shut out,” //The Asia Times//, December 4th, 2006 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/JL04Ad01.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">American </span>companies <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">involved in the export of satellites and related products and services </span>are tired
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**to procure equipment that requires US ITAR licensing**",</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> according to the report.</span>

==2NC Solves Spaceflight== 

**ITAR prevents commercial human spaceflight—vague wording means it is excessively monitored**
**Sundahl 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Sundahl is the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and an Associate Professor of Law at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law. Professor Sundahl was a member of the UNIDROIT working group charged with drafting the Space Assets Protocol to the Cape Town Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment. He is also Assistant Executive Secretary of the International Institute of Space Law. Professor Sundahl received his B.A. from UCLA and his J.D. from the University of California. March 2010. “Space Tourism and Export Controls: A Prayer for Relief.” http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1000&context=mark_sundahl)</span>

__Despite this bright outlook for commercial human spaceflight, the industry faces several significant challenges__
__AND__
__of technical data__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which will be addressed further in the following section. </span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Schools CP (Racism)</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Shell</span>== 

**Text: The United States federal government should**
— **overrule Wessman v. Gittens (1998)**
— **guarantee every student has a neighborhood school and expand the size of school attendance zones**
— **expand magnet and charter school investment**
— **Overturn Miliken v. Bradley**

**Offering choice through bussing desegregates schools and overturning miliken solves**
**Black, '09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Derek, Howard University Associate Law Professor, Spring 2009 Derek, "ARTICLE: IN DEFENSE OF VOLUNTARY DESEGREGATION: ALL THINGS ARE NOT EQUAL," 44 Wake Forest L. Rev. 107, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Unfortunately</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**offering choice and improving school quality and safety alone are often insufficient to**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**AND**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">preference school primarily occurs when the first-preference school 92 is oversubscribed.</span>

**Wessman v. Gittens restricted policies to create diversity in schools— overrule is key; magnet and charter schools are now the only option— Only way to solve underlying racism**
**Reilly 2k** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Elizabeth [associate dean, prof of law - Akron Law School], Education and the Constitution: Shaping Each Other & the Next Century, 34 Akron L. Rev. 1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, __the **restriction of race-conscious remedies** to create racial diversity and balance__</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">) (endorsing a magnet school as a good way to begin desegregation). </span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Tam Lun Asian Counteradvocacy</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Shell</span>== 

**We advocate an investment in the Asian-American railroad experience**

**In Chickencoop Chinaman, The Lone Ranger offers the protagonist, Tam Lum, and his childhood friend, Blackjap Kenji, a reward for rejecting the railroad, the material evidence of Asian American history:**

**"You don't hear no train, China boys. Hear no evil, ya hear me? China boys, you be legendary obeyers of the law, legendary humble, legendary passive. Thank me now and I'll let ya get back to Chinatown preservin your culture!"**

**The investment in the Asian-American railroad experience counters the violence of Western dominance that geographically restricts Asian-Americans into the vicious cycle of institutional stereotyping and oppression as a mythical model minority. Our use of the railroad as a metaphor for a new identity politics reclaims the forgotten historical experience of Asian-Americans silenced by white supremacy.**

**Goshert 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Goshert, Professor of English at Utah Valley University, B.A.and M.A. from Sonoma State University Ph.D. in English from Purdue University“ ‘Frank Chin Is Not A Part of This Class!’ Thinking at the Limits of Asian American Literature” by John Goshert Purdue University, Jouvert Volume 4, Issue 3, May, 2000, online, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://english.chass.ncsu.edu/jouvert/v4i3/gosher.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

__Taking my cue from Li's essay, I will revisit the state of Asian American__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of his grandmother's constant listening for the immigrant-built locomotive Iron Moonhunter.</span>


==**2NC Solvency**== 
**Investment in the historical experience of Asian-American railroad narratives is critical to the deconstruction of institutional structures that stereotypically posit Asian-Americans as a model minority**
**Goshert 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Goshert, Professor of English at Utah Valley University, B.A.and M.A. from Sonoma State University Ph.D. in English from Purdue University“ ‘Frank Chin Is Not A Part of This Class!’ Thinking at the Limits of Asian American Literature” by John Goshert Purdue University, Jouvert Volume 4, Issue 3, May, 2000, online, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://english.chass.ncsu.edu/jouvert/v4i3/gosher.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

__Reflecting the movement or the tensions marking the play of identity in the immediate and__
__AND__
__marginal writing that has been suggested by Spivak's work on feminism and postcoloniality.__

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Banquets CP</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Shell</span>== 

**Text: IF you choose to make this debate about whiteness then you should vote to endorse that tournaments schedule banquets to exclusively focus on whiteness**

**Developing banquets at tournaments fosters broad community participation, which creates the foundation for instilling real change in the debate community**
**Atchison and Panetta, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334)</span>

__Tournaments____<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that</span>____already have banquets scheduled present an easy <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">opportunity</span>for the beginnings of community__
AND
__discussion session would serve to maximize a shared community experience for the debaters.__

**Using one debate as the basis for change fails – not enough community participation**
**Atchison and Panetta, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This section will address the "debate as activism ~ perspective that argues that the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">debate with so few participants is the best strategy for addressing important problems.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">States CP</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC Shell (Inland Waterways)</span>== 

**Text: The United States federal government should devolve all control over inland waterways to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on inland waterways to the states. The 50 states and all relevant territories should substantially increase their inland waterways and port infrastructure modernization investment.**

**The states can develop inland waterways so much better.**
**Heim and Tedesco 9**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Heads of General Dynamics NASSCO, a major ship design, construction, and repair company located in San Diego (Aimee and Matt, “A Shipbuilder’s Assessment of America’s Marine Highways”, July 30, 2009, http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf)//NJain</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">State & Local Involvement </span>

__Direct investment in shipyards and tax incentives to facilitate the capital investments that would result__
__AND__
__advocating for labor rates separate from labor rates applied to international shipping containers.__
==1NC Shell (Devolution Inland Waterways)== 
**Text: The United States Supreme Court should overrule Gibbons v. Ogden as it applies to inland waterways and state that the 50 states and territories of the United States have the authority and obligation to modernize all inland waterways that fall in their respective territories. The 50 states, relevant territories and the District of Columbia should substantially increase their investments to modernize inland waterways infrastructure.**

**Previous precedent proves the counterplan is feasible- the counterplan overrules the Court case that prevents it**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stern 12</span> — **that’s your 1AC author** (Congressional Research Service, Anaylst in Natural Resources Policy, April 12, “Inland waterways: recent proposals and issues for congress”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf]]</span>, pg. 1)
Through the early 1800s, inland waterway development was left to the states, until
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">remain a significant component in the nation’s transportation mix for many bulk commodities. </span>

**Turning over the authority and jurisdiction solves— Federal port and waterway projects are hugely inefficient**
**Edwards, 12** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– Chris, director of tax policy studies at Cato, former senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee (“Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers,” Cato, March 2012, </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Overview The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is a federal agency that </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Department of the Interior and the civilian side of the Corps closed down.</span>
==1NC Shell (Dredging)== 
**Text: The United States federal government should devolve all control over the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on ports to the states. The 50 states and all relevant territories should appropriate al allocated and future funds in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to dredge nearly all ports to 56 feet in depth.**

**States can do the plan – report from Army Corps proves**
**AP 6/22** – associated press (The Associated Press, “Price tag to dredge Eastern ports for big ships: $5 billion”, 6/22/12, [[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-06-21/southern-ports-expansion/55746890/1]]) // CB

__The Southeast,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forecast to undergo the nation's biggest growth in population and trade, </span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">charge shippers and could borrow from a federal infrastructure bank for major projects.</span>
=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Role of Ballot PIC</span>= 

==**1NC Shell**== 
**We advocate the entirety of the 1AC without the role of the ballot claim**

**The call for the judge to evaluate the debate with a specific “role of the ballot” ignores the complexity of decision-making and demands the judge ignore his/her life experiences and agency**
**Wordlaw 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wardlaw, Kim McLane, Circuit Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, 2010, “Umpires, Empathy, and Activism: Lessons from Judge Cardozo”, Notre Dame Law Review) FS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Judge Cardozo recognized that </span>__the law is not always a strike zone;__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__when those life experiences facilitate one’s ability to understand the circumstances of others.__

**Removing the judge’s personal agency prevents empathy so perspective-taking becomes impossible— That’s an independent net benefit to the counterplan— only a purely imaginative discourse allows empathy**
**Nielson and Weinberg 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nielson, Laura Beth, Associate Professor of Sociology and Law & Director of Legal Studies at Northwestern, and Weinberg, Jill D., MA from U. Chicago and PhD candidate at Northwestern, 2012, “EXAMINING EMPATHY: DISCRIMINATION, EXPERIENCE, AND JUDICIAL DECISIONMAKING”, Southern California Law Review, Vol. 85:313, [[http://weblaw.usc.edu/why/students/orgs/lawreview/documents/SCalLRev85_Weinberg.pdf]]) FS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although judges may decide cases mechanically or politically,</span> __the empathetic perspective suggests that judges__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">group.40 Often these differences are based on race41 and gender42 categories.</span>

**Loss of empathy prevents understanding the narratives and perspectives of others—Turns the case**
**Nielson and Weinberg 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nielson, Laura Beth, Associate Professor of Sociology and Law & Director of Legal Studies at Northwestern, and Weinberg, Jill D., MA from U. Chicago and PhD candidate at Northwestern, 2012, “EXAMINING EMPATHY: DISCRIMINATION, EXPERIENCE, AND JUDICIAL DECISIONMAKING”, Southern California Law Review, Vol. 85:313, [[http://weblaw.usc.edu/why/students/orgs/lawreview/documents/SCalLRev85_Weinberg.pdf]]) FS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the disparities in summary judgment outcomes, how can we promote an agenda of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__recognize more nuanced, situational narratives that are distinct from their own__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.115</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">China CCS CP</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 
**Text: The United States federal government should invest in carbon capture and sequestration technology with the People’s Republic of China**

**CCS certainty is key to US-China cooperation— That solves China war**
Peter <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Drahos</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor in Law and the Director of the Centre for the Governance of Knowledge and Development in the Regulatory Institutions Network (RegNet), College of Asia and the Pacific, at the Australian National University, Canberra. He currently holds a Chair in Intellectual Property at Queen Mary, University of London, 09, [“The China-US Relationship on Climate Change, ¶ Intellectual Property and CCS: Requiem for a ¶ Species,” Queen Mary University of London, School of Law ¶ Legal Studies Research Paper No. 36/2009, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1504246]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] E. Liu</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are three distinct international regimes that the US and China have to think¶</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">less true of old world clubs¶ like the IEA and the OECD.</span>

**Specifically, it solves CCP instability— Clean coal is key to social benefits, equality, environmental legitimacy, and perception of prosperity**
David **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wendt</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">co-founded the Jackson Hole Center for Global Affairs in 2002 and has ¶ been its president since that time, leader in a U.S. bicentennial program on global interdependence at the World ¶ Affairs Council of Philadelphia (1975-77); a program on global health, population, and ¶ environmental issues at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in ¶ Washington, D.C. (1977-98); and the international program of Idaho State University, in ¶ Pocatello, Idaho (1998-2006), 8-08, [“CLEAN COAL: ¶ U.S.-CHINA COOPERATION ¶ IN ENERGY SECURITY,” EastWest Institute, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=104337]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] E. Liu</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A very different approach toward the pricing of environmental externalities will ¶ be needed if</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
a shared energy future but also of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">shared perceptions of economic ¶ prosperity</span>.

==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NR Solvency**</span>== 
**Technology exists now– can begin capture immediately and sequestration is currently economical**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller et al 9</span>** – PhD, Associate Director, Energy Institute Senior Research Associate Energy Fuels
Bruce, “Eliminating CO2 Emissions from Coal-Fired Power Plants,” in Generating Electricity in a Carbon-Constrained World, Google Book
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Underground injection of CO2 is feasible today</span> at an affordable price. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thus, there</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
it is clear that these could also be decarbonized in a similar manner.

**CCS injection provides enough gas for over 200 years**
Hongguan **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yua</span>**, School of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Shandong University of Science and Technology, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">et al.,</span> Guangzhu Zhou, Weitang Fan, Jianping Ye, 11-29-**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06,</span>** [“Predicted CO2enhanced coalbed methane recovery¶ and CO2sequestration in China,” International Journal of Coal Geology 71 (2007) 345–357, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.math.oregonstate.edu/~mpesz/download/coal/Yu_2007ECBM_CHINA.pdf]]</span>] E. Liu
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(1) </span>The factors obtained with <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">technical analysis</span> and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>basic case assumptions are reasonable and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">can</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(2) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
(3) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">potential obtained by</span> primary <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">production of CBM¶ </span>and enhanced CBM using CO2injection.

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Privatization CP</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 
**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over MagLev rail to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on MagLev rail to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in MagLev rail**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership of MagLev rail to the private sector.**



**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]</span>

Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing The U.S. economy needs infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, but </span>state<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">traffic control system, as Canada has done with very favorable results.31</span>

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]</span>. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)DH
Do the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">current </span>problems with the transportation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> system </span>suggest that the nation should find a
AND
a new approach to transportation policy that could significantly improve the system’s performance.


**2 net benefits –**

**1. productivity – federal planning undermines productivity because it can’t accurately respond to price signals. Private decision making more efficiently allocates resources tailored to economic need**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the description of today's hearing, the committee asked how infrastructure helps to promote</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 billion for housing, and $3.5 billion for airports.</span>

**2. Innovation – federal planning doesn’t accurately target infrastructure development to best meet economic need – mismanagement deepens economic problems**
**Norcross and Sautet, 9** – both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Eileen and Frederic, “THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT: Will More Public Spending Pave the Way to a Better Infrastructure?” SSRN)DH

Infrastructure development is not the cause of economic growth, but rather a consequence.
AND
Consumers don’t obtain what they need and don’t pay for what they consume.

==AT: Permutation== 
**Expands public sector inefficiency – this puts more burdens on the private sector, increasing the likelihood of failure**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 155-156)//DH

Policymakers<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>are<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> currently </span>focused on national fundraising<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> strategies for infrastructure investments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">increase Americans' satisfaction with how they and their goods move throughout the country.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Any government intervention distorts the market – full privatization solves better**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">DeHaven, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> budget analyst on federal and state budget issues for the Cato Institute (Tad, “Why Not Private Infrastructure,” Downsizing the Federal Government, 9/8/10, http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/why-not-private-infrastructure)//AM</span>
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> biggest </span>obstacle to private provision is that federal funding<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and associated privileges </span>makes it 
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is exactly where the special interests they bemoan would like them to stay</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**Any government subsidies reduce private returns on investment – decreasing the amount of investment the permutation can attract**
**de Rugy, 12** – senior fellow of the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Veronique, “A Guarantee for Failure: Government Lending Under Sec. 1705”, 7/18, [[http://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/de-Rugy-Testimony.pdf)//DH]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More important, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">once the </span>government subsidizes a portion of the market<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the object </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
focus from the needs of the customer to the wishes of government officials<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Geoengineering CP</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 

**Text<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span>The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should adopt a policy that dismisses sulfate aerosols into the stratosphere to enhance the quasi-cooling mechanism as per the climate model CM2.**


**CP solves warming-volcanoes prove**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Stenchikov et al ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ]L.; Ramaswamy, V.; Delworth, T. L.; Stouffer, R. J. Use of Volcanic Eruptions as a Natural Analog for Evaluating Effectsof Stratospheric Geoengineering on the Hydrological Cycle, OceanHeat Content, and Sea Level American Geophysical Union, Fall Meeting 2008, abstract #U41E-06]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Large-scale human intervention into natural systems</span>**__, geoengineering, is considered as a__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__quasi-permanent cooling from geoengineering aerosols penetrate into the deep ocean__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>